ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73677	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. We continue with the work of the announced agenda point - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Labour Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 811 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Tourism. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Tourism and the Club of HNS Representatives, HSU. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr Kresimir Rogman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73678	Honorable Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. After the adoption of the Labour Act with effect from 1.1.2010, it has been demonstrated in practice that some of the provisions of the law, primarily those concerning working time, are in line with the relevant European Union Directive to create permanent practical problems both for employers and workers. This has led to amendments and additions to this law in cooperation with the social partners, although it is precisely the initiative of the social partnerships. I must also stress this on the initiative in line with the employers' initiative, so the Croatian Employers' Association and the trade unions that are associated with these five union centres. Therefore, amending and supplementing the law would allow for a more flexible use of working time in the first place and address some more issues that should be better addressed, such as some provisions on annual holidays and the way in which they are fired in case of professional inability to work. These changes will be important for more activities, and in line with what is foreseen as exceptions, the possibility of a more flexible use of working time, a directive on certain aspects of the organisation's working time. In particular, the law would allow for more flexible use of the Institute of Working Time in that part of night work. As you know, now the night worker can work for 8 hours, which means 8 hours a night, because night work can never last longer than 8 hours for full-time workers, but that means it can also work at night for 4 hours and leave him only four hours of work per day, so within 24 hours. This change would allow this work to last for 12 hours, so by night to 8 o'clock, or 3 or 5 or 4 and the rest per day, or of course 8 per night or 4 per day. Apparently, this is not a major change, however, it has proved to be very important for employers, the organisation of working hours, and also for workers whose representatives are, trade unions specifically asked for it to enable the work on shifts, i.e. as popularly called in 12 hours of work tours and 24 holidays, then 12 hours of work 48 hours of rest and for those workers of course whose work partially includes nighttime. It would also amend the provision of legislation relating to the schedule of working time for shift workers. Under the current provision of such work it is possible to keep working hours flexible in such a way as to allow the monthly entry of full fund hours from +/- 12 hours which after 4 months draws a line and solves it in a way if there were less hours it goes to the employer's burden, if there were more workers to be paid as overtime work. Now those 12 hours would rise to 24 hours, which would take 12 hours, because 12 hours was enough just to make up for maybe one shift, if someone was missing, and 24 hours would be two shifts. Of course, we speak at the monthly level, which then disappears after every four months. The issue of redistribution of working hours would also be resolved where a greater redistribution of working hours would be possible than so far. Thus far, according to the law of redistribution can be up to 48 hours a month for a total of 4 months of longer work or up to 56 hours if it is agreed by a collective agreement and if the worker gives written consent. It is now proposed that this redistribution in seasonal affairs may be up to 60 hours a week and that the longer time, the longer working period may be up to 6 months, but also on two conditions: if this is agreed by a collective agreement and if the worker has given his written consent. I note that the consent of workers stems from the directive, as set out in the provision of Article 22. It's a directive. The issue of keeping records of workers working through the Agency for Temporary Employment would also be resolved. Namely, the employee records and working hours must be kept by that agency. However, how it can happen that there is a large and spatial and technical distance from these workers from the agency, the Agency and the user, therefore the one where workers work in fact can enter into an agreement that the user keeps records of the employees of the agency. Finally, two other provisions that go towards one technical improvement would be resolved. One provision concerning annual holidays, which would explain what is now being interpreted and which is logically undeniable, that, when changing employers during one year, the worker has the right to an annual vacation, of course it is not disputed, but cannot have the right to more vacations than it is full vacations or proportions if he has worked shorter periods of time. So, it can't happen that he works with two employers for six months, so two of them have a full vacation. So, there... And the last provision that changes that is not related to working hours but represents one legal-technical improvement in one of the failures that was within the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's about a job failure situation that has a professional inability to work. I remind such a worker can be cancelled exceptionally if the employer can't find other jobs at all. If necessary, it must change both the organisation and the like, and even then the employer cannot resign without the consent of the working council or the trade union commissioner. If there is no working council or trade union commissioner, if the working council or the union commissioner deprives the consent of such a Registrar of a court decision. However, the law stated that if a working council is to deny consent or if there is no working council, it is to be replaced by a judicial decision. The court ruling, therefore, can only make up for the negative decision given by the working council and cannot make up for the non-existent decision. So if the working council doesn't have any decision, there isn't, and there's no one who can be sad. Therefore, in the legal sense and in respect of the provisions of procedural law, this was not at all enforceable and, therefore, the provision is now being resolved in the same way as it was in the law, the former Labour Act. If a working council has denied consent or a union commissioner who replaces it, it shall make up for a judicial decision. And in the end, I have one important note to make. This proposal amends and complements the Labour Act is fully in line with the social partners. Therefore, with trade unions and employers and also fully confirmed by the European Commission, which has not had a single remark on these amendments concerning the exceptions to the directive, which we certainly hold important. The emergency procedure is proposed to comply with the directive. Because all of these provisions concerning working hours also make it possible to comply with the directive in the first place with the exceptions provided for in this Directive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73679	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, a notice that will probably happen again and later when we're a little bit more. So, I ask the club leaders to ensure the presence of representatives and representatives today at 1600 hours due to an important addition to the agenda. And secondly, to ensure also tomorrow because of the vote on some of the European Commission's laws, it actually wants them to get in line with the ZUP as soon as possible to bring them into the House in order to measure this positively. In fact, it is a minor technical amendment of 13 regulations that we have already discussed 9 and still remains to discuss 4 and conclude the debate. Namely, the boards should meet today, this morning for two of these laws, and then the other two laws somewhere in the break. It is the Laws on Educational Inspection, the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, and the Law on Officials and Landowners in the Local, Regional (regional) Self-Geodetic Activity Act. So it's more about technical changes and alignment with the ZUR, the ZUP actually. I ask you for understanding in this respect, because it is still very important that in time some of us meet some of the criteria, and there is no reason not to meet them if we are almost here from the 13 laws of 9 already discussed, so tomorrow we will vote on them. And that's why I'm asking you today to be at 4:00 today and certainly tomorrow because of what I've explained, you need not only an addition to the agenda but also a vote on the points that have been crossed. And besides, we can't get below 60 points of the agenda, because as we discuss 10 or 12 points, or 15, then more of them add up. But these are the times when we have to do things a little bit faster. So I'm asking for your understanding in this regard, here. So today at 4:00. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73680	If you could perhaps give us a few points to discuss?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73681	We'll have over 80 points on the agenda tomorrow if we finish something today and tomorrow, and that's very little. So we'll always stay somewhere between 60 and 80 points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73682	But if we could get a order of some of the points that we can...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73683	Although some of these laws are really brief discussions and there is no need for a big debate. But we have to put them on and discuss them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73684	And this constitutional law, constitutional initiatives, if that could be on the agenda?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73685	I don't understand anything because here... It's ringing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There you go, thank you very much. And now please do there, do the committee rapporteur want to take a word on this agenda point? Mr. Boris Kunst on behalf of the President of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73686	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So at its 56th session held on 18 May this year, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act is fully taking over the legal property of the European Union in the field of labour legislation. He stressed that the proposed amendments and additions were made in the cooperation of the social partners, so that the proposed solutions were in line with the representatives of the trade unions and employers, and the European Commission had no objections. The proposed amendments and additions relate to more flexible work-time arrangements. It shall then allow for a greater deviation from full-time in the event of an unequal duration of weeks in the application of the working time schedule institute. Furthermore, the Institute of Re-distribution of Working Time has been amended in such a way that it does not have to be arranged at the level of the calendar year, but in a period that cannot be longer than 12 continuous months, which it does not have to, it does not necessarily have to be in the calendar year. The applicant also stressed that the amendments and additions relating to the Institute of Working Time are also linked to achieving a degree of compliance with Directive 2088 of the European Community, on certain types of organisation of working time, in a way that is now incorporated into national legislation and possible derogations prescribed by the Directive. Furthermore, the proposer pointed out that part of the amendments to the law relate to the removal of the ambiguities that occurred during the current application of the law, and in particular its implementing rules on the keeping of various records, as well as to the more precise arrangements of the annual leave institute. The debate has repeatedly highlighted that all the proposed amendments and additions have been brought into line and are the fruit of social partners' co-operation. Also in the debate, the promoter explained issues relating to the position of oil workers, then to the agency that gives up workers, and workers who have a professional inability to work. And after such a debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73687	Thank you. Is there any more interest by the board? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73688	Once again, I welcome everyone together. And before I start, I must stress that the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the proposed amendments and additions to the Labour Act. And now for more on these changes and additions. During the application of the Labour Act adopted at the end of 2009, some provisions in the first row on working time in practice have been shown to create constant difficulties. Therefore, this proposal is also prepared to amend and supplement laws, which are the product of agreed normative solutions, between representatives of representative trade unions and the Croatian Employers' Association. It enables more flexible use of working time, but in a way that corresponds to both workers and employers, e.g. the ability to work on shifts of 12 hours, either 8 hours at night and 4 hours a day, or it can do so vice versa, or other combinations, and the condition is that all these are negotiated by collective agreement, which guarantees additional safety for workers, and then changes the provisions on redistribution of working time, schedule of working time, some specific provisions on working time records, and others. These changes will allow for more flexible use of working time in those activities in which it is important, in particular I think about tourism, agriculture, those all jobs in which they persist, such as press, radio, television, cinematographers, post office, so many utility companies that carry out certain activities, etc., and that normally in an industry where work cannot be interrupted for technological reasons, etc. It is also important for all those who are doing this change that works in shift work, and this specifically allows for more flexible work-time arrangements in such a way that collective agreements can now be made except for the exceptions to daily and weekly rest, arrangements and exceptions to night work. It shall be possible for agencies to contract, in certain cases, under an agreement on the admission of workers to decommissioned workers, that the user is obliged to keep a prescribed working time record. It also allows for greater deviations from full-time, when using a working-time facility, in such a way that it is now not limited to 12 hours per month, but to 24 hours per month. Changes to the Institute redistribution of working time, in such a way that it does not have to be arranged at the level of the calendar year, but in a period that cannot be longer than 12 continuous months, and is also allowed to redistribute working hours in employers operating seasonally for more than 56 hours a week, but not longer than 60. More precisely, the use of a proportion of annual vacations for workers who work in several employers over the year in such a way as to give each employer the right to part of their annual vacation, relatively time of work. More specifically, the process of cancelling the worker who has a professional incompetence to work, or the immediate danger of disability, is regulated in such a way that the procedure is aligned with the provisions of the litigation procedure, and prescribed by the cancellation procedure for all workers, which does not reduce other labour rights where there is a professional inability to work or a direct risk of disability. The stronger role and the union commissioner is defined in this bill, especially in the absence of the resignation of workers. It is important to stress that these amendments to the Labour Act have also been submitted to the European Commission, which did not have any comments and assessed it as harmonised. And once again, as I said, the Croatian Democratic Community club suggests that such, changes and additions to the Proposal for a Labour Law be passed and adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73689	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Vice-President Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73690	Thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support these amendments and additions to the Labour Act, which are mainly limited to the arrangement and a more flexible way of implementing the Institute of Working Time, as Mr Secretary of State explained. However, we believe in the SDP club that, in the light of the 700 thousand signatures collected, there was a strong impulse to move towards amending the Labour Act, which will be based on a new concept that will strongly position, valorise, and then protect the work. And not just from some normative principles, but above all, the drama experienced by Croatian labor today imposes such a task ahead of all of us. And I think it was time we had a consensus, it was still time to go to such a more powerful change. Namely, one of the bigger problems that man can face today is being a worker in Croatia. Labour insecurity in Croatia has reached a worrying level. Many workers working on underpaid jobs, in dangerous jobs without the necessary protection at work, are forced to accept longer working hours, work overtime, and for which work is often not paid at all. More than 80% of new employees work under contract for a certain time, although job needs require work indefinitely. Thus, employers who themselves operate under significantly worse conditions play the Institute for a certain time, and workers are further facing job uncertainty. In such conditions, fear of losing and such a job raise no questions. They are too weak to seek the achievement of their labour rights and social protection. Again, a growing number of non-paying workers, and foreign employers often behave worse than domestic workers, do not respect our legal system for a simple reason because they can act illegally almost without any sanctions. It is not rare to fire our workers, a qualified workforce with long-term work experience, as a technological surplus to hire foreigners and sometimes black workers. They act like they would never behave like that in their countries of origin from Europe's well-behaved countries with a high tradition of democracy. Why? Because I can't behave like that there. So the incorrect claim has been made that we have to change some sort of our mentality. As we can see, it's never about mentality. It's about a system that allows or tolerates something. The system is always responsible, or people who create such a system or do not change it or deal with such a situation. Why is today a worker often treated as a slave and a consumer slave? We at the SDP club and this occasion point out that SDP will never agree to such treatment of workers. So many unemployed, so they're willing to work for so little pay and so little rights. We simply don't have, and that's why we expected there to be a stronger change, one system of proper evaluation and positioning of work compared to capital. Workers throw themselves away like old, out-of-date machines. On the other hand, pension reform forces them to work almost for the rest of their lives. Society simply has to recognize the value of work because capital does not create a new value but creates work. Our society must be restored, it must be our most obstacles national interest, in its fullness of value such as solidarity, community, and working time, working conditions, protection at work, fair wages are certainly key social issues. In some cases, our media wrote about it, workers did not have a day off for 6 months, and some, there were such cases, and over a year. So, although by law, the existing Labour Act simply does not respect certain protected rights. It's because of this climate, this kind of relationship. And we just have to find the answer to that. Here, if anywhere else then right in labour law, the law is no longer understood as something obvious. This marks in fact one crisis of political reason, political action, as well as the political crisis, or the political crisis as such. It is our job to put power, which is that power of capital, to put it under the protection of rights and in such a way that it is born the right to be made to be a means of righteousness, not the privilege of powerful men to determine what is just. Even then, when we are able to control the state's behavior, they are not brought to life in practice. We at the SDP club don't consider ourselves the only protectors of workers or deny the right for others to do so, but we resent them for not doing so especially when they are in a position to do so. Property, capital has its own obligations. The cooperation of capital and labour creates new values. But he can't have capital without work. The principle of fair division to distribute good things in accordance with the rules of general good and social justice is what must be the basic principles from which new and better labour legislation should arise. So, right where social and legal order protects the performance of work and creates a fair balance between pay itself. The delusions are that all economic relations should be left to the free market, regardless of the state government. It simply ruins the social and moral meaning of economic relations. Competition is certainly necessary and useful, but it cannot fully manage economic relations. The capital, the free market as some kind of blind force, some kind of violent power, have been overrun by the city, the entire management of social relations and society, the government has been called upon to contain such forces. Social justice simply requires it, and it needs to be upgraded to the state institutions through which it will be brought to life. It is precisely that such justice is declared in the Constitution and in this law of ours is effective. It cannot subject the capital of the entire economy to its will, and it is precisely a turning point for its own benefit without regard to the dignity of workers, the social aspect of the economy, even repeating social justice and general good. Because then it would really be a depose of economic predominance and a new totalitarianism of capital. Today, Croatia will become a member of the European Union, and right here at the SDP Club and here in front of Croatian citizens, we promise to encourage the European Social Democracy, which is as if it was afraid of its own principles. These are not old principles, these are always new principles but whose content should be filled and enriched. Especially the almost slave labor of the 20th century can be seen in the store. And it prevails in our economy where it strives precisely with as little cost to achieve in a very short time as possible the greater profit. So we have a big task ahead of us, a difficult task, but there is no obstacle to the task, there is no more important thing for the Croatian government than just these things that we in the SDP Club point out. Right to a fair salary that guarantees the worker the safety and safety of his family, that's something that's basic. We hold in the SDP Club and I think there should be a consensus about it that work is not just an economic issue, it's a question of man's personal values, because man's work creates a new value but it also creates itself. In no way should we touch or neglect, we see that it is completely neglected in the resurrection, we have still changed such laws, so that the worker is as secure in his workplace as possible. So, indulging its working environment and also making production processes such that they do not endanger the physical health of workers or workers or insult or harm their moral integrity. In globalisation, work must be valorised again, we are witnessing the globalisation of capital but we are not witnessing the globalisation of labour and the globalisation of solidarity. The SDP in the conflict therefore does not favour any particular group, but in the conflict of labour and capital, I want to stress it on the labour side. People who live on their own, not on other people's work, but on all those social groups that globalisation marginalizes, that frustrated them and declassify them. The SDP seeks to be their political identification and the possibility of affecting both local and national developments. The uncertainty brought by globalisation is now being imposed by the new affirmation of labour globalisation and the consolidation of social security institutions and mechanisms for its achievement. We are aware of the major and profound changes in the world of work, how to accept them, while safeguarding the safety that guarantees the quality of life and dignity of a person. Surely the answer to these questions is not unambiguous but it is not easy, but we cannot be satisfied that security times have passed. A man can't live, he can't work, he can't create a family, he can't survive unless he has the basic security elements. Uncertainty and constant uncertainty of living beasts or domestic animals. Therefore, we are obliged to provide man with security. The SDP has a view of the achievement of labour rights without some historical sentiments and nostalgia, but it is precisely new circumstances that poses a new challenge to preserve the old traditional values of social justice, equality and solidarity. Getting out of such a framework does not mean undoing the plantings of a good tradition and even less undoing the values marked by a civilizational step in achieving the space of freedom, the values of the European social state and the values of labour participation are not prevailing, they are not yet affirmed at all. So exiting from such frameworks does not mean accepting the aggression of neoliberalism in the field of work, and working relationships but not rejecting the increased developmental opportunities of society. The responsibility for economic growth and development but the overall social development that includes the values of the good and safe lives of our citizens is the central and biggest challenge facing us. Our project, as we see it in the SDP Club, is not the extradition of Croatia and its citizens to a globalised world, but the introduction of elements of this world into a specific area of Croatian society and cultural heritage. Our project is a well-being based on work and creation, creating new jobs, new jobs, but not any job, low paid and unpaid work, humiliated workers and a job that destroys people's dignity, people treated at work as things, without the possibility of participation and decision-making in their work are not part of our project or will ever be. On the contrary, the decent job we stand for means productive and secure work, respect for labour rights, adequate wages, social protection of workers, the possibility of social dialogue, union organisation and participation. That's why the SDP Club referred to Parliament's procedure and the Labour Courts Act, let's remind ourselves of the session of the Economic Social Council where the government promised the unions exactly to trade so there wouldn't be a referendum on those 700 thousand signatures, you promised by ruling, just one more sentence, it's useful because it reminds the government what it has now promised. That he'll pay all outstanding wages immediately, now it's being extended to the 9th month. So, you promise, you just take a lot, you give for the blank, and you make promises for the new government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73691	We have two corrections. First, Mr. Boris Kunst, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73692	Thank you very much, the representative in her poetic enthusiasm for the Labour Law has said a whole series of inaccuracies. I'll just mention one thing says why others don't do it with the SDP to protect the workers. Well, it's a notorious lie, this particular government has never derivated a single contract that has been negotiated with workers or collective contracts. So just when you're talking about worker uncertainty, the SDP government has just introduced the Labour Law into work for a certain period of time. So the bankruptcy law still hunts you down workers of the Zadar Skin Factory for a hand where they seek their justice from 2002 when you changed the bankruptcy law and you transferred the workers to another pay order, so people didn't get neither pay nor severance. Well, that's a notorious lie, what you said, so you changed the law to the harm of the workers and it was a party with a social omen. So it's just that everything you've said can only deceive someone who doesn't remember you from 2002, 2003, even the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73693	We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. I hope she's correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73694	I think it's correct because you can check it in the People's News where the law is published. ... Now I'll tell you what my colleague Kunst said. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the provision of Article 209 has been violated. The businessman where he says that we have made the position of workers worse by amending the Penal Code, we have protected the worker in a way that we have determined that default pay is a criminal offense, that's one. And second of all, as far as the bankruptcy bill is concerned, we're the ones who put the workers in the first payment order. Look at the law that was published in 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73695	Please, so Mr. Kunst tried to correct your claim and say that's not true what you're saying. And now you're polymizing with him by raising a plate of injury to the Businessman. Mr. Kunst didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure in anything. No, I don't. He answered your claim with his claim. In line with everything we've been doing here for 3.5 years. So there's no room for that. We have another correction, Mr. Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73696	Thank you. However, at the end of the day, counterpart Anticevic claimed that the SDP would improve the work and workers, so as if we had a memory, and it is well known that in 2001 they had a chance to do so and they did so and in such a way that they had cut workers' rights, that what is now imputable to the workers in the trade chains until they passed the law could not be exploited so. So I think this is a play for the public and the workers, and I'm sure they have a good memory and they remember SDP's Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73697	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's move on as far as the debate is concerned. But before that, here is a notice from the president of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of Mr. Peter Selem that at 14 o'clock the committee session seems very short in the Chamber of Ivan Kukuljevic. It's 2:00 a.m. today. It is next to the club of HNS, HSU and Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73698	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Act. Of course, since it is as the secretary of state said in the introduction of rather benign changes, the changes agreed between the social partners. In good faith, it will normalise among the social partners in the Republic of Croatia and that the tripartite social dialogue will be more successful in the future than it has ever been. So, not only about the content, because I'm going to make some remarks about the content, in that good faith, we're going to support this bill. But we also have some of our own observations because it is worth looking back in time and the problems we have in this field, therefore, in the world of work. I don't want to keep the tractado and the tract of defiance of workers in Croatia here today, because if I had prepared myself for that, then I'd be nicer, longer and more quality than we'd heard before. I want to talk about this law, about concrete amendments and additions to this law because it is the essence, because it is the content of this debate and it is really worth looking back at these proposed amendments and additions. Not only from the position of their quality, but also from the position of their doubt. In fact, I am sure that these amendments and additions to the Labour Act are made for two reasons. First, there are certain obstacles identified in the implementation of the Labour Act and secondly, it would comply with Directive 2003/88 of the European Commission as regards determining working time. But it's nice just to find out but there's something called but. We should not pass this law at all if a collective bargaining system is developed in Croatia. The majority of what is offered in Europe and based on the second Directive 2008 is envisaged to be negotiated by collective agreements, whether it is a collective contract in general or collective agreements of certain activities. Since we do not have such a system developed, the collective bargaining system, then we must not comply with our Labour Act with Directive 2003 but must bring it into line with the exceptions of Directive 2003 because forgive Directive 2003 says that rest must be 11 hours a day and 35 hours a week. This law states that it must be at least 10 hours a day and 20 hours a week, and this is also foreseen by the exceptions to the directive. So, we are not harmonising our Law on Working with the Directive but with exceptions to the directive which does not have to be for all activities, which could have been established by collective agreements, so by national collective agreement either by general or by border. Furthermore, the Labour Act still has a huge problem with the non-definition of collective bargaining systems, the competitiveness of collective agreements of activity and general, an unregulated system in which everyone competes and usually at a lower level negotiates what has already been negotiated at a higher level, and it is not a rare case that a low-level collective contract derogates someone who has been established by a collective higher-level contract Here we have a problem of applying a collective contract that has not been resolved to all employees and we have an extended duration of collective agreement which is a problem, which is a dispute between employers and trade unions, and especially between the state as employers and trade unions that the same Labour Act had no ambitions to resolve. So I argue that this law is also not the result of bipartitely agreed normative solutions. Bipartite or bilateral dialogue, the result of bipartite negotiations or bilateral social dialogue are always collective agreements. These are the two sides, on the one hand the employer, on the one hand the workers and they make a collective agreement. Every law and this one must be the result of a tripartite social dialogue, at least tripartite in which the state, employers and workers are and I'm not sure it's the role of the state, or I'm sure it's not the role of the state to just implement what employers and trade unions have agreed on. It is not her role to be an arbiter, but to be a facilitator of relations in any case and to assess at that given time whether what is negotiated is harmful or bringing disorder into the legal system. Why am I saying that? I claim this because Article 2 of these amendments states that the agreement allows agencies and users, the agency that gives way to workers, which is new in the Labour Act, and this is the freshest institution, the Labour Act therefore states that the Agency and the user can agree to keep a prescribed record of their working time and the deadline and method of delivery to the Agency for the eligible workers. But look, in articles 24 to 32. The labour law is not an obligation anywhere to keep records of the working time of its workers. So no, I've been checking, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And here it is said that the agency and the user can agree that for the employed employees the user, so the one where the worker works will keep a record of working time and will deliver it to the agency. So there's the role of the state to say wait, this is illogical, here we're negotiating the possibility of someone else keeping a record of working time, and in law, that obligation is not agreed to by the agency at all. I also believe that the role of the State in Article 4 in this paragraph 5 which is amended and reads as saying that, exceptionally from the provision of Article 4 of this paragraph, working hours are redistributed during a period of longer than full or part-time working hours may last more than 48 hours a week, but not more than 56 hours a week or 60 hours a week if the employer operates seasonally provided that the same provision is provided for in a collective contract and that the worker delivers the employer a written declaration of voluntary consent to such work. I ask you, what will happen if the worker here does not deliver the employer a written declaration of voluntary consent to work, and on the other hand, the collective contract obliges him because the collective contract provides that he works. So we have one situation, a collective agreement arises by consent or by giving consent to the union to negotiate on my behalf and the provisions of the collective agreement bind me as an individual. So why do we have a double standard? I understand why because the directive says that a worker has to make a written statement and that should have been enough, but our unions now want to write a collective contract, but there's the role of the state to say listen or we will either, or we will, we can't create later problems. Because on the one hand, we are also dealing with Article 7 where the same situation was when replacing the dismissal with a court or arbitration decision, so we have the same or similar case. Furthermore, the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party have three amendments, one related to this article 47, in which the redistribution of weekly working hours increases from 56 to 60 hours and it would be logical for the promoter to accept that the redistribution time also increases from 6 to 8 months, as shown by tourist workers and the Trade Workers' Union, for one simple reason, we do not have all the institutes as Europe has. We have an institute that Europe doesn't know, it's a constantly employed season institute. It is our wetlands, but the fact is that it exists in our legislation and in the tourism economy such a worker with such status exists. So I think it would be correct to change here in paragraph 8 and say that the redistribution time can be the longest of eight months, precisely because we have extended the week's working time for season work of 56 we have allowed it to be 60 hours. Furthermore, in Article 5(7), we propose an amendment, which reads as follows: Exceptionally from the provision of paragraph 6 of this article, the work of the workers referred to in paragraph 5 of this Article may take longer than 8 hours, but no longer than 12 hours a day, provided that the same is agreed by a collective agreement. Look, I'm going back to our defect in collective bargaining. The law provides a framework, a collective contract gives reasons when working time can be introduced longer than planned. So the collective contract gives reasons to make exceptions. Therefore, we are making an amendment that, that this item reads yes, but no longer than 12 hours a day, provided that the collective agreement lays down the reasons for the introduction of longer working time, not at all, since this is a specific collective contract which will be concluded between a particular employer and a particular trade union in different activities and different activities can establish different conditions for prescribing working time longer than is necessary. I also believe that Article 6 which speaks of the proportionate use of the annual vacation is too widespread, too much to say, that part of it would be enough to say that in three cases if the worker had not worked for more than 6 months, if his working relationship had ceased before 1 July or if, in the year in which he founded the working relationship had less than 6 months, he had the right to a proportionate part of his vacation, or 1/12 for each month of work. All this other stuff is details that could be solved by collective agreement. Once again, I say we lack a very general collective agreement where these particulars could be broken down. And in the absence of this and the lack of will to regulate the system of collective bargaining, we deal with constant amendments and additions to the Labour Act. But we are willing to help with the amendments to make this as high-quality as possible. We will support the law, so the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian party of pensioners will support this law. I hope that also the legislator of this law in good faith will have an understanding of our amendments because they are aimed exclusively at improving the functioning of the entire system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73699	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73700	Well, my colleague Hrelja said these were Benign changes. Then he said some more inaccuracies that these changes and additions are not exactly in full agreement with the social partners, etc. Well, these aren't Benign changes from colleagues to Hrelja, not by any chance. Well, you were on the board yesterday. You have seen that social partners, and in particular ask the workers, since these changes particularly address the issue of more flexible work-time arrangements. Well, especially with regard to the redistribution of working hours, especially for those workers who worked at night, etc. It's not benign. It's very important to them. And therefore, the trade unions pointed out yesterday that they were able to reach maximum agreement with employers on these amendments and additions to the Labour Act. So it was even on the board yesterday. I mean, there's no need to say it's benign.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73701	It's up to IDS Club and Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73702	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. So let me first perhaps quote this part of the reasoning where it is said here that, following the above conclusion, the social partners continued the talks and the process of agreeing on some disputed law institutes. So, after all, the social partners have agreed here. And what is certainly important is that this law or maybe it is the most important, I quote: in the prescribed activities you do not necessarily have to work in eight-hour daily work but the work can be organised on schedule means 12, 24, 12 and 48 hours, respectively. Of course one of these is more than logical. Why? Because there's a whole series of activities when it's necessary to actually extend whether or not I know about a season that everyone mentioned less. So this work in tourism, in catering, but also in a whole series of other activities when it's necessary to do some work, for example, on time. It's clear that every job there is to be paid. It doesn't have any dilemma. If you pay for the work, it's clear that you can expect people to do the job properly, that they'll work. And if you can't pay people, then don't fool them because someone's going to say and bankruptcy is the solution. A clear bankruptcy is always a bad solution under quotes, but it's like such a solution. Article 1 is made more clear here as to which these workers are or which is the work which can be clearly extended for 8 hours. So the work of port workers, airports, press-related services, radio-television, cinematography, mail, electronic communication, emergency assistance absolutely logical, firefighting, civil protection. We had a situation where firefighters couldn't work for more than 8 hours in some cases and normal fire doesn't ask how much fire they're gonna burn, or how much work they're gonna do. It needs to be shut down. So here is the mention of production, transmission, gas distribution, electricity, domestic waste collection, and then the industry in which work cannot be interrupted because of technological development, research and development activities, the activities of transporting passengers in urban transport, agriculture, tourism, etc. etc. Clearly, the emphasis in this article 1 is right on the collective agreement. It is understandable that unions insist that it is not bad on that collective contract and because de facto union I dare say outside state companies, i.e. outside the large privatised means that the system is almost non-existent, and if outside such systems, membership is constantly scarred which is not good and for the new employees in the small private sector, these workers are hardly even thinking under quotes about joining the union. But something else is also important in this bill. They're dragon sentences. For example, penalties from 61000 to 100000 kuna for infringements for certain infringements, which, if not conducted, have taken the obligation to keep records of working time, etc. Secondly, it is clear that all of us, I suppose, or I will say this, are no one who prefers me to have the most possible protection in Croatia today, that they have the right, that they have the protection they had at the time, that I don't know socialism, the other Tito, but it was clear then everything was state-owned, so there were workers in these state-owned companies who were maximum protected, as they were around today protected in state-owned companies. True, in 2011, we have one category of people who may be in a worse position than the workers themselves, these are these little craftsmen, small merchants, those who are starting to create a job, so they form some d.o.o. and so on. Why, especially those small craftsmen in a worse situation than workers, because they match their entire assets, so in case I don't know how to collect certain claims, they can say so overnight without everything that generations have created unlike limited liability societies, where individuals correspond to the foundation of that basic capital of 18 or 20 thousand kuna. However, I fear that the economic opportunities in this country will be worse, but better, and that the position of workers may well be further, regardless of the legal standards. I'm afraid that Croatia will be in a relatively fast situation maybe, like Greece, Serbia, Hungary calls the IMF, Croatia is the country of the worst economic parameters in Europe, clearly without this president who is somewhere on an island near Manhattan, New York or where he is already, I don't know Strauss as it is already called no, Croatia's gross social product falls if I'm not mistaken for three years in a row, industrial production is falling on us gentlemen 12 months in a row, in 2010 I said that in more times the foreigners invested only 460m euros in Croatia, 2009. 2 billion, in 2008, as many as 4 billion, just there we lost to subinvesting 50 thousand jobs, all leading to a deficit this year not of 15, but 20 billion kuna, all going to be bigger presses to the state, look what happened in the shipbuilding, maybe later we'll talk about this law of a heavy 11 point I don't know 3 billion kuna. In the last days of 2010, the external debt amounted to 338 billion kuna, and the gross social product 334 billion kuna, so for the first time it happened that the public debt was larger than gross product, only last year we were in debt for 24 billion, this year we will, meaning that this public system could work, be in charge of 30 billion kuna, and in all respect of this, Croatia is classified as 18th place in the world by the World Bank's risk of bankruptcy. Now, if that's the case, I said yes, it might actually be worse than better. All these economic parameters will flow to a much more flexible working time than what we have now, and perhaps in due course to even more flexible labour legislation. However, it is clear, however, that this small step towards something better to regulate relations, when we talk about this work, should be supported, but I think that this law is exclusively written for large companies, for state-owned companies, for public companies, for monopolys, for transformed companies, but then man asks himself the question of what is with those small companies, especially in the context of this Article 7 where the union commissioner, the working council, etc. In small companies, gentlemen in this country no one cares, at least the legislator takes care of the large capital, no matter who is in power, the workers, and yes or no, and these small companies are unfortunately not taken care of, as if they are contagious and in them I say the most honest relationship to work, these people have not converted anything, they have not simply privatised anything, and they are trying to position themselves on the market as best they can and know. 50 of Croatia's largest companies have approximately, let's release the public sector now, with 50% of the fiscal capital. The remaining 250 companies with about 25% of the capital that employs 100,000 people, and 200 thousand who trade, which limited liability societies, are pushed into 25% of that fiscal capacity and employ almost 800 thousand people. It means that 300 to 500 major companies control 75% of the fiscal capacity, and these 200 thousand that trade, which the remaining limited liability companies are pushed into those 25%, these first employ up to 200 thousand, and these up to 800 thousand workers. I think it was also not the same to privatize, so continue business or start from nothing, open up a small company and simply try to perform on the market. I'm going to say once again, I agree this law should be supported because of this more flexible working time. I also agree with Ingrid, who had previously said and wondered why the unions that launched the referendum eventually gave up, and they collected over 700 thousand signatures. Right, the problem with the contract at a certain time, which some have mentioned, is a huge problem, 90 percent of the people de facto find a job that way. But once again I want to repeat that small craftsmen, that small employers, that small merchants etc., are often in a worse position than workers. Or, you could say, our workers are best protected in state-owned companies, in utility companies owned by any state, clearly local self-government. If people were asked where they wanted to work today, everyone would have absolutely no exceptions at this time of crisis chosen either by the state or by the municipal one, meaning local companies. Clearly, workers should be protected. God forbid they're as protected as they were in socialism, but once again I'm going to tell these small companies they might be in a worse situation than anyone in that labour market right now. Each, I dare say representative, minister, the secretary of state would have to run a small company and then see what it looks like and thus prove itself parallelly and thus also in the business of which the Croatian state or public or politics trusts. For the end, I absolutely advocate the maximum safety of every job, but this will only be possible when Croatia recovers economically. And I'm afraid, I said, it'll be sooner and worse than better. So, I stand for a well-protected worker, for honest legislation, for a strong union, for a union movement anyway, for owners who will not be marginalized by government measures and clearly for a socially sensitive state, but what economic opportunities, what economic parameters are we afraid of so nearly cannot be expected in this country. As far as the law is concerned, the flexibility of working time makes sense that it should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73703	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić first.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73704	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I think it's necessary to correct the incorrect allegations that my colleague Cain has been saying over and over again that it's going to be worse than better. For two reasons, this assumption is incorrect. First, it won't be worse than we believe it'll be better. And secondly, how can it be worse first? Well you can never be first up, you should always put in the first place better, and then worse. And then at the end of the plea from all of us here from this neighborhood of HDZ to really spare us the memories, the regular mention of a notorous communist criminal who from Istria to Dubrovnik, from Vukovar to Sibenik, turned us into black hundreds of thousands of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73705	Correction, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73706	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Cain, I also noticed this allegation, he said that economic opportunities would be worse. Inaccurate is the alleged dear colleague, so in these months, the unemployment rate has shown that the Economic Recovery Programme has produced results. And the most cautious experts predict that GDP growth will mean 1.5 maybe 2%. So, the investment cycle is on track, and all these things give us the right, so the opportunities are going to get better anyway. But you're a colleague of your own, you've cried again for socialism and other Tito, so how good it was for our workers this might confirm that several hundred thousand went to the white world to look for a job on those occasions that you say are good. Well, you say all sorts of things in your nonsense, but I suggest you do a little less corn so you don't wake up your coalition partner, Radiir Cacic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73707	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73708	How much worse was it when you talk about people leaving this country? Two and a half million workers used to work in this country, today they're not made by a million and 500 thousand. How come you just don't understand and you don't see what's going on and where the team in power leads the country? Two years ago, the decline in gross products was 5.8%, last year 2%. God forbid it's 1% this year, but it's going to be about 8% smaller than it was three years ago. You've led the country to the bottom, give it a confession once, and as long as it is, the country can only scratch. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73709	And that's what you call a breach of the Rules of Procedure? First of all, you did not specify the number of articles of the Rules of Procedure that were injured. Secondly, you spoke, you debated, and you did not specify what the Rules of Procedure was hurt in at all. If that happens again, I'll have to tell you the appropriate reminders here and so on because the abuse of this has crossed every line of breach of the Rules of Procedure, each line has crossed. Thank you. And now I'm going to announce that at 10.50, it's time to sign up for 10 minutes, so we're going to conclude a debate with Mr. Stanko Grcic on behalf of the HSS club and then move on to an individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73710	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. As we heard in the opening statement, it is a matter of minor amendments to the Labour Act. We at the HSS Club believe that even the small changes agreed, and they are compromiseable and as we have heard acceptable solutions, that they are still a shift in the interests of workers and the achievement of social rights, so here we will also support this bill. These amendments and additions to the Labour Act brought before us by several newspapers that primarily relate to the more flexible arrangement of the Institute of Working Time. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The labour law allows the collective contract to regulate exceptions to the application of the provisions on the duration of work of the night worker for adult persons. The law also prescribes activities in which night workers do not necessarily have to work in eight-hour daily work. In addition, full-time derogations shall be allowed in the event of an unequal duration of weeks and the institute of redistribution of working hours has been amended. These amendments and additions to the Labour Act relating to the Institute of Working Time are in fact in line with Directive 2003/88. The European Commission. These amendments shall aim to correct certain shortcomings in keeping records of posted workers, and in particular the provisions on annual vacation in particular on the right to exchange part of the annual vacation of workers working with several employers during the calendar year. Furthermore, the applicant has seen the inability to apply Article 79(3). The labour law which stipulates that a worker who has a professional incompetence to work or a direct risk of disability may be cancelled with the consent of a working council or judicial or arbitration decision unless there is no working council. It has been established that the employer will not be able to request that the consent of the working council replace the judicial or arbitration decision, given that there is no passively legitimate party or body which may be in the role of the defendant. This amendment shall, above all, be the result of horizontal alignment with the rules on litigation of proceedings and shall also remove the collation with the provisions of the Labour Act which prescribes the possibility of regular termination of the employment contract in the case of workers not being able to carry out their labour obligations properly because of certain permanent features or abilities. Finally, we consider it necessary to highlight the fact that the applicant points out in the opening statement that the creation of the Law included social partners and that no consensus was reached on all open issues, which is why the Government has concluded that it obliges all participants to make this regulation that, even after the entry into force of these amendments, social dialogue is continued in order to deal with open issues and to propose amendments and amendments to the Labour Act. The promoter also points out that the agreed normative solutions are acceptable to union representatives and the Croatian Employers' Association and therefore the Croatian Peasants' Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73711	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate, the first gentleman to represent Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73712	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Some 6, 7 months ago, the government had a proposal to amend the Labour Act and after already known events had pulled it out of the procedure and then it was publicly said to go to write a new Labour Act. Instead of the new Labour Act, the Government comes with amendments and it is relatively small to boast that an agreement has been reached on the content of these changes by all social partners. We heard on behalf of HDZ that even the European Commission is satisfied with these amendments to the Law. I believe that they are satisfied and I have no reason not to believe that the content of these changes has been agreed among the social partners, however, how much these amendments to the Labour Act will give workers greater security or they will be more protected from early work. If someone doesn't know, I want to point out that there is a huge problem in Croatia that overtime workers are not paid. How much more protective workers will now be than the introduction of night labor or work on Sundays beyond all regulations. Especially in shop and catering. Whether these changes to the Labour Act will make it impossible for capitalists not to pay salaries or not to pay social contributions. Will these changes to the Labour Act now make at least a slight shift so that women do not work every Sunday of the calendar year. And they have to work because otherwise they get fired. I understand that in this neoliberal capitalism I prefer to call it savage capitalism, all Croatian governments have so far stood on the side of the interest of the capital owner. However, about two weeks ago, counterpart Maric, speaking of another topic, I must quote him, said the role of the state is that it must correct market irregularities, defects and failures that the market brings with it, that it is an obligation for the state to bring justice to the market. The labour market is one of the important three segments of the market and, of course, the laws of the market bring with them a number of failures, defects and injustices, and our role is among other things to correct it. And that it is indeed a claim that the existing system of labour social legislation and labour market relations are in favour of the owner of capital, only one data is invalidated. In 2003, 49.3% of gross social products were distributed from labour costs and all that went towards workers and workers. In 2008, it was reduced to 47.8%. In 2003, capital owners went 33%, gross social product, and 2008. 37. And as much as they claim that labour legislation is one of the obstacles to investment and further economic development, these data say it is not true. But what is particularly important is the concept of the Croatian Labour Act rests on the premise of the expectation that most workers in Croatia will be covered by collective agreements. I have never seen official information so I ask the Secretary of State if he knows that in the final word he says how many workers in Croatia, so the employees of people in Croatia are covered by collective agreements. If this is not more than 50%, then the existing labour legislation system should be radically amended or a final political decision that both Croatia and those states that have a similar concept of labour legislation should not only ratify the International Labour Organisation Convention on the Encouragement of collective bargaining but also do everything in their own practice. For example, I remind myself that there is a provision in the Labour Act that an increased amount of wages for work at night, Sunday, holiday and overtime is determined by collective agreement and must be increased, but I do not see how much. So, if the employer pays one lip above the regular hours for night work, overtime, work on holidays or Sundays he paid that according to the Labour Act. And the problem arises because there are no more provisions in the Labour Act on the mandatory content of a collective contract which would force employers and workers to register in the collective contract the amount of salary increases for Sunday work, night and overtime because I do not repeat the provisions on the mandatory content of collective agreements in the section I quote and what it is talking about. And because of this, it may simply be that the payment of a June above the regular hour or wage is in accordance with the Labour Act. We've introduced the Institute to be a pay-out list or a pay-out check-out. Did we help workers get their unpaid salaries? Do employers, instead of salaries, if they have no money, give workers a bill of wages or pay lists as an executive order on which they could initiate the procedure of enforcement or forced collection? This is what I'm talking about because these are the problems and issues that are currently plagued not by employers' associations and workers' associations but by the workers themselves, 100, 200, a thousand, but several hundred thousand employees in this country right now have this problem. And instead of solving these problems by intervening the Labour Act, we pretend that again or that we don't know that we don't see it or we're going to transfer responsibility to some other responsors like the judiciary. If that is the case and if we want to continue this concept of working relations, then it is high time to intervene in regulations and establish working courts, because it is obviously the only way to reduce the duration of working disputes to a reasonable measure and an appropriate deadline because the labour law that comes back after 6 years in a regular trial is not protected legally. And I'm done with the next one, the workers' compensation agencies are the biggest robbers in this country. And how it is possible to intervene again in the Labour Act and not specify a provision that an employee who has been rented through the agency when he has already agreed to this pharmacovigilance court, system, cannot have less salary than a worker or employee who works with the employer and the same jobs. In fact, at least 60,000 workers in Croatia today work in such a way that they are employed by phantom agencies that have been paid by other employers, and the salary they receive for the job is half as low as workers who work in the same jobs and have a contract with the employer. This is, of course, unfair, but from the other side, there is a huge and tax evasion, because one of the reasons why employers take employees through agencies is precisely the fact that the costs of these workers represent as material costs rather than employee costs. And with a reduced salary of not 10%, not 15%, but 50% is brought to an extremely large amount of social injustice. The fairest thing would be to ban and give up those agencies, but if you don't have the courage to suggest it, then really in the Labour Act we have to have a provision that can't be paid less than a regular salary in that of the employer who hires workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73713	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Daniel Srb.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73714	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In his presentation, the esteemed colleague Lesar looked very broadly at the issue of the law, and I think it is necessary at this point to note how it is precisely amending such a law when it comes to different forms of work, something that is extremely burdensome and unusually sensitive to a number of employees working in systems, especially in large systems, systems that are permanently in operation, so whatever it is, it was about special utility companies, large hospitals or some other institutions in which there is an extremely complicated system of work in different forms. So, there is not only regular work, there is then night work, shift work, work on tours, duty, the problem of harmonising such forms of work with special laws such as the Law on protection of work and other laws and regulations. And actually exactly the conditions that are prescribed by these laws complicate the position of these workers, and in fact very often also bring them into a situation of extreme dissatisfaction because of the inability to organise from one side of the work which is also to the benefit of the institution where they are employed on the one hand and themselves, because often because of the inflexible regulations, we are actually doing ourselves harm. That this is also the case with the latest changes to the rules that have occurred in the last two years that radically complicated the system of work records. And then we're actually putting ourselves in a position to become less and less efficient, and through this, less and less competitive, which eventually ends up back on the employees who get low wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73715	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73716	Fellow Serbs, the subject of these amendments to the Labour Act should be subject to collective agreements if they rest the principle that this Labour Act is based on a system of collective agreements. And in the Labour Act, there was only one provision, redistribution of working hours, overtime, nighttime and work on Sundays can only be introduced by the employer if it is covered by a collective contract and found to be an increase in wages for that work. Then we'd have a situation if employers were stimulated, not to say and forced to make collective agreements with trade unions, and these things work out at the level of collective agreements. And so long as we do not have such a provision we will be forced to intervene in the Labour Act and introduce not only more complicated systems and models and introduce a new dose of injustice but practically put into function of social partners and regulate everything by law. And so we continue, in two three years in Croatia collective agreements will be an exception, not a rule that is not good, but what is strange to me is that unions don't understand it, because then the need for the union ceases.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73717	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73718	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So this bill is the result of social partners' dialogue and should be welcomed and voted for as such. It regulates working hours, one small segment of the overall relationship between workers and employers. But what about global relations, which is with working on black, which is with non-payment of wages, which is with non-payment of contributions, which is with these phenomena that are deeply rooted in society and that actually characterize the important relationship between workers and employers. This unfortunate neoliberal capitalism considers profit to be the sole measure of all social values. It's the society we live in. All other values: solidarity, the fair distribution of social wealth, security, prosperity, all of this is suppressed in another plan. It's all irrelevant. Profit is the measure of everything. They're working with profits, so they're allowed, that's the relationship they have with the employer today. Banks in these conditions of crisis are making enormous profits, and our society has found no answer either through monetary or fiscal policy to make this enormous wealth, this enormous profit that is accumulated in the bank accounts of these banks more justly distributed. We don't have that answer. And it can't just be working legislation that solves this issue. Labour legislation is only one segment, perhaps even the smallest, in the need for these to be dealt with in a fairer, better, more humane way, not to be a society exclusively of profit but a society of human values. What are the other areas in which we would have to engage and not engage? What about working disputes that last forever and in which one employer can deliberately, knowing that he's breaking the law, and especially if he works in the public sector, in the state sector, fire a worker by counting what I care about, you'll get slow when I'm no longer here. But the rights of that worker, that man's life is ruined if work disputes last so long. What about taxing the profits from the capital that I propose in vain for years because we watch the wealth of one increase without being covered by the tax, and the poverty of many other multipliers, those covered by that tax, the worker pays his taxes. But the one who sells shares or the whole company, and no, he's free of that tax. We find this unfair, and until these injustices are resolved in this society, there is no better position for workers. What about the Penal Code, with the determination of non-payment of wages as a criminal offence for which we have proposed, and you keep refusing as a government for years and thus encouraging these employers to be irresponsible, to accumulate their wealth by not paying their salaries to workers. If he knew he was going to jail three times, he'd think about getting rich that way. When this neo-liberal capitalism is yet unseen robbery of state property and the poor work of the government, so what can be the position of workers in such a country, so what can be its perspective. On November 19th 2009, I asked Minister Shuker the question at the current morning, and I said that every day five family homes go to the drum because they can't repay mortgage payments. Who these people are, they're workers who lost their jobs or their employer didn't pay their wages so they can't pay back their loans. They're workers because if they weren't workers, the bank wouldn't have granted them a loan. I received an answer in which Minister Shuker says you were obviously watching news from somewhere in America or somewhere else because what you're saying is simply not happening in Croatia, it just doesn't happen in Croatia. The government won't let that happen, and you have to be aware of that. You can, Mr. Stazic, say whatever you want and you can scare the Croatian people as much as you want, but unlike you who talk and don't argue with anything. The government is making concrete moves and will take them and, in the future, Minister Shuker says. And she took over the government. Then every day five of them were left without a house. Today, seven of them are left every day. The same question was asked by my colleague Mario Habek a year ago by Prime Minister Kosor. Mrs. Kosor, do you know how many families at this time can't pay off mortgage payments so they're threatened to end up homeless? The prime minister answers, I don't have that information. But as much as you try to humiliate me, as much as you try to insult me, as much as you try to degrade the work of this government and me as Prime Minister, we get more and more power, more confidence, we gather more and more people, and we are more confident that the end of this year will be the beginning of Croatia's exit from the crisis, that this year we will achieve the goal and end the negotiations in 2010. Neither the negotiations ended in 2010 nor the crisis came out in 2010. And now as it happens around us, and it happens the government is proud to propose this law that regulates working time. We'll take it, that crumb in the sea of trouble, that one drop. But we warn that there are more problems. We'll pass this law, but we can't accept this government's work. We think that for the position of workers it is necessary to change the philosophy of this country, the philosophy of relations with work, according to capital, according to capital gains, according to the payout, to introduce it as a criminal offence, to implement everything we have promised for years, everything you have refused for years. That's why elections are needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73719	Thank you. Corrections. Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73720	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's Mr. Stazic incorrectly claims that our society has not responded through fiscal policy either. That is incorrect, Mr. Stazic, because I am about to say that according to the Economic Recovery Programme, one of the objectives of reform is the area of fiscal policy. During 2010, a number of activities were carried out, and I will say, for example, that specific pay taxes, pensions and other incomes were abolished in two stages. The first one with 2%, later higher by 4%. The Law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act has also been adopted. The rates are down from 15 to 12%. Rates from 35% and 45% to 40% have been lifted. And tax reliefs have been abolished just like the reduced non-taxable payments with the aim of tax-delivery of the economy through certain laws, so I will say for example that the Law on Forests, Tourist Communities, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73721	And Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73722	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I will correct the inaccuracies of my fellow Stazic, where he stated that today seven working families remain homeless. That's incorrect and cobwebs. This is certainly not true, as is not true, nor is your concern for workers' salaries, labour status, because we have seen in the past time how much you invest your concerns when you cut your wages to civil servants, tenants, workers and nothing you cared about. And the number reached a very familiar number that was over 400,000. But your hypocrisy is even bigger with you and your colleague Milanka spending two months on Brijuni and you haven't paid for it today. It is hypocrisy when your concern for workers is so expressed in this Croatian House.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73723	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73724	In accordance with Article 209, a factual indication may be corrected. Under an incorrect assumption, one cannot claim that one’s concern is not true. The first concern can't be true or false. It can only be a court. Worry can be honest, can be dishonest. That's pure logic. I don't expect Mr. Djakic to know the basic postulate logic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73725	You can't suit yourself with offensive illusions. It's not appropriate! If it is a correction of an incorrect allegation, if it is not a correction of an incorrect quote, it is not appropriate to justify the violation of the Rules of Procedure with offensive alusions to the knowledge and mind of another agent. Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73726	Thank you very much. It's hard to correct incorrect allegations, and to stay on some level that deserves this High House. After so much false patheticism and a lot of demagogy Mr. Stazic is constantly spreading, Mr. Stazic should know some process of finance when you are providing certain information to know whether it is true or not. Running something doesn't have to mean taking it away. And when you like to quote, I would like you to quote when I asked you whether, in accordance with that article of the Income Tax Act, you feel obliged to pay income tax in kind and for certain activities. And today you've talked so much about working on the black that you've done during theatre performances on Brijuni. Therefore, she has the Bible: "Let the stone throw the first one..."
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73727	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73728	This, too, in Article 209, was not a correction to the incorrect allegations, President, you know that well. And the obligation to pay income taxes has an employer of course, that's what you should know.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73729	Another violation of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73730	Well, unfortunately, we all use this one, this tile for something. I made it clear to my colleague, the income tax for receiving in nature, that I quoted your income tax articles. You are, now again, avoiding when it comes to you and when it comes to your party, but the violations are for all equal, no matter which party you belonged to, and you are a taxpayer because you received in nature a free holiday, and therefore you must pay income tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73731	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, Replica Please, colleagues. [[The intruders don't understand.]] My colleagues, please! Comrade Lesar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73732	Thank you very much. You mentioned justice in this neoliberal capitalism, which we are building in Croatia. It is good to apostrophe all and remind the ruling that the role of the state is to correct not only irregularities, but also actions that have led to social injustice. We have one situation where they didn't recognize in time the consequences of what starts on the labour market, which is pay default or irregular payout, and ends with people being kicked out of their homes. Every day, we witness that banks take homes or apartments through people’s performances because they are unable to pay loans. 8 billion kunas currently in Croatia have in their accounts, and claim that they have no one to place these funds, while holding an average interest rate of 7.3% with a foreign exchange clause in Swiss, and the dead cold ones are operating on workers who do not receive salaries, who are working in businesses that have brought these same banks into a situation of liquidity, taking high interest and foreign exchange clauses. When we spoke publicly to the governor of the Croatian National Bank six months ago and said something was wrong with the foreign exchange clause system in Swiss, he said we understood nothing. A few days ago, he says, but commits, or points to the government and the Parliament that something with the foreign exchange clause should be done, because what is happening in Croatia is no longer tolerable. Well, now how is it possible that six months ago no one saw the causes, one of the causes of what we have today, and now they're pointing a finger at each other looking for who's going to make the first move. So if the Parliament is the one in which the governor directs from foreign exchange clauses, then let's, when the government doesn't suggest that we abolish the foreign exchange clause in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73733	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73734	My colleague Lesar, much is not tolerable in Croatia, not just to address this issue. As I said in the basic debate, this is not a problem that is neither easy nor easy to solve, it first requires a theoretical basis. Do we take neoliberal capitalism and accept it as the only basis for solving all social problems, or do we have to find some other theoretical foothold, and then make some concrete moves. I personally think it's the way, I personally think it's the only way to get this country out of the fungi that it sinks into. Some others see different ways. Their paths are the slander of those who warn them, the rise of criminal charges against people they know to be completely innocent, the defamation of political opponents, the humiliation of discourses in public debate, the simple withdrawal of everything into the mud. Why? For their dirt to be seen less. That's their way. This road has brought Croatia here. And certainly there will be no way or method, colleague Lesar, to get this country out of that fungi. This country can only draw elections from the fungi.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73735	Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73736	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This country from the fungi, says counterpart Stazic, can only draw elections. But this land can't get out of the fungi in a way that travels for 7 kuna with a party team, because if the rest of the people could, then maybe the country would get out of the fungi that way. These amendments to the Labour Act will allow for more flexible use of working time in those activities in which it is important, such as tourism, so it may be a summer for 7 kunas, agriculture, any business of continuous duration such as press, radio, television, cinematography, industry in which work cannot be interrupted for technological reasons. ... Vice President. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73737	Please. What's that? ... You can't have private conversations. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[I'm in danger.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73738	... A more flexible arrangement of the Institute of Working Time is allowed in such a way that collective agreements can, apart from the exceptions to daily and weekly rest, arrange exceptions to night work. [[Specially enabled.]] It shall be possible for the agencies to, in some cases, in the context of an agreement on the entry of workers' concessions to workers' contracts that the user is obliged to keep a prescribed record of working time. A greater deviation from full-time is allowed when applying the Labour Schedules Institute in such a way that it is now not limited to 12 hours per month, but to 24 hours per month. Changes to the Institute redistribution of working hours in such a way that it does not have to be arranged at calendar year level but over a period that cannot be more than 12 continuous months, and is also allowed to redistribute working hours in employers operating seasonally for more than 56 hours a week, but no longer than 60 hours. More precisely, the use of a proportion of annual vacations for workers who during the years of work among several employers in such a way as to give each employer the right to part of the annual work-time period relatively. More specifically, the procedure for cancelling a worker who has a professional incompetence to work or a direct risk of disability in such a way that the procedure is aligned with the provisions of the litigation procedure and the prescribed cancellation procedure for all workers. The role of the union commissioner in short notice of resignation is stronger. It is important to stress that these amendments to the Labour Act have been submitted to the European Commission, which has no objections and assesses it as harmonised. I'm going to support this bill, and in the end, just one more sentence, I couldn't believe that bathing for 7 kuna could cause this kind of anxiety in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73739	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73740	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So it is incorrect to assume that Nenad Stazic and Milanka Opačić flew for 7 kuna. That's an incorrect quote. They flew for 0 kuna because their stay tax was paid by the organizer. So they didn't pay 7 kunas, they paid 0 kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73741	Replica, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73742	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, we've heard a lot about job security today, so one main Light Motive is a complete opposition that the job at these moments is insecure and clearly everyone calls for a while before the '90s when the job was safe. There were fewer unemployed, that's for sure. Because here's the game they've been canceling out of since '45. and '55. She took some 100,000 people off the Stock Exchange and clearly solved all life's torments and worries and lives, so she could let one big crew settle Australia, Canada, America, and then 400,000 agreed by a gaster in Germany, many of whom stayed there. And so, surely, it was for the rest of us, for all those who were left here, there were more jobs. But I think that time that they praise should still be more studied and less called upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73743	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73744	I agree with you fellow Markovanovic, and you can see how much care the SDP has about the Labour Act, about the workers, there is a presence of their representatives today when the debate on the Labour Act is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73745	Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73746	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, we are discussing these amendments to the Labour Act that should certainly be supported because they are the result of the social partners' agreement. However, this was an opportunity to correct other problems in the labour market in the Republic of Croatia that are really alarming. In fact, the Republic of Croatia, compared with developed Western democracies, has probably the most catastrophic working conditions, which is actually tragic for a country where public health doctrines were born as the most spectacular export product of all time. According to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute Report recently discussed here in the Parliament, according to the latest report, each fourth regular pension is a disability pension. Therefore, the person who operates on the labour market today has a fantastic 25% chance of ending his career as a disabled person. Or, every fourth person who leaves the labour market by retirement becomes a disabled person. We see a terrible increase in the number of disability pensions that we can describe by an exponential curve that doubles every approximately 3.4 years with an amazingly high correlation coefficient of almost 99%. Thus, the trend since 2000 has increased with the acceleration since 2003 following the coming down of the coalition government from power, and so here is the steep exponentially increasing number. So the working conditions for us must be catastrophic. What exactly is it that the Government, the Ministry of Economy, the Government, other ministries are doing to improve working conditions? This is an important prerequisite for the growth of the entire economy because a satisfied and healthy worker can only contribute quality to his workplace by creating new goods and services. However, here is also when we discussed this Report from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, however, there have been no concrete measures since then. Emergency, Mr. Secretary of State, something needs to be done because this system is simply unsustainable. You can check everything I said in the picture of the last Croatian Pension Insurance Institute report, and I hope that you will also pay very soon attention to this problem to get rid of it. Or, secondly, my entire debate is missed, so basically the Institute of Pensions is actually used in disability pensions as some kind of quasi-social policy cryptometer, solving extra workers from the labour market, and because the government is uninnovative and impotent in creating new jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73747	Thank you. Final review of Secretary of State Kresimir Rogman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73748	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, the parliamentary representative argues that the government is impotent and incompetent in the employment phase, opening new jobs, this is indeed an incorrect allegation, because the programme of economic recovery carried out consistently by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The programme itself has already won the start of economic growth, has also affected employment and new employment, and the government has begun to address the problem of structural unemployment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73749	Final consideration, please select the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73750	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I must first point out that I am glad that everyone has supported such changes and additions to the Labour Act. In the debate opened in that critical part of it, most of the debates referred to areas far beyond this Labour Act or to some other parts of this Law, these are issues of monetary policy, tax, general justice and a lot of other things that I can look at, nor are they subject to this Law. About those questions that are directly related to these changes, I'll just say a few words. Therefore, those directly related to the Labour Law raised the question of problems, collective agreements, their hierarchy, which was directly resolved in Article 7. The law applies what is more favourable for a worker, this has not happened at all once in practice such a change. Obligations, disputed question, whether the employer should lead, when the Agency is required to keep records of workers at all, this is clearly set out in Article 4. The law where the employer says he has to keep records. The Agency is an employer, and this proposed amendment only suggests that the Agency can give the obligation to the user by agreement, so the state agency must do so explicitly. Furthermore, when the question of compulsory content of the collective contract and the question of the determined height of those increases for overtime and in-work, all of this is agreed either by collective contract or contract of work, or may be determined by the labour rule, not one lip is paid but as much as agreed. If nothing is agreed, then one lip can not be paid, then there is the application of that provision of the Law which says that the worker has the right to an appropriate paid right... to that part of the salary. It was also noted that, with regard to the Agency, that the employed workers can have as much as they want a small salary, that there is no safeguard provision, it is explicitly Article 26(5). The laws prescribed that workers should not have a lower salary than that user would. Finally, concerning these concrete remarks, there is one high coverage of collective agreements in Croatia, of course, the result of two instruments or collective agreements concluded with either the employers' or the government's association or individual employers, and the second is the extension of the application of these collective agreements, more collective agreements, and those most important ones are extended from trade, construction, catering, tourism, wood industry, etc., so that a very large number of workers are covered by these collective agreements and I must say what was disputed in all these collective agreements, as far as I know, are certain provisions on the amount of overtime fees and other pay increases. Finally, there was an observation, which was quite concrete in relation to these amendments and the addition of the law, whether there must be double protection in that redistribution and collective contract and the consent of workers, one profession must be the consent of workers under the basis of the directive, double not required, but here, on the union proposal, there was another additional protection for workers and it was acceptable for employers to do so, and then we see no reason why there would be no such additional protection. And finally, it is necessary to say about the sequel and just to say one more remark to the distinguished representative Lesar that six or a few months ago a new Labour Act was never prepared, the new Law was never prepared in the direction of these amendments. And lastly, these are the changes, as we spoke at the outset that are in line with the social partners, which we keep one good through improving social dialogue or agreements between the social partners, as shown by the continuation of the work of the Economic and Social Council and very successful and fruitful cooperation on the economic social council, dynamic but very fruitful, which has also resulted in those issues that have arisen here so as to conclude on the problem of non-payment of salaries which we hold to one very useful procedure, perhaps one of the best that has recently been or for a long time at that level of dialogue that we expect to produce results. Secondly, after these amendments and the addition of the Law, the discussion between the social partners will continue in order to further agree on amendments to the Law. Whether I was thinking or wondering why these changes were made. Some other changes were also considered, but as everyone held social partners, employers and workers that these were very good and useful changes and wanted to change immediately, and continued to talk and negotiate, because the opening of some other more sensitive issues of those so-called. Interested questions could have led to these useful and good changes being stopped, so they agreed to adopt these amendments now which will benefit all, while continuing a smooth work but immediately on the agreement on other amendments to the Labour Act that the social partners would agree on together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73751	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act. The amendments were submitted by the HNS-HSU Representatives' Club, the Tourism Committee, the SDP Representatives' Club and the HNS-HSU's Club of Representatives. I'd like Secretary of State Kresimir Rogman to be made aware of the amendments submitted. The first club of HNS HSU representatives. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73753	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished MPs and MPs. The proposed proposal for this article fully achieves the purpose of what has been proposed by the amendment. The proposal to amend that article as proposed by the Government shall ensure that the collective agreement can arrange work for a night worker who will be longer than 8 hours but not longer than 12 hours. The night's work can never be longer than 12 hours. The proposed amendment suggests that night work, it is said, is said to be longer than 8 hours, night work must not and cannot last longer than 8 hours and the reasons for this contract are said to be negotiated by collective agreement. Therefore, the legislator always determines the source of law, so it is a collective contract, contract or regulation that does not specify that rights should also be determined in that source. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73754	On behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73755	Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73756	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment of the Committee on Tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73757	The proposal to amend the amendments proposed under Article 47 of the Law provides for a longer possibility of redistributed working hours, up to now it has been possible for a maximum of 56 hours 4 months, and is now forecasting 60 hours over 6 months to work longer. First of all, we hold that it is quite enough and more than we think is not necessary, and doubtless from the aspect of the directive and the protection of health and that is what is agreed with the social partners. I must point out that at the request of the Committee on Tourism we have held another meeting with the social partners and most of the social partners, most unions do not accept such a proposal from the Committee on Tourism where there is no limit on how long this work could take longer than working hours, so theoretically 10 months per 60 hours which we hold to be unacceptable. In order to be questionable from the aspect of the directive to certain types of working time and without the consent of the European Commission, I think that it could then open the issue, and from the aspect of the protection of workers' health and ultimately of the amendment, it would be controversial to accept it for nomotechnical reasons because it is referred to the article of the basic law not to the article of the Amendment to the Law and amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73758	Representative of the Tourism Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73759	I accept and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73760	Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Article 3
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73761	The proposed amendment extends the circle of workers subject to the exception of those restrictions on rest and night work. Unfortunately, we cannot accept this, namely, all exceptions relating to the circle of workers that the directive provides for certain types of organisation of working time. Therefore, more than that, we must not extend that circle of workers, and moreover, we should know when it comes to workers in rail transport, so workers in railway undertakings, that, in the part relating to working time, the Labour Act applies, but the basis of the Railway Safety Act, their working hours are governed by the Regulation on the working time of railway workers, and those are covered by this directive, which I mentioned, rather than by the rail transport sectoral directive. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73762	On behalf of the SPD representative, Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73763	This amendment of the SDP Club has been submitted to encourage workers right in HZ Infrastructure and it is quite illogical of your explanation, and the only explanation is your directive. I think that the time has finally come for you, in addition to the directive, to listen to a little bit of workers' directives because it is quite illogical because they work on shifts especially in night shifts, that they too are covered by such a schedule of working time that is flexible as you have made possible for port workers and other places whose work is precisely by nature and technology of things identical to workers in HZ Infrastructure. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73764	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of HNS HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73765	The first amendment is also submitted for the extension of the circle of workers to which exceptions would apply, and I must once again mention the directive provides for exceptions to the application of restrictions concerning rest and night work exclusively where necessary and everything else is not foreseen in order to protect the health of workers, so when such a circle of workers is extended and we would then question and protect workers' health. Therefore, the most important thing is not in line with the directive, which taxively states and that amendment cannot be accepted. And it's worth everything else that's happened before.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73766	We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73767	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the votes he needed. The second amendment of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73768	This second amendment would extend the length of longer working hours in the redistributed working hours that the amendment and supplementation of the Law provides that this longer working time than 60 hours per week may take up to 6 months, it is proposed that this longer working time may take up to 8 months. This would be controversial and doubtful from the aspect of the directive that I have mentioned and from the fact that the European Commission has accepted these amendments and there is no further extension of these exceptions and it would be doubtful from the aspect of the protection of workers' health and we believe that the extension from 4 to 6 months, from 56 to 60 hours, has provided sufficient flexibility for the organisation of work in the redistributed working hours. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73769	And while on the one hand we advocate the extension of the tourist season from the other side we do not practically enable it, so we cannot accept that there are also those who will work longer than 6 months and so we do not give them an exception. You probably negotiated with someone from the Commission who comes from Scandinavian countries or countries where the tourist season cannot last longer than 6 months. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73770	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Labour Act. Please engage, please vote. The result? With 92 votes for, 2 abstentions and 3 against, the law on amendments and amendments to the labour law was passed. We're moving on to the next point. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Officials and Landowners in Local and Regional Self-Government, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. Number 798 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative, Labour and Social Partnership and Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Management Pavle Maticic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73772	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Officials and Detentions in the local area (regional) of Self-Government proposes to comply with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act in matters relating to the determination of the official person acting in the administrative procedure. The deadline for appeal against the solution,... solutions, for deadline and cancellation and abolition of the solution, etc. Also with the same bill, and on the basis of the opinion of the sole local and regional self-government, and in particular the Association of Cities in the Republic of Croatia and other bodies, it is proposed to regulate several new institutes. The draft law therefore proposes to establish as a new institute the possibility of admission to the service of a person who is a foreign national or a stateless person who is to obtain prior approval from the central body responsible for official relations. In order to avoid ambiguities and doubts that arise in practice on who is considered a candidate registered in a public tender, it is proposed to establish that a person who has failed to submit a timely and orderly application or a person who does not meet the formal conditions of a public tender is not considered a candidate registered in a public tender. It is also proposed to prescribe that only those candidates who have left at least 50% of the points from all parts of the test can access the interview and verify practical work if that check is carried out. Furthermore, since the practice has shown that penalties for established minor injuries to official duties do not have sufficient effect on officials who commit such injuries, it is proposed to establish that three are easier to carry out official duties in the period of time of two years as a serious breach of official duty. In order to avoid any influence on decisions of the official court or of the possible conflict of interest when determining the responsibility of officials for violations of official duties, it is proposed to establish that the president and members of the official court established in the county or the City of Zagreb in the large city or county headquarters may not be members of the representative body of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government, municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors, as well as the heads of the administrative bodies of those units. In view of the fact that the current law does not establish the possibility of temporary transfer of staff where appropriate of service, but only the possibility of permanent transfer, which in practice affects the mobility of employees in the administrative bodies of local and regional self-government units, it is proposed to lay down by law a new Article 98a which would establish that a service officer may be temporarily relocated but for a maximum period of up to one year and until the return of the absent official to be replaced by the transferred official. In such a move, an official would have the right to pay more favourably for him, who obtained all the other rights of the service in the administrative body from which he was transferred. Finally, in view of the numerous doubts raised in the previous examination of the knowledge and ability of the candidate for admission to the subsistence service, it is proposed to establish that the examination of the knowledge and ability of the candidate for admission to the service is carried out by means of written testing only from general knowledge. According to the government, it proposes to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73773	Thank you. Committees on Legislative, Labour and Social Partnership, Local and Regional Self-Government? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73774	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, at the very beginning, I'm going to say that the HDZ Representatives' Club absolutely supports this bill. In particular, the basis for the accession of amendments and additions to the Law on Officials and Landowners in local and regional self-government is currently found in the need to comply with this law with the General Administrative Procedure Act, in particular in the context of the following provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. This regulation lays down rules on the basis of which the authorities of the state administration and other state bodies, as well as the bodies of the units of local and regional self-government, legal entities having public authority within the frameworks of the demarcation established under the law, act and resolve in administrative matters. Furthermore, in all administrative matters, the General Administrative Procedure Act applies, and only certain issues of administrative procedure can be regulated differently by law and only if necessary for action in certain administrative areas. The same administrative thing is defined by that law. Therefore, any situation in which a public legal authority decides in the administrative procedure on the rights, obligations or legal interests of a natural or legal person, directly applying laws and regulations and general acts governing an appropriate legal area. It is in this sense that the provisions of this law should be highlighted, therefore, by the provisions of this law relating primarily to the determination and definition of the official person acting in the administrative procedure; secondly, the time limit for appeal against solutions which are decided on the rights and obligations of officials and subcontractors; the third thing relating to the enforceability of the solution and the fourth, the deadline for repealing and abolishing the solution adopted. The other provisions of the law in question need to be fully defined by the Institute of Temporary Relocation, so this law therefore sets out specifically the articles set out in a transparent manner, clearly, precisely the Institute of Temporary Relocation. The staff member may, as appropriate, be temporarily transferred to another administrative body of the same unit of local and regional self-government, but shall, of course, be replaced by a period of one year, or by the return of an absent official, who is replaced by the transferred official. In this situation, an official is entitled to a salary that is more favourable to him, and he is exercising all the rights of the service in the governing body from which he was transferred. So, the Croatian Democratic Community's MPs' club supports this bill. He is now fully in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act, he is one in a series of laws that we have already aligned with the General Administrative Procedure Act and there is no reason not to support this law in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73775	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73776	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed Act amending and supplementing the Law on Officials and Detentions in the Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government is in line with the provisions of the Law on General Administrative Procedure in the section relating to the determination of an official who is acting in a administrative procedure when deciding on the rights and obligations of officials and subsistence. Furthermore, the time limit for appeal against solutions which determine the rights and obligations of officials and subsistence officers of the implementation of the solution, the deadline for repealing and abolishing the solution and others. Furthermore, the proposed law regulates individual institutes and this temporary transfer, the way in which written testing is carried out in the public tender procedure for the reception of the furniture, the possibility of admission to the service of the administrative bodies of foreign nationals and stateless persons, which, in addition to meeting the conditions laid down by the special law for reception in the administrative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, should be granted prior approval of the central authority of the state administration responsible for official relations. In order to avoid ambiguity and doubts in the application of candidates to a public tender, it is proposed that a person who has failed to submit a timely and orderly application or a person who does not meet the formal conditions of a public tender shall not be considered a candidate registered in a public tender. It is also understood that only those candidates who have achieved at least 50% of the points from all parts of the tests carried out and verify practical work should that check be carried out. In order to avoid the impact on the decision of the official court or of the possible conflict of interest when determining the responsibility of officials for the violation of official duties, it is proposed to establish that the president and members of the official court established in the county or the City of Zagreb, in the large cities or city of the county headquarters, cannot be members of the presidential body of the local and regional (regional) self-government, municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors and heads of the administrative bodies of those units. The proposed law also lays down the possibility of temporary transfer of officials, if necessary, for a year at the most, until the return of the absent official replaced by the transferred official, with the right to pay which is more favourable for him, while all the rights of the service would be exercised in the administrative body from which he was transferred. In the event of the suspension of the administrative body of the local unit and the takeover of officials into the administrative body taking over the tasks of the abolished administrative authority, it is proposed that the decision on the schedule to the workplace or the decision to make available shall be made at the latest within 2 months of the entry into force of the Internal Order Regulation and not from the taking over of officials into that administrative body. It shall be simplified to process service admissions and to schedule at the place of employment of subsistence staff performing technical tasks in the administrative bodies in such a way as to verify the knowledge and ability of candidates to be admitted to work through written testing of applicants from general knowledge and not from certain administrative areas. For this reason, given that it is a matter of harmonising procedural provisions of a special law with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act which falls within one of the criteria for closing Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights, I support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Officials and Landowners in local and regional (regional) self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73777	Thank you. Ms. Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73778	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to admit, first of all, I'm rather surprised by the lack of interest in this agenda item in the debate. Maybe that's where I was wronged, maybe later that interest got stronger. Because it's a subject that's very important to the citizens we represent because almost most citizens meet in life exclusively local officials and tenants. Very rarely there are contacts of some other levels, and most often they will ask for help, especially in smaller places. First, he will address the head and then to the mayor later or he will ask for help from a parliamentary representative. So that's why I think this topic is particularly important, but I think there's still open space here for maybe some repairs, for some I can see that they've already been done, and that's first of all this possibility of moving as needed by the service. Why do I think she's particularly important? Well, it's especially important, above all, because of smaller municipalities and cities. Cities of medium size or large certainly have these systems arranged, but imagine the smaller municipalities you believe there are only two or three people who can't do all the necessary jobs, especially those who put the time ahead. For example. who will prepare a project in a smaller municipality that should withdraw funds from the European Union when few people who know how to do the job also have some cities that are more well or that are larger. That's why I think these loans are very important. I also hold the importance that the transfer of employees must certainly be decided by the mayor or the captain because his responsibility is great not only at that perceptive level where when someone is not able to say that he is the mayor or the mayor but also on the real one. I therefore hold that it is necessary to consider whether such powers can be given to elected mayors and mayors, especially after the new model by which they are chosen where they really need to be given significant, i.e. half-support. I mean, so there are these two elements that should be analysed, trying to install when we still have these small municipalities that are hard to finance, whose question really needs to be considered. Then while there is something you should do to make those officers who work there or those who might work there benefit the citizens and that they can work on projects because that's the way to fill the budgets. Often the budget of a smaller municipality is actually spent only on employees' salaries and there is nothing else. So the question is, why do they exist? This loan would have solved the problem in some ways or at least eased it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73779	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on officials and tenants in local and regional (regional) self-government. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage, please vote. The result? With 96 votes for one abstention, the proposed law was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73782	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is another law from the work of our ministry that needs to be brought into line with the new Law on General Administrative Procedure and its specific provisions which are procedural in nature. This harmonisation is proposed in respect of compliance with the basic principles of the General Administrative Procedure Act and this applies to the erasure of the subsidiary application of the ZUP, to the expropriation of the possibility of editing the procedure of enrolment in the register and registers of the Chamber, to the Statute of the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Geodesy Engineers, and to delete the provisions already prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act and to refer to the deadline for issuing the certificate and decision-making, and to the possibility of starting the administrative dispute. This law should be amended, or adopted in order to comply with Chapter 23, and no funds are required. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73783	Thank you. The committees? The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction on behalf of? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The club of HDZ representatives Ms. Marina Matulović Dropulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73784	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the proposal for this law to carry out geodetic activity with the final draft law because it is also one of the sixty laws that comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act. For example, the provisions governed by the ZUP are deleted, provisions prescribed by the initiation of the administrative dispute are amended, certain deadlines and the like are deleted. However, this is an opportunity to recall what has been done in recent years in this activity, and what is particularly important to all of us. All laws and sublaws, such as the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates, the Law on the performance of geodetic activity, the Chamber of Geodetics and others, have been adopted in a way that enables the development of the profession to meet the requirements of state, economy and citizens. Croatia today has a system of spatial information that is successfully supported by basic databases and registers of care and managed by the State Geodetic Authority. Over the past period, a topographic map has been drawn in measure 1:25000 for the entire territory of Croatia with 600 leaves for the first time in the history of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73785	Marina just one moment. Just a moment, my colleague, just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives at the gallery are, the chairman of the European Integration Committee of the Senate of the Republic and the Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Armed Forces of the Senate of the Republic with the escort and ambassador of France to Croatia. Please welcome! Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73786	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, as I said for the first time in Croatia's history, a topographic map was made for all of Croatia in scale 1:25000. Two eras of digital orthophoto cards are made in scale 1:5,000. Also for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia on 9800 sheets. A complete catastrian operation drawn on 56000 lists of catastrian plans is digitized and vectored as well as a register of spatial units and a system of home numbers. Although further expectations of users are higher than the results achieved in recent times, it is noted that today Croatia can support any activity in the space with modern spatial backgrounds in a standard digital format. Further assumptions were given for the development of all other systems based on geo-referencing spatial data from spatial planning, environmental protection, nature protection, land particles identification in agriculture, ar code and a number of other systems. There are great needs and units of local self-government. Of course it's possible and it's all done. To point out that spatial information today is an inevitable tool of governance at all levels of society, which means that it is also a political issue. It can be freely said that it is already now, and in particular in the future, the question of the results and effectiveness of society and state will be linked to the level of efficiency of using spatial information or to the level of geo of social skills. And I still think it should be said that everyone should remember that we in Croatia today have 550 economic operators and companies and offices. They employ about 5,000 people, some of whom are very successful in foreign affairs. This job needs to continue to work seriously, and I'm sure that's how it's gonna be. The Croatian Democratic Community club will therefore support the draft Law amending its geodetic activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73787	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal for a law amending the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity. I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Please engage, please vote. The result? Final proposal for a law amending the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity. Please engage, please vote. The result? With 95 votes for and 1 abstention of the proposed law amending and supplementing the Law on the conduct of geodetic activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73790	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. In December 2010, the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Information, which entered into force on 30 December 2010. However, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia repealed that law because of, I stress, formal counter-constitution and would cease to apply from 15 July 2011. The Constitutional Court has assessed that the Law on the Right to Access to Information is discussing human rights as set out in Article 38. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which guarantees access to information owned by public authorities, required a majority of the votes of all representatives of the Croatian Parliament to pass this law. As we know, this law was passed with 73 votes, not at least 77, so according to this formal counter-constitution, the Constitutional Court abolished the law. So the Constitutional Court did not assess the content and material consent of this law with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so according to this, the Government proposes that, to the Croatian Parliament, the adoption of the law in the same text as the law that was passed in December of the month. In addition to this decision of the Constitutional Court, I can say at the same time, since this law as part of Chapter 23, that, before and before the law was passed in December of the month, we received a positive opinion from the European Commission, and also after the adoption of the law during the talks with the European Commission, there were certain issues relating to this law, I think that we cleared them up in the meantime, and in particular there were issues with classified data. After we have given the reason that this is governed by the Data Securitisation Act, the Law on Financial Security and International Agreements of the Republic of Croatia, that it is precise who can make an insight into classified data, and how these data are primarily classified, and that it is not the free will of the leader, but it is governed by the law that we have not yet had any objections to this law in the context of the negotiations under Chapter 23, which is why the Government is proposing to the Croatian Parliament to pass the law in the text attached to you. At the same time, we can say that the Legislative Committee has proposed some nomotechnical amendments that the government accepts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73791	Thank you. The committees? For legislation? For European integration? For information, information and media? Local and regional self-government? I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives, Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73792	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The freedom of information, and thus the availability of information available to public authorities, is one of the fundamental human rights guaranteed in our Constitution and also regulated by numerous international documents. So I will begin by saying that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support these amendments and additions, so the proposal for this Law on the right to access information. And, of course, it should be pointed out in the introduction that the amendments and additions of the Law on the right to access information should be seen not only in the context of the new constitutional provisions, which define the right to access information, which are owned by public authorities as a constitutional category, but also in light of the difficulties in applying existing legal provisions, i.e. the application of the law that has been in force since 2003. Of the difficulties encountered in the application itself, it may be necessary to highlight three basics. It was about the length of the procedure, the inequality of practice, and in certain situations, of course, there was also an abuse in terms of the exercise of this right. Furthermore, the amended provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. Article 38, guarantees the right to access information owned by public authorities, but also restrictions on access to information must be proportionate to the nature of the need for a restriction in each case. So in each case, it is necessary in a free and democratic society, and of course it is prescribed by law. When we analyse the proposed changes or additions, they absolutely improve the Institute's right to access information and, of course, point to the conclusion that it is about quality changes, good legal solutions that can be systematised in the next 5 essential and separate units that actually characterise these proposed changes and additions. What is it really about, and what are the totals? The first of them is, in any case, the extension of the circle of persons, legal persons, which are covered by the legal obligation to provide information, Article 2 very important. So we have extended this law a circle of natural and legal persons that are covered by the obligation that they are required to provide information on demand. The second whole was fully implemented, and based on constitutional provisions, the principle of proportionality in terms of providing information to the public authority. It is explicitly prescribed by law in which all situations cannot come and what information is that all situations do not give information. I would stress here that the other legal provisions are necessary and logical. Therefore, information which would, in any sense, prevent the effective, independent and impartial conduct of a judicial, administrative or other legal procedure or the enforcement of a judicial decision or sentence cannot be provided. In addition, those information which would make it impossible for the body to carry out administrative supervision, i.e. inspection, or supervision of legality. And of course those information which would violate the right of intellectual property except in the case of explicit consent, so the author or owner of that right. Thus, the Constitution also respected the principle of proportionality. The third very important thing, if not the most important thing in terms of these amendments and additions, is that the law defines an independent body for the protection of the right to access information, which, in addition to the tasks of the second-degree body in the resolution of complaints for the exercise of the right to access to information, also performs the following tasks and is also taxed in these amendments and additions, and firstly refers to the reporting of the competent central authorities of the State administration of compliance with the public authority's obligations prescribed by this law. Next, it proposes measures for professional training and training of information officers, giving initiatives to adopt or amend regulations to implement and improve the right to access information. And of course, it reports on the rights of users to access information regulated by this law. The fourth whole is that the proposal is actually accepted, the proposal has been accepted by many institutions and persons dealing with this problem, the proposal has been accepted to accept a legal solution which is exempt from payment of fees in the process of exercising the right to information to all those who claim the right to access information. And the fifth whole that is also important is to prescribe fines for those who for unwarranted reasons deny the right to access information. In any event, all of these or above amendments should result in the basic objective of the proposed legislative amendments, which are ultimately to enable and ensure the right to access information to all natural and legal persons through the openness of the public to the functioning of the public authority in order to exercise control of their work. Therefore, it is also a matter of respect for these legal provisions, and the law itself is in fact the best possible form of control of the work of the public authority by one fence, provided that there is no practical abuse of this right, and these amendments are also complemented by that trail to reduce to the least possible extent the possibility of abuse of the right to access information. As we have heard from the opening statement and from the State Secretary, this legislative amendment or regulation in this way of access to information issues is also a basic prerequisite for closure, i.e. one of the criteria for closing Chapter 23 in terms of the conclusion of accession negotiations with the EU, which is also important to note. And bearing in mind what the secretary of state said was that this proposal was an amendment to the law that the government delivered to the Parliament for discussion and adoption that it was in line with the European Commission, the HDZ Club supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73793	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73794	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, this law was passed in the House by an insufficient number of votes, so the Constitutional Court abolished it for formal reasons. There was no need for 77 votes. He would probably get those 77 votes if the government then respected the remarks we raised. She didn't respect them, and that's why we couldn't support the amendments to that law. The government has now had a great chance to intervene in its bill, to enter those remarks that we have highlighted, and then we would be closer to getting the required majority in Friday's vote. For the same reasons we refused to uphold that law when it was last voted, we will have to reject it now. Therefore, the question will again be asked whether this law will receive a qualified majority in the Parliament. Then why did we refuse to accept this law? Because we claimed that the government only proposed it for one single reason. In order to make it formal, we could say cosmetically, meet the conditions set by the EU in its negotiations. In doing so, it does not take due account of the content and the real state of any government in the Republic of Croatia in view of the exercise of the right to access information. So, if the Government of the Republic of Croatia decides not to give any information, it will do so in action. It's today's condition. How's that? So this seems to be a skilled combination of non-compliance with deadlines, silence by the administration, by looking for reasons to seek information, and finally by calling for its secrecy. The more persistent applicant information is thus complicated in months and sometimes several years of procedures, demands, complaints, silences, corrections and additions and disputes, and ultimately do not get an answer. Now, why is it important that they get the answer and that this law is implemented and that it is respected? Because he's one of the strongest assets in the fight against corruption. What does it look like in practice? Not only do citizens not get answers from the Government, such answers are not received by parliamentary representatives before whom, according to our Rules of Procedure and under the Constitution, there can be no secrets and who have the right to any information. One of our representatives asked the Government to answer me how much the Government of the Republic of Croatia, individual ministries, companies owned or partly owned by the state paid to individual lawyers, individual law offices and law firms for certain services and for which legal jobs. It's the contents of the parliamentary question. The government responds that the ministry has spent so much on legal services, and the ministry has spent it on legal services as much. The MP asks an additional question, he says, so don't make me crazy or myself, I've asked you nicely which ministries to which law firms, offices for which legal affairs and how many, that's the content of the question. The government answers that question again, it's a business secret. So a business secret can be how much a private person has paid for a lawyer's favor. But when it comes to public money and these services are paid public money then it can't be a business secret and in particular it can't be a business secret for a representative. That's why this law is the best anti-corruption tool because if the government had nothing to hide that there's no reason to keep something secret, she would answer to the MP, this office for this and what's the problem with it. But if someone hired a lawyer's office and received some commission from it, then of course it is kept secret and of course that the basic information about spending public money is not given not to the citizen but to the elected representative in the Croatian Parliament. Our second representative sent to all ministries the same question, did your Ministry deal with FIMI media in what jobs and in what amount. Those ministries that didn't do business with the Fimi Media responded to our ministry is not and is not fine. And those others said it was classified information because it was the subject of an investigation. Listen, not every business with the Fimi Media has to be a crime, maybe some ministry has been doing a perfectly legal job, so why don't you give the MP that information? So as we can see, the government is getting away with it. The government finds a way not to answer the question and not to provide the requested information, it is the state in which we live, it is not a picture of Croatia that is Croatian reality with this government. A strong instrument for correcting such a reality is the law, and that is why we have objected to the provisions of this Law because it does not solve this issue and that is the key issue. And look, the European Union will not only evaluate us by law, it will evaluate us by practice and by the implementation of these laws. So it's not enough to write a nice law and then not implement it. Because you know this is a little unimaginable in developed democracies. A key civil association that has played a huge role in assessing the quality of the law, the right to access information is GONG. In 2009, GONG conducted a remarkable project called Lotus. What GONG established in this project. He found that only 16% of 556 cities and municipalities in Croatia meet the criteria of transparency set in the project. Transparency, accountability and openness to citizens and other stakeholders. Sdp can proudly point out that the city of Rijeka has received the highest rating. From 1 to 10 cities Rijeka received an 8.8 rating according to this project, which proved to be the most transparent city in Croatia. We would certainly be happier if several cities had fulfilled it, no matter what option political authority behaves, but that we have such results after one study of an independent association that has been dealing with it for years. Now, what we're suggesting is that the law be entered into so it'd be better. We reiterated our old proposal to introduce in Croatia an information commissioner who would be the Ombudsman of this Parliament. Why the Commissioner for Information? Because someone has to check the public interest test, they have to carry it out, someone has to decide whether there's a real public interest in providing information or whether it's private curiosity, so they want to find out what they don't need and what they don't have and what they don't do about public performance. This public interest is not always easy to assess because sometimes you have to protect personal data or other values, perhaps some state secret, business secret and on the other hand you have an interest in the public. Someone has to be responsible for taking this job seriously and assessing what's important, whether to protect some state or business secret or to present it to the public. This is, for example, in the case of business of some large companies that are state-owned and partly state-owned when it can really be of business interest not to publish any information but may sometimes outweigh public interest. For example, in the sale of MOL, the public is this significant institution, companies and so that some information about the business of such a house could be denied to the public. In this regard, we did not suggest something unknown that we would not be pioneers in this business. Many countries have ombucmans for information and its introduction has proved justified. For example, neighbouring Slovenia, it has a Commissioner for Information and exactly the Commissioner, and she managed to get the president to publish the list of guests at the reception paid by the state or taxpayers, to such bizarreness as it goes, how much the president spent on reception. No matter what the president is like with us, he has his own budget, so he uses it, some more modest, some more wasteful. As we see this President Josipovic very modestly, he has made savings in the budget on the item for the President of the Republic, but he still complains about some waste that he does not have. I am very sorry that, with this law today, we are not going to discuss a parallel or even perhaps even another item of the agenda, and that is the report on the implementation of this law. For the first time, it has now arrived in the House for a new methodology, and it is very interesting to see, on this side, whether any amendments to this law need to be introduced in view of the implementation of this law to this report. We are not going to discuss it here today because the parent board, the Committee on Information, Information and Media has not arrived or could not discuss it since HDZ representatives who otherwise have a majority in the working body as well as in all other working bodies suddenly left the session during the debate. This is a unique example of parliamentary practice, I guess, since the introduction of parliamentaryism in the world, that someone who has a majority on the board can vote on what he thinks is boycotting the work of that body. It's very interesting political, sociologically any way you want, but it led to our debate on this bill not being as good as it could have been if we had had that report on the benches and that we could have done it too. For the reasons I initially cited, the SDP club will not accept these amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73795	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. First female representative Susana Bilic Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73796	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Coli Stazic presented in his presentation a number of incorrect allegations but I will correct one, that "the government has proposed amendments and amendments to the law for the sole reason to please the EU". Which is not true, and you know it yourself because you had the same objections to the 2003 law, but you can't, you don't want to accept and admit it. I would like to remind you that in April 2010, the Government of the Republic of Croatia revised an action plan with the 2008 Anti-Corruption Strategy, which set one of the objectives and improved the legal and institutional framework for the effective repression of corruption and thus commissioned the Ministry of Administration to develop a harmonised proposal for amendments and complementing the right to access information. And when you say that certain EU countries have a Commissioner for Information, it would be good to say that some EU countries have the same resolved issue as in the proposal for this law, which is the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73797	Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73798	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here's my colleague, Stazic. I'm going to correct two incorrect allegations. First, it is not true that the government is seeking to get away with some things by adopting this law, and it is not true that only two parliamentary deputies have asked a question and have not received an answer. Here I am, too, persistently asking a question for Mayor Sabo in Vukovar, who, by coming to power, had literally listed high-ranking persons who worked at the post of head and deputy head of staff, appointed a person without professional training. So, he doesn't give an answer to the General Attorney, there's no information available. Of course, since he keeps everything in his hands the same way he doesn't get into the media, and that's just the way here's how you're going to rule when you get here. That's your way. That's why you won't even vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73799	Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73800	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Sumrak, who, in part, has already corrected the incorrect quote, and I'm also correcting Mr. Stazic's incorrect quote when he says the government is getting away with it. Mr. Stazic, the government is not getting away with this. I will offer you, as an argument, an argument that one of the most recent written answers to the 43-page question, and I will also tell you that there are no letters from the citizen or citizens to which the Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, does not answer, let alone answer the parliamentary question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73801	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73802	So here is a number of marketing expressions by colleagues of the Pre-election Stazic, one is certainly guilty that Rijeka is the most transparent city, because so it would not be kept secret until today that the hot money collected for the defense of the city of Rijeka and Croatia ended up in someone's refrigerator by his party colleague Slavko Linić or a better variant that they claim that instead of weapons we bought marble and in this way we definitely defended this country. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73803	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73804	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the right to access information that we have brought further to the table in 2003, as stated by my colleague Stazic on behalf of the SDP club, and you are constantly pointing out, the roof and fundamental law in preventing corruption. So this is the kind of law that doesn't occur when corruption already happens, but what's most important about us is that as much as possible narrows down the possibility of corrupt action. Because let's face it, there will always be those who want to corrupt and who want to be corrupt, so both corrupt and corrupt. But what, then, is the task of good authority and good government? It is precisely that the laws but just as much as the laws so much and their implementation reduces such one possibility. With this occasion, I always want and think of the thoughts of the Jews who say that a crow claims that it can penetrate the sky, but the sky means the inability of the crows. Thus, good government means the inability to corruption, i.e. bringing it down to one acceptable or minimal level. Now, the main problem that has arisen is avoiding answers from the government and individual ministries to requests from MPs, journalists, citizens as a whole when it comes to spending money. And instead of knowing that this is the main problem, we have seen this from previous reports on the implementation of the Law on Access to Information Law, instead of making it impossible for such abuses and for us to get answers to concrete questions, this bill does not solve this. The second most important problem is that the government stamps whenever it wants, as well as some of its secret agencies, and that vanca is also recognized. It's not the invention of this government, but other governments did, and then an independent body came along, so there was a lack or need for an independent body that would then be arbitration, because it's true, and it can't work if it's all public. And there's one segment that has to be in that area of secrecy to make the state effective in certain segments. And then the more normal than to form an independent body or an ombudsman like the Slovenians, that's what we suggested, it was rejected, which will then independently arbitration between the responders and the government or any other body of public authority as it is in law and certain. And then there will be a test of the public or therefore the answer must be denied because of a secret which is therefore a secret behind the parliamentary representative himself. But when it comes to spending money on daily needs, so we're not talking about the issue of security, we're not even talking about the issue of defense financing or someone else who always raises doubts like this whether it's issues that need to be in the realm of secrecy. But if you ask the question how much was spent on that and that, and the government answers no, it's a secret, it can't be a secret. And this law would have to, if the government did not know how to interpret its own laws, then it must be explicitly stated in order to simply combat such abuses of this bill. So, at a time when here are the mouths of the fight against corruption and when it stands out, this law and its all-power, we get such answers, that is, short of such answers. And not to talk here and on the current morning when you ask very specific questions, and then you talk about it, about someone... about when the earth was a burning ball and thus avoided answers. [[You don't understand.]] So it's not giving an answer either if it's answered and it's not answering the question, it's just saying, and it's not answering, and we're aware of that. That's still Sanader's introduction and it's going on, that's his work he's put into practice because by then really they've changed governments, there's always a parliamentary representative who's got an answer to the question. Especially when the eyes of the public are pointing at us. And it is still considered a skillful policy, so it does not answer the question, and today in Croatia it is considered to be a skilled politician. Which means you don't answer the question, it means you lie. But it is a problem of government, not so much ability and incompetence and it is important and too important, but the problem of lying power we have in Croatia. That's our biggest problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73805	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Madam Representative Gjurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73806	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. Comrade Antičević, I must correct you in this section that you said that you did not receive specific answers on your questions in your current class. That's incorrect. You have received concrete answers, only they have not satisfied you, and that you have received them, that no one has kept secrets is the fact that here we are now in the conclusion of negotiations and this government in the conclusion of negotiations with the European Union. And just please warn your mayor Saba once more that he will answer all the questions that are being asked to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73807	Replica, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73808	counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic, you are talking about the need to introduce a commissioner who is refuted by the government. Well, now you have to know that's two reasons. First, to avoid access to information, and second to allow access to misinformation. Because if we don't have a commissioner to judge this, then it's perfectly normal to hand-written criminal charges against Slavko Linic so that lies from that application can then be transferred to the Assembly and repeated as proven facts. It means they're dealing with misinformation. Where we don't have a test of public interest, where the government doesn't answer questions, there's a wide open field to wage war on misinformation or what you rightly call them, lies. And that's why the government doesn't want a commissioner. If we had a commissioner, he would have dealt with it very quickly. He would, for example. in Linic's case, he checked whether the money had left the account, whether it had been returned to the account and said a representative who said in the Parliament that the money in the fridge was lying. This way, when that commissioner is gone, this is possible. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73809	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73810	The trustee you speak of or some body is indeed a desperate need for us and for which they are persistently avoiding. I think the answers we give through the debate on many bill proposals because it's a key problem, a lie problem in Croatia, lies from ruling, lies that got the status of truth, and the truth becomes ridiculous, miserable, it's in the rags, and the lie is stuck with all the glare and attracts. However, this famous one has obviously fallen. But now you're looking for glue to stick it back together, to figure it out. So if the government and a little of its strength and little ability were to spend exactly on the better lives of citizens, and less so if it were to lead and seduce less, we would be much better off.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73811	Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. She's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73812	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here is the law that has already been in the process and which has been abolished by the Constitutional Court in its decision because of the lack of votes or that 77 MPs are required to vote on this law. The law continued to be forwarded to the re-processing process, and it speaks of freedoms of information, and thus the right to the availability of information available to public authorities. One of the fundamental human rights prescribed by the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Convention on Access to Information and International Contracts, other than the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And also the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which adopted the Croatian Parliament on 16 June 2010, particularly stressed the importance of constitutional right to access information owned by public authorities, thus establishing the basis for its consistent legislative implementation. There is also a constitutional basis for legal restrictions, and legal restrictions stem from the classification of certain documents in the government and in public authorities. We can therefore clearly say that what was heard in the assembly today certainly has no basis but these are defamational calls of the Croatian Government that certainly works well, quality and which provides information as we can see through these hundreds of responses to the parliamentary representatives, and the whole book is even about certain segments of the issues asked to the Croatian Government or to individual ministries. The openness and public work of the public authorities towards the society in which they operate is one of the fundamental assumptions of democratisation and modern society, the fight against corruption and examples of basic legal, social and economic postulates. These minor amendments and additions that took place in the previous law will certainly improve certain and textual but also real provisions on solutions to requests for access to information. What I would like to emphasise is that the transparency as mentioned in the city of Rijeka, which has been named here as the most transparent city in the Republic of Croatia since 556 I would have put this assessment of GONG as an unworthy assessment, given that in their questions they did not ask those things concerning Rijeka markets, concerning the Rijeka Bank, concerning the money for the defence of the Republic of Croatia, the purchase of weapons in Rijeka. I would also say that I would also like to commend that with a score of 7.2 and the city of Virovitica as a transparent city you have failed to say this in your discussions which had no objection, which has specific issues concerning the real spending of budgets. The secrets you're talking about and that you want through this law that are hidden or that this law would hide them absolutely don't stand. And I can only point out that the transparency at the time you perform Mrs. Antičević's ministerial function would certainly know how your husband did, how you handled certain procedures and buying gasoline etc. There'd be a lot of wonderful information put up by individual MPs, so they never got it. I believe that GONG as your extended arm many times intransparently, vaguely assessing without real evidence puts you in priority as a transparent and organised but also transparent city of Rijeka which is according to you as the redest. I believe that the Croatian people are no longer so manipulated by your last nudges and cowardices that they are saying that surely your officials, employees, mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors or formers who were rejected under allegations of criminal charges that they presented to GONG transparently how they spent budgets, how they published public tenders, how they were conducted, how they were elected and how they paid. This should all be transparent in the questions of GONG announced and in the report on the right to access the information that our city councilors have often asked for, and you will probably hear from my colleagues in which cities, on which issues and which questions have not been answered. So your calling that goes in the sense that you're the best at everything, the most transparent certainly has a single thank-you that doesn't stand in any of the real facts that we have knowledge of, that we have and that we will certainly go public with right now that my colleagues are instructing their knowledge of the transparency of SDP officials. This law is certainly a law that regulates this chapter on the right to access information, but just as the Constitution must also respect what is the classification of documents and what are certain secrets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73813	Thank you. Just one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73814	This Regulation shall enter Rules of Procedure. Mr. Chairman, yesterday it was very embarrassing for us here and for the public in Croatia to listen to the insults that went to your expense. Uncomfortable. Don't let as little time fellow Djakic personally insulted and insinuated himself, in this House by calling himself colleague Ingrid Antičević Marinović by planting on her toddlers her husband's affairs because it has nothing to do with the debate we are having here today or what we should actually agree on here together. I ask you to warn Djakic, MP Djakic and everyone else to stick to the Rules of Procedure and the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73815	The allegations can be founded, unfounded, and whatever, but it doesn't mean they're offensive. ... Let's go correcting the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73816	I am correcting the incorrect quote of my fellow Djakic, because he is impossible to correct, but his claim is yes, and that is the quote he has stated here that GONG is an extended hand of the SDP. That's incorrect, it's insinuation, my colleague Djakic was talking about transparency, I would believe that this authority is transparent that your party associate Barisic had a transparent bag so that it can be seen transparently how much money he carries in the party, in your party. And the fact that only two countries in this part of Europe are in a worse place than Croatia is all about the party you belong to, and this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73817	Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73818	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I must correct the incorrect allegations, although I believe that Mr Djakic honestly thought that GONG was an extended hand of the SDP. So GONG is a non-party, non-governmental association, which criticises irregularities in society, and what irregularities there are more when HDZ is in power is not the problem of GONG but HDZ. That GONG is not an extended hand of the SDP also speaks about the ranking of the transparency of the cities in Croatia, where 10 of the first cities are among other 5 cities where HDZ is in power and so is Virovitica. I'm quite certain that this report was before it was found out that Mr. Kirin was the mayor of Virovitica amongst the suspects of the FIMImedia affair, because since the data about it went out, then the city would be even more transparent, so maybe it would be the first, not now in the seventh place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73819	Mr. Representative Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73820	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Like my previous colleagues, I will also correct Mr Djakic, GONG, of course, is not an extended SDP arm, but a prominent non-party organisation, which is '97. established precisely for the reason that there was a lot of intransparentity, above all by the ruling set of then HDZ. In the GONG council there are prominent experts from different Croatian universities, above all the Faculty of Political Sciences, and it is inappropriate in this way to insinuate the role of GONG as a non-party organisation that encourages citizens to go to elections and oversee elections on behalf of citizens and thus put them in the context of politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73821	Replications. First, Mr. Representative Ante Kulušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73822	Mr. Vice-President, my colleague Djakic agrees mainly with your debate, and on the transparency of SDP's cities and SDP's policies, I will only show one example from Sibenik, because here my heart has disintegrated listening to some discussions of colleagues from the SDP, in which the main contents of slander and lies are. Namely, in the city of Sibenik, city councilors asked the mayor to provide them with information, since they had called tens of tenders per 69,000 kuna, not competitions but directly favored, it was known that this was all going on, so they asked the city administration to deliver the data, but the response from the city administration was that they should not give because of the secrecy of the data, and that is the official answer, so I ask my colleagues from the SDP to help us when they are so much in favour of the transparency of the data that we in Sibenik get the information how many contracts the city of Sibenik signed up to 69 thousand kunas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73823	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73824	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's colleague Kulusic, you yourself have established what I've actually stated in my debate, but here's what I'm going to complement just this protection and representation of GONG, i.e.. Your defense that went according to my words that I have directed and identified, or declared that he is your extended hand clearly says that you have touch points, and that doubt of such kind may exist on my part. That's one thing. The second thing, when I said that about GONG, I said with certainty and I will repeat, that GONG would ask complete and transparent questions in Rijeka would have all the answers then, and then certainly there would be no city of Rijeka first in transparency to answer all the questions that should be answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73825	Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73826	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Djakic, I agree entirely with all the allegations you have made in your debate, because you have said well that the opposition here is only slanderous lunches to the Croatian government, which is not particularly surprising to me, because it is most difficult for them to admit that the decisive fight against corruption, and this law also contributes to the prevention and fight against corruption, the law on the right to access information, does not want to acknowledge that this determined struggle has been started by the government headed by Mrs Jadranka Kosor, and is in light of the announced completion of our colleague's negotiations on the left. Because a colleague of Djakic, what he can get in Rijeka, you said yourself, and a colleague of Buterin often tells us that they can't get the council members of the Croatian Democratic Community, and that if we also consider that these amendments and additions to the law, that the extended definition of public authorities to legal persons whose programs and actions are partly or entirely public interest, and that they are fully or partly financed from the state budget or from the budget of units of local or regional self-government, and to companies in the majority ownership of the Republic of Croatia, I hope that our HDZ councils will be able to get answers to questions raised in Zagreb Holding and Rijeka markets.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73827	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73828	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what we're going to have to prove. We're going to have to prove for sure that not all of those meals that were said today in our House of Commons, and we're going to have to repeat that it can't be a secret as Mr. Stazic has been spending his summers. It cannot be a secret, and it must be clearly explained in this Croatian House how many two months it has been, how much money it has not been paid, how much it is, and that is one of the transparencys we want to know, and we have not heard it until today. About the work, the transparent work of the city administration in Sibenik, I will read about the question that all natural and legal persons with whom the city of Sibenik has concluded its work contracts cannot give you the necessary information because it is personal data and as such are protected by the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. Secretary of State, I would ask you nicely if such an answer could be made, is it really an answer that is in the spirit of this law and could such an absolutely non-transparent act of city authority in Sibenik still be without any sanctions? And I want to point out that when you talk about the defense of GONG, I haven't heard that you've corrected any of my incorrect allegations about your affairs, about your cases, about your rejected criminal charges, about the transparency in that part. I haven't heard that from any of the MPs I've given my question to.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73829	Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73830	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. Comrade Djakic, it's hard to know about your exposure, of course, but I'd like to add something else. It is difficult for you from the SDP to hear something positive, and it is usually related to the lack of certain qualities you know as foreigners and as people, which is excellence, honesty, patriotism, democracy. They don't know that to you. If they had that trait, here's what they would have if they had a colleague named Djakic, for example, they wouldn't call it... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73831	Peace, peace!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73832	My colleagues, Ingrid, you spoke.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73833	Please respond, President!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73834	You'll be able to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Have you just called your colleague Anticevic the government and the ruling coalition liars?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73835	Well, that's true!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73836	Is that true? And when you're called, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73837	Can I go on? Let me continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73838	Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73839	My colleague Djakic, if they were great, they wouldn't even come out now because they're offended by the truth. If they were excellent then they would support a series of laws that were to be passed in this House, then they would also support the fight against corruption, for example. The fiscal responsibility law, and they would support other laws, but they did not insist because they did not want this Croatia to enter the EU, to complete the negotiations. If they were honest and they had patriotism in them, they wouldn't behave like that. But it's in their roots. A colleague, Djakic, has been difficult to eradicate since 25.06, it is known what they did and how they acted when Croatia was to enter the Constitution as an independent.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73840	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73841	If we're being honest, let's just have one more thing,
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73842	Thank you. No, I can't allow it anymore. Not anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73843	Then they'd confess to 150 thousand kunas that are now in Holding scared.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73844	Replication response. Then there will be a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73845	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of the twilight you were talking about honesty, excellence, patriotism, the traits of certain people and certain organizations, and there's certainly a lot to say. If we were to talk about patriotism, here I will go from it, you started with how they did not want Croatian coat of arms or Croatian flag or Croatian independent homeland. Today, when they ask about the financing of the defence of Croatian generals, they certainly ask it out of patriotic feelings. To make mistakes, both for them and for the Croatian state. We have witnessed enough times how they have done it perfidibly and even today when we are doing our last step or half-step to Europe and today they are at every step of the ground, distracting, not allowing and judging and talking about Croatia is not transparent, that it is not ready, that it is not this. And these are, therefore, instead of common interests and struggles as one citizen of sovereign, free, independent countries, surely should act differently. First of all, the conduct of honesty, excellence and patriotism is something else, and that is certainly unknown to you on the left.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73846	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73847	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm extremely sorry you didn't locate the breach in Article 213. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and Mrs. Sumrak transferred outside the assembly for insults she said at the expense of the SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73848	Mr. Agent Ivan Drmic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73849	Mr. Chairman, I must also point out that you violated Rule 213 and 214 at the time of your debate with your colleague, Sumrak. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are carried out selectively according to your own intentions. Because of the same things that my colleague twilight did today, you threw out of a meeting of two of my colleagues yesterday. I would ask you to get rid of those personal weaknesses of yours and when you hear something that you don't like to be as tolerant as you are today for your fellow twilight. Maybe that's why my colleague Sumrak is a good friend of Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor's, so don't you dare give her a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73850	Yesterday, I applied the strict measures of distance from the session after all the possibilities were exhausted for Mr Zoran Vinković and Dinko Buric when they were warned, warned, when their word was taken from them for damage to the Rules of Procedure, then I applied in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that extreme distance from the session. I had no reason to be guided by others, but only by the fact that these gentlemen were represented, and what was clear to the public was the instructions of such insults and such slanders on my behalf and continued to do so after the warning and even showered me with even more serious defamatory insults, and it was logical and clear that I should have and had to apply this measure of distance from the session. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73851	Article 214, your colleague Vidovic has already warned you today. Yesterday, you forced two MPs out of the assembly because you were personally insulted. We're sorry it happened. We don't think insults are the best way to work. But your way of running a session, your criteria to defend your honor and let the honor of other agents get dirty, and makes it actually unworthy to do the work you do. You will not throw us out of the assembly, in this assembly not only has the twilight prevailed, it turns into darkness, and in that darkness we do not want to be together with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73852	Comrade Stazic, there is no harm to the Rules of Procedure by me rather than to the injury of the Rules of Procedure by you. It would be correct for you to stay and listen to what you have to hear. When representatives of the SDP who are now no longer the most difficult insults and slanders have insulted the government, the Croatian Democratic Community was declared to be liars, that the empire of lies is then fine, then it should be accepted and I guess it should be applauded. When you answer that on the other hand, that when the SDP returns to the SDP with such a qualification, then it's hilarious, then it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, then it's a tolerance of insult. Double standards. One criterion is for SDP and one criterion should be for SDP. When lies about HDZ are cited and HDZ and the government are declared liars, then that's fine. When it comes to reverse, there's a lot of noise, protests, injuries to the Rules of Procedure. So, one by nature is true, righteous, and the other is SDP, and the HDZ is by its nature and by its action something contrary to that. I haven't given you my word yet, I've given you an explanation on your claim that I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Now you're raising the board and hurting the Rules of Procedure again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73853	It's kind of hard for me to do business with you guys because you're abusing that chair you're sitting in and I'm being constrained with business opportunities. I will repeat again that you have violated Articles 213 and 214 I would ask you as chairman, if it is necessary to submit a written request for you to also extract statistics from the Croatian Parliament during this term how much you have given notice and other restrictive measures to members of the ruling coalition and how many members of the opposition. I don't agree there were any special insults yesterday. I'm left with the memory of your last week running a session where you even mentioned some horses I don't remember, maybe it's no offense for you if someone tells you you're a horse, but I believe the one they told to be offended when you said it. So at least you deserve to be removed from the session if the same rules you're using for my friends who aren't here today because of your wrong decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73854	I really congratulate you, Mr. Drmic, so it is not offensive for a representative to tell another representative that he needs a stationary treatment, that it is not enough ambulatory treatment, it is in line with your understanding of honor and reputation. Or it's not offensive when you make slanderous false claims that I personally hurt the Constitution until you get them all else, that I'm not advertising them now, that's normal for you. That's normal for you. What was I not selectively applying, there were political qualifications with which one disagrees, which one does not accept and were not personal insults by Djakic's representative for no one brought personal insults. He presented certain qualifications of certain attributes that you or no one else should agree on. Let's move on. First of all, I didn't tell the MP that he was a horse, that MP I recognized in that parable, I'm not responsible for why he recognized himself, and what happened to the parable of the calligula, you know. I assume you have some training to know what the personification of Caligula is. You don't know clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73855	I don't know that, but I guess I think I know...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73856	And that senator who named his horse, that emperor who named his horse a senator, why your colleague recognized himself to be a horse, why he didn't recognize himself to be the one who named it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73857	The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73858	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73859	Thank you. Here's another two, three minutes and we're done with this. Namely, it is known that information requires many, primarily citizens who think their rights have been violated, and then want to get clear information. Journalists who have to fill pages, portals, cameramen, all other information important, and most politicians, with mahogany opposition politicians who want to find out in some way what they are supposed to know, rather than being fond of the electoral body. But well, it's always been like that shouldn't talk much. It's good that the subtitle is the timing, accuracy and completeness of the information because that's exactly what people expect and it's also good to do as precise a catalogue of information as possible, finally... that people know what to look for, which they can't ask for. Because there's information that, if it's a court case, investigative work, that information can't come, that's exactly what our colleagues in the opposition are looking for most. Perhaps they were spoiled a little by former state president Stipe Mesic who made the tourist office out of classified information, so who came to him for a transcript if he asked for one for the prize he got two more, by choice. So that's how it turned out and we're paying now. But I do not understand the statement of fellow Stazic, who persistently drags the current president Josipovic into corruption persistently, because there is no statement that praises President Josipovic, who does not defend today what the cost of the banquet there in Pantovack is that people must know it as well. And what does he want in return? In return, he wants a free holiday. The summer is nearer, there is no debate in which he does not praise Josipovic, now Josipovic will again give military ships that will take him and his colleague Opačić for a free bath and will have a free holiday. So, a typical example of corruption. I don't think it's necessary for President Josipovic and that he will definitely avoid it this year because despite fellow Stazic's fondness, I'm afraid that he will have to pay for the final holiday somewhere. And the most objections and most of the cases are from local administration and self-government. So we have municipalities, county cities as numerous as 500 and I don't know 60 of those units, close to 600 units where there are bigger and smaller secrets. There is the biggest cry of transparency often and justifiable. We've heard examples. Where the big stuff went without a contest, sure people want to know how money is spent, there's justification. But it can't be the state's fault. The state has prescribed a way to appeal how to resolve by degrees and the rest and should apply. If someone is not satisfied with the information, look at the right to appeal, do it, and then there are penalties clearly. Here we know it's not pleasant to hear all this happening, all these insults, but I hear them best here. Well, the insults that colleagues Djakic had just said here were mildly said in the rank of yesterday's, right? So if we want to show that we're some kind of Europeans, here's some who think we're going to take responsibility for the behavior of the government and so on. Then we should be a little more transparent. Because in all that transparency we heard only now was it found out that a fellow third chair here, hotheads of government money. That's very interesting. And is the money cool enough? Where did the money end? Is it later from some other sheep that I don't know of a reef, a river street, a marble in the middle of a war, right? That should explain it. Because our Slovenian neighbours swear what was happening with that money, how much transparency all over the story, and the tragedy is that the people who were the biggest nostalgics for the former state were actually involved in the war and helped actually to the independence of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73860	Thank you. Replica one, Madam Representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73861	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Markovanovic and my sitting position aren't exactly as you can see. Lately, you have some privileged information, and we here have a privileged place of sitting in fear can already say it in some way. But speaking of the Law on the right to access information every time it is found in this assembly, the SDP thinks it's actually called the law on the right to misinformation and insult, because it's precisely the law they use for all these qualifications, or to disqualify HDZ primarily in all possible and impossible ways. It means nothing to them that the law has also supported the European Commission, that the Law on the right to access information is one of the measures in the action plan to combat corruption, and that it is clearly unimaginable to the SDP and they are persistently opposed to this law or to all that it prescribes. I'm going to say there aren't any of them here, and I'm probably going to cause a thunderstorm, and they're probably listening somewhere, if this law was high-level, and I'm going to remind you that with recent constitutional changes, we've raised this right to a constitutional level. As far as abuse is concerned, for example, there are them in the town of Čakovec where the SDP is in power, for example, where the biggest secret is the mayor's salary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73862	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73863	Well, here's... normally everything is exactly what my colleague said, but the fact that there really are double criteria. One criterion applies to the HDZ second for the SDP. If the SDP's we barely found out buys for a million kuna, let's say a resort from Podravka, if I don't know it for 16, and behind that, some kind of Mesic's nephew sells it for 38 or something like that, then it's a clean situation. Let's look at the charge in Karlovac, the mayor sold some land, then the one he sold it to, sold something more expensive, and it's terrible... about HDZ. So, the goods to this mayor in Karlovac should only be referred to the case of Mršić in which perhaps if the State's Attorney's office says it may not be a crime but in any case it is immoral.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73864	Thank you. Ms. Representative, Đurjica Sumrak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73865	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. My colleague Markovanovic, here I will now repeat once again in peace with God that those who are not here it is the SDP that lack democracy, lack patriotism, have no honesty and have no excellence. These are categories that really need to be characterized not only by man but also by the party. And why do they lack democracy? Here they go, they can't listen when they're saying anything against them, and they're not saying it. And if they lack honesty and lack excellence, I must now say, Holding now two weeks after all the affairs, their SDP Holding 150 thousand kuna to the PR agency. And it's all okay, it's all clean, it's all perfect, it's good. The City of Zagreb budget was 10 years while they were in power emptying for their own purposes and that I would document it and show it to you and they know it. I already find it foolish to return to this holiday, but my colleague Jovanovic says that the summer of my colleague Opačić and my colleagues is a clumsy holiday, and that Rijeka Markets and Money is in reality to save for days. That's what he said on Sunday at 2:00. So here are their elements of their party. It's best to... By how they rule there from the lowest community, I'd say the basic local committee, what they do there, how they don't work, how they avenge people. [[You don't understand.]] Once again, in Vukovar, I am deeply sorry for all that H has before I know people who have worked with high-level professional supplies, their expert member of the SDP, their mayor has removed it from power not by expertise. Today we fight with every force to get people back to work. He can't, he doesn't make any statements, nothing, there's a sheriff-in-chief like some other.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73866	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73867	Well, I think that summering was still more friendly, on a friendly basis than we might think, but it was... Well, now for that matter. ... [[You don't understand.]] Fourth, right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The first three skipped, but good, we did well. So, the fact is, a lot of it's been done. Here yesterday we had a committee where the haughtiness of the colleagues of Stazic had seen very well, where he completely ignored the request of us who were the majority that we would discuss a report later because the government had asked to be complemented. He totally ignored it until we got up and went out. Clearly, the media and everyone were very surprised about what we went out with. So because a fellow member of the Stazic otherwise called a skilled manipulator, at least as far as the committee's session is concerned, there was a complete expression. And then when we make it transparent, then normally it's our fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73868	What about you? ... Five-minute debate, HDSSB Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73869	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although I reported with a replica and a replica plate to include me in the debate when Mr Djakic said you did not do so, so here I was forced to extend the party's time and go on behalf of the HDSB Representatives Club with the final word. This debate, which opened here during the last two speakers, Mr Djakic and Mr Markovanovic and the reply, replica, correction of incorrect allegations, SDP clubs and HDZ clubs, seems to me to be one supplement resulting in sarma, one cabbage, another meat, and a total of sarma. ... We are the salt of this country and this people because the bread without salt is worth nothing, and that is precisely HDSSB, Mr Markovanovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Djakic, he is no longer here, but I was going to say, when you mentioned all this, we know and everyone here knows, especially in Virovitica-Podravska County that Mr. Djakić is a real fighter for transparency, that he is a real fighter for the truth to come out, that it is true that access to the information he is talking about is also needed in the case of the river goat and 800 thousand then German marks. But that should also be said, both in the sale and smuggling of weapons at the beginning of the Homeland War, and then in the purchase of tilting and dying trains. That's what we should... motion trains. [[You don't understand.]] Well, for the purchase of fire trucks, for information in foreign media, as well as in our electronics that 500 million euros were blacked out on the accounts of unknown names and on behalf of HDZ. Then the questions that our emigrants, Croats outside of Croatia, are where the money of our emigrants are, and then about how the tax administration in Slavonski Brod is leased as a tenant of a private person and pays half a million euros in rent. Well, then, a lot of things. That's why we're here, that's why we're in this situation we call recession. I've asked the Ministry of Finance to tell me how much one legal person owes to the state. And you know what I got the answer for? If I didn't have the right to this information, it would be a tax collector's damage. I don't know why this would go to the expense of the taxpayer knowing that the person, or owner of that company, owes the state 300 million kuna. The information which is denied access for the reasons referred to in paragraph 3 shall be made available to the public when it is determined by the disclosure of the information to which the damage may be caused. Why would it be a damage to someone if a parliamentary representative asks what the tax debt of that legal person is, and I got that kind of explanation, Mr. Vice President? ... I can't know if it's very good that I can't know. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Great. It's just that charm of yours and each other, which you're very good at supplementing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73870	Thank you. ... Final review, State Secretary Paul Maticic. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73871	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I'll just say a few words in the end. As far as the text of the law and the bill is concerned, I have a feeling that it has been accepted by all MPs even if there are no parts here, because in this whole debate, as much as on committees and working bodies, we have not had any concrete remarks, any concrete amendments. So no one has objected that something in the law is not well regulated in terms of the exercise of law or as far as administrative proceedings are concerned, either in the protection of a person when they are not possible. All this other stuff that's been told in fact is something that has no direct connection, direct connection to the very text of the law. In that sense, it would certainly be good for the Croatian Parliament to pass this law with the required majority in order to have the law under this final phase of negotiations and chapters 23. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73872	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 3 p.m. with a debate on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouragement Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73873	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information, was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 799. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment committees and we do not vote on them because it becomes part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of this law require most of all MPs in the Assembly, so at least 77. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the right to access information. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 80 votes for, 1 abstention and 30 against, together with the amendments adopted. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, there are 50 points left on the agenda, and there are 17 waiting to be settled so far. I suggest after consulting that we don't work next week, mostly due to the visit of St. Fathers and other obligations that many representatives and parties have, etc. so we will continue the session of the Croatian Parliament at 9.30 p.m. with the agenda Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of Decision No 1/2010 of the Stabilisation and Association Council between the EU and Croatia on Croatia's participation as observers in the work and other activities of the EU Fundamental Rights Agency, it is an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 818. We wish you a pleasant holiday and all obligations to do according to your wishes. Please, we will now have one celebration of the Day of the Croatian Assembly, I will be very pleased to see everything down at that reception in Anti Starcevic. Thank you very much and goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73874	Dear MPs and MPs continue to work in the afternoon. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouragement Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 789. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the Law. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate of Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Dear Robert Markt State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73875	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I am honored to be able to present amendments to the Law on the Encouragement of Investments that we have implemented through the procedure and I want to tell you first about the Law that we have amended. The law entered into force in July 2007 at the Ministry of Economy, which is responsible for implementing the measures under the law, 169 applications were received. The approval of the status of the promoter was granted to 72 companies. The planned investment level of all projects reported is 3.1 billion kuna, with the planned achievement of 3721 new jobs. The sectors in which the funds are invested are dominantly meatrating industry with 13.6% production of motor vehicles and parts 11.6%, textile industry, wood-processing industry, logistics distribution, electricity production and transformer and production of photovoltaic solar modules with slightly more than 4%. It is interesting to note that out of 72 companies holding incentive measures 21 projects is realised by companies that are wholly and partly owned, this is 29%. The law that we have amended has entered into force in 2007, allowing new and existing companies to use incentive measures for investment, the minimum investment height for which the incentives are granted is 300 000 euros, subject to the opening of at least 10 new investment jobs. This investment should be implemented within three years of the start of the investment. The system of incentive measures stemming from the law accounts for a total of 6 types of incentives, the most attractive tax advantage representing a reduction in the profit tax rate from 5 to 100% over a maximum period of 10 years. Until the entry into the European Union, investors also have at their disposal a customs advantage that allows for the exemption from customs duties on equipment and machinery imported from countries with which the Republic of Croatia has not fully liberalised trade relations. The law also provides for non-refundable financial support for job creation as well as for the training of workers in new jobs. The law also aims to encourage investment in high value added sectors, which also provides for additional incentive measures for investment in establishment and development, technological innovation centres and strategic business support activities. These encouraging measures relate to an increase in the amount of support for job creation and to grants for investment in high-tech equipment. Also, investors investing in large investment projects have been defined in large investment projects by all who are more than 15 million euros in the counties, with a high unemployment rate, and additional grants for investment in a production facility, accompanying infrastructure and the purchase of high-tech equipment, as they are investment projects of significant economic interest to the Republic of Croatia. In line with the economic recovery programme adopted in April last year by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it was concluded that amendments and additions to the Law in certain areas that showed continued shortcomings should be made. The adoption of the proposed Law, amendments and additions to the Investment Encouragement Act will allow for the reduction of minimum conditions for the use of incentive measures to invest in investment projects such as technological development centres, strategic support centres, and those sectors that create extremely high surplus values. The minimum amount from the initial investment for investment projects, as I said in the development innovation activities and strategic business support activities, has been reduced to 100 thousand euros under the conditions of opening five new jobs if the table view is then made to invest from 300 000 euros to a million euro for production processing, investment projects, the conditions remained the same, so the minimum investment of 300 thousand euros, the minimum number of new jobs 10, the maximum duration of the 10 years, and there is a reduction of 50%, which means the current profit tax rate in Croatia is 20%, in this case would be 10%. While we realized that there was a need to make some harmonisation in order to achieve a standard that is valid in the environment especially in countries that are members of the European Union such as Slovenia and Hungary, it was necessary to reduce the amount of initial investment for some activities that are related to ICT or some technologies that simply started to emerge from extremely small micro-enterprise activities. For example, the largest investment means 8m euros up for production processing facilities, it is necessary to create a new 75 jobs, and what we have reduced means for development innovation is these conditions, so to leave the same incentive, it is necessary to achieve 50 jobs in order to achieve these conditions. So, for some 25 and 50 respectively, 25 absolutely 50% of us have relatively reduced the conditions for developmental innovation activities and strategic support activities because there it is known that the equipment used by such companies is extremely valuable, but such activities do not employ as many people as they do in manufacturing. The Law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouragement Act further specify some of the provisions that are in line with the legal acquis of the EU in the area of national regional needs, i.e. the full harmonisation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements with the Guidelines for Regional Support from 2007 to 2013. In addition, given the service and depth of the economic and financial crisis between 2008 and 2010, which had particularly negative effects on economic activities associated with investment-related projects and new employment, the economy ministry predicted amendments and additions to the law extending the period of implementation of approved investment projects that started in 2007, the eighth and ninth years in such a way that companies that entered the investment process from those three years in the law had not been able to implement it in those years. So we listened to everything our companies suggest and thus simply relaxed the investment climate. We also believe by this move that there will be neither forced layoff nor that companies will have to, since they used tax benefits, return that money increased with interest. In addition, given that the Investment Encouragement Act has so far allowed the use of incentive measures only for companies, amendments and additions, it is envisaged that investors of incentive investment measures can also be natural persons or craftsmen who are in the profit tax system. This also enables the use of a number of incentive measures so that, even though I say since 2007, not a single craft has even reported a request for the approval of incentives. To a certain extent, we went out not in a certain way, but we completely went out to meet them and allowed them to apply to the status of craftsmen for incentives. I would also like to point out that we have received amendments from the Committee on Law and from the Committee on Economy and that we have fully accepted both. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73876	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73877	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives of the proposing, colleagues and colleagues. This amendment or a proposal to amend the Investment Encouragement Act is on the trail of a whole series of activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which can be called or has a common denominator of the letter of intent or rather one measure which could result well, but ultimately no matter how and how it will result here we have tried. But certainly that key problem, the problem of creating sustainable conditions and effective conditions, above all in the economy in terms of creating new values, is certainly difficult to expect from this bill. And almost certainly this measure will make some kind of shifts more thanks to the toughness of the economy than the real conditions that are safe for that economy. In fact, speaking about the current experiences of the Investment Encouragement Act, I think there is no need because I think that these experiences simply achieve the effects of applying that law since 2007 are so small that they simply waste words and any deception that they achieve some significant effects is enough to look at statistics and the number of unemployed. I think that's enough on one side. On the other hand, it's enough to look at duty, internal indifference, external debt from 2007 to today I think it's clear to everyone and there's no need simply there's no room for any beauty, let alone any argument. It is good that at this point it is a matter of all employment issues, it is quite certain, but employment with a strong growth in the economy, literally in this order. Employment in the public sector at the same time as reducing real sector employees, which is and is happening now, I don't think it's something that pleases and something that we can support. In fact, we think it's a direct damage and it's harmful. Secondly, every measure, especially when we talk about encouraging employment if it is not in correlation if it is not in line with all other measures, then I repeat it according to the position of us in the club of the HNS and HSU at the level of the letter of intent, the effects of what will happen, and if anything happens, it will happen by accident only as it has been a practice so far. Because talking about possible employment exclusively because it will reduce the contribution I think for any serious entrepreneur it is not a measure that will be decisive to make it into its entrepreneurial enterprise. For every entrepreneur when entering his business venture, and entering with one extremely high risk requires a whole series of other measures, mutually synchronised, mutually coordinated, and at this point on the coherence of our measures that our entrepreneurs have, I simply don't think they should be wasting words because they're almost nothing, because they're almost gone. Because if it did, your economy would be in a completely different position. The total drop must have been stopped, and it has been going on for many years. The increase of the unemployed has been for many years. We are trying to compare winter and summer employment here and there, and then we have some reduced unemployment decline that technically doesn't correspond to the fact, and then it's trying to combine different months between two years and it turns out to be a good picture again, but in the end, the picture is bad and irresponsible in that direction, or in that sense, every beauty because it's doing direct damage to the future of this country. That we need one harmony between monetary and fiscal authorities, especially when we talk about exporters, is necessary. That's what we talk about every year, that's what we talk about every time. Croatian National Bank, measures of the Croatian National Bank, at one point rescuers, at another point not to use the word for the economy. It is very clear for the export economy. The monetary policy of the Croatian National Bank for the Export Economy, above all, for the processing industry, is terrible. That's terrible. Why hasn't fiscal policy followed the whole system, the question we've been looking for for eight years because this story doesn't last since yesterday, it doesn't last since the day before yesterday, it's been going on for eight years. The same fiscal policy or the relationship between monetary and fiscal policies has been going on for eight years. Now this bill of law is about to change something, it won't. They won't, except in the area of impressions. Here's yesterday, the day before yesterday, when Chroma had her own reunion. It's the ones who usually get up in the night, and the ones who didn't do entrepreneurship that doesn't know what it means to wake up at night, and by morning you have to find a solution, you have to pay people a salary, you don't have a solution, you sweat five times, you change five times and there's no solution. These people gave 10 measures very clearly the day before yesterday. Anybody at that rally, I'm talking about Chrome. They have proposed very concrete measures, very clear, especially in terms of or in the direction of something that has not been resolved for eight years or has not been resolved or is not trying to get rid of it, where it is escaping from it, which is how these people reduce the marked monetary loss that they cannot influence. I'm talking about exporters. Here's fellow Lucic knows, the wood industry, is the wood industry's fault that it entered the area especially of the final, because as much as you have more built-in additional value, it's a bigger problem for you. The most beautiful thing these people do is load containers with logs thanks to the goodness of the state and beat the hell out of... take 200 to 300 euros in price differences. [[You don't understand.]] Goodness of the state or failure to find the state. And these people here the day before yesterday offered very clear solutions. We at the HNS already offer every few solutions, very quality solutions and thank God that some have entered into the measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that is good and we are satisfied, we are happy about it. But if policy is already a problem not to accept quality solutions, these businessmen gave 10 measures yesterday, they have to do with politics, but they have to do with politics as much as politics makes it impossible for them to develop their business activities and employ people and create a new value. Furthermore, would it be a support to the economy to free them from paying contributions to health care on a gross salary of up to 15%. If almost everyone is unemployed, almost all unemployed have secured health care, they have, we pay from the state budget. So let's free those 15% businessmen, we're reducing the labour price with the obligation to hire them indefinitely. If for two years, he gave it to three years, it doesn't matter at all, but indefinitely because what happens in the system, nothing happens. In fact, according to that model, these people are going to create a new value. Or the assumption is that in a working relationship it will certainly create a new value because now, while they are on the bureau, they are not creating a new value. This could, for example, be one of the measures to encourage employment and investment, etc. As we do not prolong, we at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian party of pensioners will support this bill. It will give the effects of what it will do, probably something a little more powerful than before, because it reduces the limit, extends the deadlines and is in line with European Union legislation, is in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act, one obligation that we have to make, but we do not expect that this bill will achieve more significant effects, more significant measures in terms of and promotion of investment, especially in terms of employment, because I repeat, employment is a question of all issues but only with a strong growth in the economy. Whether it has knowledge and ability we will see, but we at the Croatian People's Party club and the Croatian Party of Retired are aware that this potential and knowledge and ability is not available because if it had these effects would already be visible today, but here we are waiting for eight years, they are not. As I said on several occasions during the debate, the biggest potential of this country is precisely the new elections and electoral legitimacy of the government that will take responsibility for the further leadership of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73878	Thank you. It is the turn of the HDZ Club, on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73879	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here are a few words about this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Investment Encouragement. In any case, listening to the discussion of individual colleagues, I agree that there is not enough resources for encouraging investment but at the same time we need to see and know that we are in a difficult situation and that surely the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the relevant ministries would do everything to give more incentive funds that they are able to do so. The truth may be that when we talk about investment, then maybe if we were to add up and reconstruct, we might be in a position to ask ourselves whether some ministries or some branches have received more incentive funds and some less. At the same time, however, concerned relevant institutions need to cooperate with the economy above all, those branches that are at the source of production, and I am sure that through such a type of cooperation they would achieve mutual satisfaction both in the Ministry and in the economy and only with one goal to achieve the best results in economic terms. When we talk about incentives in the economy then it is only certain that the incentives are bearing fruit but even more would have been more resources because by encouraging production in any branch, and above all I think about those branches that are most represented in Croatia first, it's meditative, it's textile, it's the wood industry. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in just these three branches, it is possible to employ with good incentives very many people, people where this production is not solely for people with high professional training, but rather for production that would, along with incentives, employ a large number of people precisely those who are at the Employment Service, and I am sure that both the Government and the Ministry are doing a good job when these branches have received incentives and the results are certainly visible. By getting out of the economic and world crisis, I am sure that many world markets will open because as we have said here several times, we said that Croatia is one of the last countries to enter the recession but we will also be the last to leave the recession, so I think all those who say that we should have left the recession long ago, we would all love it but at the same time it is not possible. They're wrong, and I'm sure these precisely are the measures the government and the Ministry of Investment Encouragement will give their results. And once again, I repeat meprescriptive, textile, wood industry, these are branches that can give results very quickly at certain meetings and in one informal conversation I have always spoken because I have indeed had experience, when it comes to the economy then I can say that double the incentives in these branches would give not double the results but also far greater. I'm not going to talk about investments in certain branches that haven't given the expected results, and that's why I think we all need to see together which branches in the shortest time period can produce certain results. Therefore, the adoption of the 2007 law on investment incentives is indeed measures that have achieved their results and the minimum investment level that was then approved, amounting to 300 000 euros, subject to the creation of at least 10 new jobs. However, my philosophy and my thinking, therefore my thinking, that with these means we will far more open jobs in the existing branch, especially the one that requires jobs and qualifications for people where there is no condition of high professional preparation. Therefore, the investment incentive system constitutes a total of 6 types of incentive measures from which it is the highest and most attractive tax advantage for investors, which represents a reduction in the profit tax rate of 50 to 100%. Of course in one period of 10 years. Until the entry into the European Union, investors also have at their disposal a customs advantage that allows for the exemption from customs duties on equipment and machinery imported from countries with which the Republic of Croatia has not fully liberalised trade relations. The adoption of the proposed Law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouragement Act will allow for a reduction of minimum conditions for the application of investment incentive measures for projects. Investment of investment laws or investments in projects of technological development, innovation and strategic business support activities resulting and estimated by a greater number of users of the Law. The minimum amount of changes and additions to the Investment Project Initial Investment Act, on incentives, is reduced to 100,000 euros, or as the secretary of state has been said here where at least 5 new jobs have been said. Within a period of 3 years from the start of the investment. In addition, given the complexity and depth of the global economic and financial crisis between 2008 and 2010, which had particularly negative effects on economic activities related to new investment projects and new investment-related employment. The Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship provided for amendments and additions to the Law, extension of the period of realization. Which is logical because during this time period, certain companies have indeed fallen into difficulties and it is certainly very good that the Ministry of Economy has developed ways to extend these deadlines to restore some companies’ production. Of course, some companies were in crisis and were forced to fire workers, but they did not give up fully on the start and planned investments. Some of their planned investments have been delayed for some time, and are also in a situation that they have not realised a minimum investment level during the three-year period as well as the employment of at least ten new workers. In view of all of the above, the ministry has prepared a part of the new law, provisions allowing for the extension of the period of implementation of those provisions of the project to be invested for two calendar years which is very important and is given, therefore, the possibility for each entrepreneur to recover his economy in these two coming years, and that is where the Government and the Ministry gave a new opportunity to anyone who has expressed their interest in achieving certain economic activities. But I have to say a few words here, and what really concerns me is not only since yesterday or the day before that article appeared in the paper, but for a long time now that there is one anti-enterprise economic activity in Croatia from some media people especially from the press and where everyone started to deal with the economy, and above all they started to give a certain assessment of how successful the economy is. But that's not so worrying, it's worrying that these very lists that write about certain companies simply put in place those companies that used or credit funds from Regional Development Funds or any other incentive funds are being placed in a position that simply some others are taking care of them, but that at the same time those in charge of the economy, of production and ultimately to repay these loans are not being asked questions. Why am I talking about the anti-entrepreneur climate? So I am saying for reasons why no other object in the Republic of Croatia was of more significant interest and that it was not even a debate in the Parliament, especially in the media or in the press. What kind of respected colleagues and colleagues are giving me a message to investors who need to come from the European Union. Let's remember the protests in Flower Square, and at the same time that we see this great building of the Hoto Group today, then we certainly give ourselves the right, and I'm sure we can condemn anyone who protested under the password "Right for the City". Today, when this investment is built and we see that no one is bothered by it except that it is a benefit for all citizens, then we can ask ourselves what we do or what those who have received instructions from someone else do, except that they have spent days and nights protesting, and behind them surely someone stood. How many respected colleagues and colleagues today have such investments where some investors wanted to invest in the Republic of Croatia, and these same protesters have initially made it impossible or driven them out of the Republic of Croatia. How many bureaucracys we still have today in our institutions that issue local and licenses, so to build certain objects. Do these same people think that all those who come for these same permits must receive certain documentation in a short period of time. This is precisely on the basis of this article, which came out a few days ago, condemning entrepreneurs who received funds from the Ministry of Regional Development without also asking how busy people are on the basis of these funds. And ultimately, it's not a grant, it's a credit fund that costs under certain conditions. None of these entrepreneurs received funds without having to return them. But at the same time, I ask the question if it's so easy to be a businessman, so why doesn't every single one of these people in this assembly who knows everything about the economy accept such a job. Why doesn't one of them hire not 100 people, but 1 man and give him a personal income every month? No, everyone here is willing to criticise, everyone here is ready to smart, here everyone is ready to say everything needs to be closed by those who are not fulfilling their obligations, and at the same time no one asks what the situation is in the economy and how and how it will be done. Therefore, I have said several times, gentlemen, when you all know how to speak so well, start a company and hire one employee, and here only from one project 7 million and 600,000 kuna, and I claim and stand behind it is employed by 120 people. And at the same time I don't speak here mentioning colleagues from HS products, and at the same time they don't wonder how many people have been hired by this company so far, building a new factory, investing, and at the same time every day stretching them through newspapers, and unfounded because these same journalists are accusing and condemning and passing judgments beyond the rule of law and past those who should do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73880	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73881	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here are the amendments and additions I would like to say a very important regulation for the Republic of Croatia, given the fact that it is a law that has been passed since the time of its adoption, which has been the primary goal of improving the entrepreneurial and investment climate since its adoption, thus achieving the desired level of economic development of the Republic of Croatia. The above objective is to pursue direct investment by domestic and foreign entrepreneurs, above all, in production activities and so on. Greenfield investments, i.e. by encouraging investments that carry new technology transfers, namely products and services with a higher value added level. Therefore, it is about amendments and additions to the Investment Encouragement Act, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 2006 and which has been practically applicable since mid-2007 when an investment promotion regulation was adopted as an implementing regulation. It is also important to say that the current law at the time of adoption was fully in line with all relevant directives and guidelines of the European Union. Of course, with the provisions of the State Aid Act, which means that the applicable law has also been given a green light from the European Commission, but has also been given a green light from our Competition Protection Agency. In the meantime, I will just say that the law provides for six incentive measures, so tax benefits, customs benefits, support for the eligible costs of opening new jobs related to investment, support for eligible costs of investment-related training, incentive measures for the establishment and development of technological and development... Centres and strategic business support activities, as well as incentive measures for major investment projects, or so on. projects of significant economic interest to the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In just over 3 and a half years of application of the Investment Encouragement Act, a total of 169 applications for the use of incentive measures were received, we could hear that in the opening presentation of the Secretary of State, and the certificates of granting the status of the promoter received 73 companies for the total amount of investment of about 3.2 billion kuna, and for the planned opening of 3 thousand 700, 3 thousand 376 new jobs. It's very easy to see how... The planned investment per new job is 856 thousand kuna, so somewhere around 856 thousand kuna, which is practically within the frameworks prescribed in Articles 4 and 12 of the Law, means it moves within these frameworks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, the text of the opening argument, with the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Encouragement Act, can be found that the holders of the incentive measures during 2008, 2009 and 2010 mainly used tax exemptions and grants for eligible costs for the creation of new jobs and for the improvement. Of course, if these are jobs, and they are perfecting with regard to their investments. When it comes to the proposed amendments and the addition of the Investment Encouragement Act, I will only say the most important ones in my debate, so those who in some way substantially amend this law. Well, first of all, I will mention Article 2 and Article 4 of the proposed amendments and additions, which reduce the minimum amount of initial investment from 300 000 to 100 000 euros for investment under Article 11, i.e. investment projects for the establishment and development of technological and innovation activities and strategic business support activities, of course in kuna equivalentness, and the condition of opening up a minimum number of new jobs, from 10, 30, 50 and 70 to 5, 15, 25 or 50 jobs, which of course depends on the total amount of investment in a particular project. Furthermore, Article 6 of the Law in question stipulates that grants for large projects of 5% of the actual costs of building new and upgrading and expanding existing infrastructure facilities and connections, or a maximum of half a million euros, will also be possible in the future for investments in the areas of the Republic of Croatia, where the unemployment rate is more than 20%. Also, for large investment projects and investment projects with a total value of at least 50m euros in eligible costs, it will no longer be possible to increase the maximum aid intensity for small and, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs of 10 and 20 gross percentage points. It should be pointed out here that these provisions, namely the provisions of Article 6 of the amendments in question and the additions of the Investment Encouragement Act, are in line with the European Regional Support Guidelines 2007-2013. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouragement Act allows for the extension of the period of implementation of approved investment projects, whose implementation began during 2007, 2008 and 2010, for an additional two years, which seems to me to be a perfectly logical and wise move by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent ministry, given the overall economic situation in the previous few years. Finally, respecting everything previously said, but above all the importance of this law for the overall economic prosperity and development of the Republic of Croatia, I will personally support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73882	Thank you. It's the Honorable representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73883	I thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So there is only one more in a series of laws and activities carried out by the Government through the implementation of measures planned in the programme of economic recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that is to amend and supplement the Investment Encouragement Act. Encouraging investment within the meaning of this law is a system of incentive measures for investment in economic activities in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the creation of new jobs related to these investments. The measures relate to investment projects in manufacturing economic activity, technological and innovation centres, and strategic business support activities. Since June 2007, when the Investment Incentive Regulation entered into force, a new Investment Encouragement Act has also started to apply and a total of 160 applications have been received by February of this year for the use of incentive measures. The confirmation of the status of the promoter received 73 companies for the planned amount of investment of 3.2 billion kuna, and the planned opening of 3 thousand 736 new jobs. The investment projects selected relate mostly to the metal-processing industry, the production and service of motor vehicles and parts, the textile industry, the wood-processing industry, and others. Of these projects, 21 investment projects or 29% are realised by companies that are wholly or partly owned, and the value of investment by these companies is estimated at 1.4 billion kuna, with the planned opening of 2 thousand 25 new jobs. The most frequently and most used measures under this programme are the possibility of reducing the prescribed profit tax rate in a certain percentage, depending on the level of investment and the number of employees, and customs benefits for the purchase and import of equipment and machinery. This law regulates and this is the most important amendment in my view, that the current definition of the minimum amount of initial investment referred to in Article 11. The investment-enhancing law reduces to 100,000 euros, which is converted into kuna. These existing definitions of the prescribed minimum number of new jobs related to investment projects are reduced by the investment referred to in Article 11. The law on the promotion of investment in minimum job creations. Of course, the adoption of this law expects a greater number of users of these incentive measures due to a reduction in minimum conditions. More new jobs are expected, which of course leads to a further reduction in unemployment. Increased production is expected, leading ultimately to GDP growth. That a global improvement in the business climate in the Republic of Croatia is expected, leading to further development of small and medium-sized enterprises, the opening of new business companies and crafts. It is good that, we heard from the secretary of state, we accept the proposal that, apart from companies, users of these incentive measures will also be craftsmen and that I believe it will also lead to a greater number of users and all of these subsequent means of increasing what we expect both in the number of employees and in increasing production. More than good and significant results are expected by adopting this law in a package with all other measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Economic Recovery Programme in a package with a whole series of programmes conducted this year by the Ministry of Economy and where competitions are ongoing, where funds can also be used for entrepreneurs, craftsmen, young people, women units of local self-government, construction of new economic zones. And I believe that all of this will lead to a reduction in the number of unemployed and that this Economic Recovery Programme together with the Investment Encouragement Act, which is experiencing significant changes that the inability to increase the number of users and resources will lead to the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, I accept the adoption of a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Investment Encouragement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73884	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Zeljko Turk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73885	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So esteemed counterpart Huška, therefore everything that the Croatian Government and the Ministry have been doing lately has really been said here, and especially about the issue of amending this law. But you, as head of local self-government, will probably agree with me that when we talk about investment, and then encouraging investment on that big, heavy, burdened road that potential investors have to go through to actually get to the moment of investment and come. Something that's the legacy of time, history, and, unfortunately, it's a good thing that property relationships and things like this are arranged. It is very often that in certain vast areas unresolved property catastrian grants in times past are a major obstacle to investment. The last regulations certainly made clear the rules, and when it comes to the necessary permits for that purpose, the Government was very quality determined according to the speed of the licence obtained, but often the grants and cadastrian extracts aged 50-50-100 years, and then changes were made in the meantime lateral channels, roads, public roads which are not through so-called. those terrains solved for 50 years actually lead investors to despair. This is not the moment something that is at fault at this point by the Croatian government, but it speaks enough about objective difficulties when and with the money you have or have borrowed or received as an incentive from the state you remain in the inability of quality investment in a shorter time which represents a major problem. And I believe that this is it, and this characteristic and this feature today is a feature of all of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73886	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73887	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you've recognized exactly what bothers us all on the ground when we're trying to animated entrepreneurs to get into a certain city, into a particular community, where we're facing problems. And we as interested, means the leaders of local self-government units, but also those entrepreneurs who know how to lose a lot of time and money, and rarely give up investment when they come across almost impossible obstacles to solving property-legal relations. There's a solution to that. The economic zone programme designed by the Ministry of Economy and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is transferring the ball to the units of local self-government that in time, we predict economic zones, in time to solve property-legal relations, to prepare all the problems that we encounter on the ground and waterways that do not exist, exist only in the cataster and then find ourselves in the middle of a public-water zone where water is not a century away from being prepared, to change and provide entrepreneurs with a quality plot with all the resolved property-legal relations, with a much simpler and faster possibility of getting all the necessary permits and is the perfect model of the economic zone precisely. We have plenty of time to arrange these zones, to publicly equip them, to solve property-legal relations, of course, with the support of the Ministry of Economy and the State Budget because cities, especially smaller, and municipalities do not have enough of their resources. And to offer the entrepreneur a specific zone, a certain green meadow fully arranged with all solved problems. Entrepreneurs who come into parts where no economic zones are certainly facing bigger problems, but I am telling us that we are offered the possibility to prepare quality parcels through economic zones where much faster can be built an economic facility and solve investment than on unregulated green areas, i.e. building areas in cities and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73888	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It's our guest, Daniel Srb, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73889	... State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] So this is one law that I consider a law of unusual importance for the economic development of Croatia. This cannot be just a matter of certain symbols, but it should be a law that will significantly affect the real increase in investment in the Croatian economy. We also need to be aware of the environments in which we live and the fact that just beyond these eastern, southeastern borders of Croatia there is a space in which employees' salaries are incomparably less than in Croatia, which they have at least when it comes to some of the neighbours extremely well solved precisely this investment incentive system. And, of course, in such situations, potential investors evaluate everything. They assess labour prices, labour prices, investments, incentives that can be gained on their own investments and should therefore be concentrated primarily on those groups of potential investors who can choose. They need to be given additional incentives to decide exactly on Croatia, because the means to enter Croatia will depend entirely on our economic development. When we look at the report on what these funds have been spent on in the last four years, so 169 applications, 73 companies have been in a certain way the holders of this project, while the funds are focused on 13.4% of the manufacturing industry, motor vehicle service 11.4%, 10.9 textile industries, 8.4 woodworking, 5.6 production of machines, distribution, logistics, press 5.5. And you need to make one conclusion out of it. It is obvious that, firstly, relatively few applications have been submitted, secondly that certain funds have gone to certain sectors that are neither developmentists nor can allow a large number of employment. It is not necessary to encourage those sectors that will develop themselves in Croatia because they are related to the market, such as motor vehicle services. They cannot go any further than a certain number of inhabitants will be open such services whether they encourage investment or not. When it comes to labour intensive activities, they provide a relatively large number of jobs. But Croatia is precisely the problem of moving from Croatia, leaving these economic activities. We must maintain jobs in this respect because there is a first-class economic problem in Croatia. Of course, that sector employs a large number of people, that it should be preserved. To what extent investments can actually be encouraged to survive in the long term this very economic branch in Croatia, a question that requires a particular consideration. Therefore, I would conclude that I will support this whole law as a sign of good faith, that through different forms of investment, the Croatian economy is developing but we must be aware of it and we must have a law that will really target investors and that will allow us to be more desirable to foreign investors than neighbours, of course, by determining precisely those economic branches for which I estimate that in the next two to three decades will be the bearers of Croatia's economic development. They are most interesting for Croatia and should be given the biggest investment for them. This should not be invested in those sectors that will develop on their own in Croatia because in this case it can only be a favor to someone. To conclude, in a sign of goodwill and a desire to continue to be more significant than this Law, I will support this proposal from the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73890	Thank you. And distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73891	Thank you very much. I'm waiting for the conditions to come because it's too bad. Thank you. No savings, no investments, no economic growth, no economic growth, no employment and so on. Therefore, insufficient investment, investment activity largely determines the economic fate of each country and ours. Savings are a prerequisite for investment, Croatia has a saving greater than ever in history, and investment activity is less than ever in history. Obviously, there are some obstacles that need to be removed. These 6 measures will certainly boost investment but I warn that there are other obstacles that need to be removed in order to make these measures more effective than expected. What obstacles are most often and most important to investment? We often hear it's a state administration and it is, it doesn't need to be kept secret. The state administration acts in different places and it confuses investors. The same investor if he invests in one part of Croatia has, for example, a different approach than in another part where he is disabled in actual action. Different application and selective examples of administration slows down the investment cycle. It is a good measure to reduce the profits of those who invest but I must stress it is not a problem of the level of tax profit in the Republic of Croatia, nor does it detimise the investor. I'll tell you what, I'll quote: "The average profit tax in the European Union is on average 24.32%" in Croatia is 20%. Obviously, that shouldn't be a problem. There are as many as 28% in Denmark's profit tax rate. In the United States 22.7%, in Sweden 27.9%, therefore, tax alone, the profit tax rate is not at all an obstacle to investors in investment activity. The obstacle is that because it is a tax on the activity achieved, on the realization of the activity, obstacles are other natures. Obstructions, I said state administration, and the obstacle is credit activity. Credit activity of business banks, nor is it sufficient and interest rates are too high. For example, two days ago, it was rare that a citizen did not receive a memo from a large bank saying that without any restrictions you can get up to 10,000 euros without guarantees, at 10 years when everything is summed up at 10% interest and imagine then the citizens think 10,000 euros per 10 years, so that's convenient, the yagms get as fast as they get to such a loan and are actually drawn up and cheated. But investing in economic activity can't do without a lower interest rate. The impediment has an insufficient exchange rate of competition, business practices, high investment costs, HEP costs, etc. Barriers are often land books and cadastres that are not even and are not even. There are other obstacles, but I'll cut short so we can have a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73892	Thank you. Does the Proposer want a representative? No, I don't. Then, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I ask that we move to the vote first to supplement the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73893	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouragement Act. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economic Affairs. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment committees and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouragement Act. Please engage, please vote. The result? In agreement with 97 votes, the law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouragement Act was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73894	We continue with the agenda and move on to the point - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 807 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The businessman's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. A businessman. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zoran Šikic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73895	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods relating to Chapters 23 - Justice and Fundamental Rights provides for the harmonisation of the provisions of the Law to the General Administrative Procedure Act. In accordance with this Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, the provisions laid down in the General Administrative Procedure Act concerning time limits for the adoption, the implementation of the eyewitnesses and the implementation of non-financial obligations through third parties have been deleted. In this way, the legal text shall be exempt from the provisions laid down in the new General Administrative Procedure Act in a single and general manner for all parties to the procedure. Furthermore, the proposed amendments and amendments to the law are prescribed that complaints against solutions adopted in the administrative procedure under this law will be resolved by the Board of Appeals at the Ministry of Culture appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the time of 4 years. The establishment of a second-degree commission shall ensure professional and legal control, first-degree decisions by the competent first-degree authorities, and in a procedure that is transparent and timely. Furthermore, as regards the proposal for an amendment to the Legislative Committee on behalf of the Proposer, we accept this amendment, and with regard to the monumental rents or complaints made on first-degree solutions, given that the previous conduct in the second-degree was related to the Law on the Communist Economy. Since the amendments to the laws and additions to that law have been deleted here, this amendment is prescribed directly in such a way that complaints can be filed against the first-degree solutions of the local self-government units to the administrative body of the regional or regional self-government, and in the case of the treatment of the City of Zagreb, the complaint is submitted to the Ministry of Culture. So I conclude that the Proposer accepts this amendment. I ask you to support this draft law in an emergency procedure, and regarding compliance with Chapter 23 - Justice and Fundamental Rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73896	Thank you very much, Mr. Shikic. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. If there's no wish for the committee's rapporteur to further explain we're going to the club debate. Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, distinguished counterpart Bozo Biskupic. Here you go, colleague Bishop.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73897	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. The law on the protection and preservation of cultural goods is a law on heritage, on the preservation of folk memory, because its content speaks not only of material and cultural goods but also of immaterial, on phenomena of folk creation, created and preserved throughout the centuries. Cultural heritage for every nation, and especially for the Croatian people is an important provision for the preservation of a national being, especially at the time of globalisation. Cultural heritage, material and immaterial, is a common wealth of humanity in its diversity and speciality, and its protection is one of the important factors for identifying, defining and affirming the cultural identity of every country and every nation. The Ministry of Culture is developing mechanisms and setting up protection measures to ensure its sustainability, including identification, documentation and research, maintenance, protection and use as well as promotion of cultural heritage values. Cultural heritage also consists of mobile and immovable cultural goods, from artistic, historical, paleontological, archaeological, anthropological and scientific meanings, as well as documentation and bibliographic heritage and buildings, or spaces in which cultural goods and documentation are kept or exhibited. Cultural heritage is also archaeological sites and archaeological zones, cultural landscapes and their parts that testify to man's presence in space and the immaterial forms of cultural heritage and the appearance of man's spiritual creation in the past. We recognize the value of cultural heritage as ancient, historical, cultural, artistic and authentic. The protection and preservation of cultural heritage ensures the sustainability of cultural values, as well as the potential for further development of the Republic of Croatia, its affirmation, the stimulation of economic competitiveness and quality of life in the European environment. It may have to be said at the very beginning that our law that we have proposed on the amendments we are discussing today was, in fact, one of the most modern laws before 2000 when it was passed in '99. Because the law had already been anticipating, in fact, this whole segment that UNESCO added to Kyoto in 2003, 2004, in fact, to the phenomenon of immaterial cultural creation. The measures to protect and preserve heritage include administrative and other activities relating to research, study, monitoring and recording, documenting and moving cultural heritage, central information documentation services, the identification and characteristics of protected cultural goods, the regulation of criteria for establishing public needs programmes in the culture of the Republic of Croatia as well as the care, coordination and management of the financing of cultural heritage protection programmes, the establishment and supervision of institutions for performing jobs, activities of cultural heritage protection, the assessment of the conditions for the work of legal and natural persons on restoration, conservation and other cultural heritage protection activities. In fact, because of the importance of protection and preservation of cultural heritage, it is part of the government's programme strategy for 2011-2013 and they concern the revision and publication of the entire register of cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia, research and documentation and inventory of cultural goods, the development of complete protection and conservation programmes of cultural goods, as well as systematic monitoring of the state of cultural goods. In the final phase, the creation of a strategy for the protection of the preservation and economic use of cultural heritage is 2011.-2015. In fact, the awareness of this is not yet sufficiently developed how important cultural heritage is in both the tourist economy and the economy of the country at all. Therefore, there is still much work to be done on. These proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods are prescribed that complaints against first-degree solutions adopted in a legally defined administrative procedure will also be resolved by the Board of Appeal. This commission at the Ministry of Culture is appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the time of 4 years. The commission is an expert body composed of experienced experts, conservation activities, different professions. These are art historians, architects, ethnologists, archaeologists, lawyers and others who are permanent members, and their task is to assess the correctness of professional solutions from the aspect of their profession, and according to the provisions of the applicable legal regulations. Depending on the subject of the administrative procedure in the commission's work, experts from other professions, e.g. builders, urbanists, planners, chemists, biologists and others. The establishment of a second-degree panel shall ensure professional and legal control of first-degree decisions by the competent first-degree authorities in a procedure that is transparent and timely. Therefore, the conclusion is that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the amendments to this law because we hold that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods will ensure more effective implementation of measures to protect and preserve cultural goods in the legal procedure, taking responsibility from competent conservative bodies and other interested investors, users or owners, and make it impossible to break legal provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73898	Thank you very much. It's your turn, colleague Šetić, for individual discussion because there are no more clubs. Here you go. A colleague of Nevio Štić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73899	Thank you. I was hoping it was another club, but here's the debate. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs. So this is about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. I will not owe it either, but I will say that I support the adoption of this law, which is more related to the accession process of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Namely, compliance with the acquis of the European Union as one of the measures in Chapter 23. Justice and fundamental rights are provided for an analysis of compliance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. By looking at this law, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods under the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods has been deleted by provisions governed by the Law on the General Administrative Procedure, which relate to time limits for the adoption of a solution, to the provision of eyewitnesses and to the implementation of non-financial obligations through third parties. In this way, the legal text is also exempt from the provisions laid down by the new General Administrative Procedure Act in a unique and general way for all parties in the procedure. Since the General Administrative Procedure Act provides for the possibility of a solution without a prior statement by the party. This law lays down in which cases it is possible to do so, such as establishing preventive protection, establishing the properties of cultural goods, temporary suspension of works, and in cases of inspection supervision. This ensures the rapid and effective handling of the competent body of the conservation department of the Ministry of Culture, i.e. the City Institute for the Protection of Cultural and Nature Monuments. In particular, in cases where cultural well-being is directly threatened or where measures need to be taken for the purpose of its illegal exportation from the Republic of Croatia. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law stipulate that complaints against solutions adopted in the administrative procedure under this law will be resolved by the Board of Appeals at the Ministry of Culture appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the time of 4 years. The establishment of a second-degree commission shall ensure professional and legal control of first-degree decisions, competent first-degree authorities, and in a procedure that is transparent and timely. I would also like to make clear with the infringement provisions that the natural and legal person who commits the offence in the conduct of archaeological and underwater archaeological excavations, the research will impose measures prohibiting the carrying out of activities and parts of activities for up to one year if the offence is particularly difficult. You know there's a lot of cases like this in us. This provision prevents the recurrence of infringements by persons carrying out their activities in such a way that non-compliance with the rules is acceptable. And I would just like to say that the adoption of the proposed law will carry out further harmonisation of the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods with the Law on General Administrative Procedure, and the improvement of certain provisions of the law in order to effectively apply the same in practice. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73900	Thank you very much, colleague Šetić. Here's a colleague of Janjic's going to be... It is up to the distinguished counterpart, Šima Djurdjevic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73901	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As already stated here before us is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. The Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods "National Journal" 69, from the 1990s, 151 from 2003, 157 also from 2003 and two corrections in 2009 and 2010 are governed by types of cultural goods, the establishment of protection against cultural goods, the obligations and rights of cultural goods owners, concessions and concessions on cultural goods, measures to protect and preserve cultural goods, and other issues related to the protection and preservation of cultural goods. As regards the procedure for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and the harmonisation of the regulations of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union as well as one of the criteria in Chapter 23. – The judiciary and fundamental rights are provided for an analysis of compliance with the provisions of the Law on General Administrative Procedure of the "National Journal" 47 of 2009. The adoption of this law will carry out further harmonisation with the General Administrative Procedure Act and improve the provisions of the law in order to make the law more effective in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73902	We don't have any other applications. Therefore, I conclude the debate. The promoter says there was nothing controversial that should be further clarified, so he's not answering either. And that's why I'm closing this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73903	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. The proposer has accepted the amendment committees and is not voting on them, becoming an integral part of the law. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. Please engage, please vote. The result? I find that with 90 votes for and 1 abstention, the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods has been passed along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73904	And we're going to move forward on the agenda, and we're going to do - the Final Proposal for the Law on Educational Inspection, with the final proposal of the law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 788. You received the act by mail. When voting on the agenda, we agreed and found that the law was passed by emergency procedure. Amendments as we know from the Rules of Procedure may be submitted during the duration of the debate. The debate on the Law on Educational Inspection was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. And we received the amendment along with reports from the board. On behalf of the promoter here is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports esteemed Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73905	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Let me give you an opening word on the proposal for a new Law on Educational Inspection. So it's a law that was passed back in 1995, which was slightly changed two years later. Since then, there has been no changes to this law, and since then you have witnessed a lot of news in the education system. A number of other regulations have been passed, so let me mention only some of whom you have witnessed and when you adopt here, which is the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary school as a single law instead of the former two Laws on Fundamental and Secondary Education. The Law on the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education has been adopted, the Law on Professional Education, the Law on Adult Education. New collective agreements have been adopted both fundamental and border collective agreements. And these are all reasons why this law should be brought into line with all that could be done effectively. Furthermore, some more happened in 2001 as of July 1st, there was partial decentralisation in funding and in the management of school institutions, which is one of the reasons why this law needs to be changed more radically. Finally, we need to comply with the Law on General Administrative Procedure, and it also applies to Chapter 23, and we have made it our obligation to pass this law. The overall non-compliance of certain surveillance segments with the possibility of giving adequate measures brings educational inspectors into the position that they are unable to act effectively in certain situations. The current, to illustrate only one example, of the current course of action in the second instance, implies the identification of relevant facts only by taking into account the documentation already contained in the specific case. The necessary complementarity of the factual situation is now possible only in such a way that the subject is returned to the educational inspector for the re-trial, with a guide on what facts should possibly still be established. Introducing the possibility that an authorised officer, by solving in the second instance, may, through independent inspection supervision, identify relevant facts that are missing and resolve the case to a scale, ensure effective satisfaction of the public interest and the interests of the parties in the proceedings. In view of the fact that it is the officials who have to meet the requirements of a higher education inspector, and they are only different from those who carry out inspection tasks in the second degree, it is not about a new calling or an increase in the complexity of the business. For these reasons, we propose in this legislative solution that the first stage be implemented in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and the second stage to implement a special commission appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In this way, what has not been done so far will actually be made possible. Speaking of which, this job will be done by educational inspectors, and senior education inspectors. We've noticed here you've reduced the number of years needed previous work experience, both in the case of educational inspectors and in the case of senior education inspectors. So it was 10 and 6, knowing the reality of the real situation we're proposing here to reduce it to 3 and 4. The truth is that the amendments sent by the committee say something different, so by tomorrow we will certainly discuss it and determine ourselves according to these amendments that have been submitted. We've always been open to your suggestions, and of course you've helped us make legal solutions as good as possible, so we'll do it this time. In fact, we move from one state administration body to another, because so far both degrees have been in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which is not good, and the General Administrative Procedure Act speaks differently. Further let me say a few more details. This law regulates the following issues, effective conduct in the first and second stages, tasks in which the areas of supervision are precisely defined for the smooth functioning of the educational system, as well as working methods, rights, duties and powers of the educational inspection, establishing the basis for a higher level of responsibility in the conduct of educational inspectors and supervised entities. We therefore propose here exactly the tax-listed measures that can be imposed in the course of inspection, which relate to the removal of failures, deficiencies and irregularities within certain deadlines, refer to orders, prohibitions, which are subject to resolutions, infringements are further issued, indictments are submitted if necessary, and fines are charged, when the law provides. The Educational Inspector, also in the event of a violation of the law, may submit written notice, so to the authorised person in the institution, may propose a regular or extraordinary termination of the worker's employment contract, may propose to the school board a discharge of directors. By passing this law, all these assumptions will be feasible, and the assumption are actually for the good functioning of the educational inspection according to the requirements, on the one hand the educational and educational activities, and on the other hand the legal system, meaning both should be harmonised. The responsibility of all supervisory entities, supervised institutions and responsible persons in the institutions, as well as persons subject to supervision, shall be strengthened, as shall the responsibility of the inspector contained in Article 39(2). All of this significantly improves the functionality of the system as a whole, since better quality supervision of the legality of work in the educational activity is a prerequisite for quality work of the system that satisfies the highlighted public interest. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, here's this much in the opening section, and let me address this House for a little while after the debate is concluded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73906	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. Do the club reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. If it's not on behalf of the clubs, we do, I asked on behalf of the board, now it's the clubs. I see you're confused. It's in the name of the clubs. On behalf of the clubs is the turn of the HDZ club, and distinguished colleague Nevio Šetić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73907	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your honor of the Secretary of State with your associate. Allow a few thoughts on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club on the proposal of the Law on Educational Inspection with the final proposal of the law. In fact, this law is really a mirror of our education system because all where there are doubts, they appear here, but since in good faith we all build together this system which is dynamic, fast, changes are daily, then and in this way it seems to me that this is an important step, a quality step for clear and quality questioning of the problems we have, and what inspection should be done. And as the Secretary of State said, this law, the Law on Educational Inspection, was passed in 1995, and you can imagine what has been changed since then, with minor changes and additions in 1997, has since come into force by more general and specific laws, and other regulations and collective agreements that have a significant impact on the conduct of educational inspectors, with which this Law on Educational Inspection does not comply. It's also about understanding the system, and about one teamwork of people who lead, but also very specific situations like this. The entire education system is partially decentralised, I would say more technically than others, both in terms of founding rights and in terms of funding and governance, which also affects the work and powers of the educational inspection. In particular it was necessary to comply with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, and in accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 6 October 2010. The non-compliance of certain surveillance segments with the possibility of giving adequate measures brings educational inspectors into a position that they are not able to act effectively in certain situations. The current course of action in the second degree implies the identification of relevant facts only by taking into account the documentation already contained in the specific case. The necessary complementarity of the factual situation is now possible only in such a way that the subject is returned to the educational inspector in the re-trial with a guide on what facts should possibly be further established. Introducing the possibility that an authorised official, acting in a second instance, may, by means of independent inspection supervision, identify relevant facts which are missing and resolve the measure of the case, ensure effective satisfaction of the public interest and the interests of the parties in the proceedings. Since it is a matter of officials who have to meet the requirements of a higher education inspector, they are different from them only because they carry out inspection tasks in the second degree is not about a new calling or an increase in the complexity of the business. This Law on Educational Inspection sets out the following questions: effective action in the first and second stages of inspection, educational inspection tasks within which control areas are precisely defined for the smooth functioning of the educational system, as well as the mode of work, the right of duty and the powers of the educational inspection, which determines the basis for a higher level of responsibility in the conduct of educational inspectors and supervised entities. The adoption of this law will ensure more appropriate legal assumptions for the functioning of the educational inspection in accordance with the requirements of the educational and educational activities of the legal system. The responsibility of all supervised entities and supervised institutions and responsible persons in institutions as well as the supervisory authority shall be strengthened. This significantly improves the functionality of the system as a whole because better quality supervision of the legality of the work of the educational activity is a prerequisite for the quality of the work of the system that satisfies the highlighted public interest. That is why the HDZ Club supports the adoption of this law, and it seems to us that this is such a step that creates the basis as well as the entire education system for one common growth. One growth ahead of us. Since the Committee on Education, Science and Culture has discussed and adopted certain amendments, I must refer to them because they seem to be improving the legal proposal itself, and I believe that for the application of this law, a high awareness of understanding is needed, and I believe that our inspectors will first and foremost carry out it legally, but with responsibility and with the most extensive, what needs to be done in this area. I just want to look back here at some parts and amendments that have been made in the field of education inspection. In fact, who can be an educational inspector, that's one very important question. And the board had a principled observation that competence should not be entered into the technical equipment with which we agree, but that the work experience should be a little longer. We are all aware that it is very difficult to find lawyers who have experience working in education, it is a fact. But there are people who have that experience and where it's being followed. So it's for the inspector, and this amendment no. 1st necessary, i.e. Amendment No. 2. at least 4 years of work experience and high professional preparation, and that for the senior inspector 6 years earlier was now proposed by this proposal for 3 years and 4 years. It seems to us that this improves significantly and thus shows that when someone decides on a job like this, he takes on a very demanding responsibility. I would also like to say something about the amendment in Article 12 of which the way of work, the right, the duty and the authority of the Educational Inspector is spoken. And that's where you can see how the job is arranged. Of course, the inspection procedure is initiated on official duty. Of course, the director or director, the head of the design unit, shall decide on the initiation of the inspection procedure. The Director of the Administration may, on his own, authorise the conductor of inspection operations to decide independently for a specific territory on the initiation of the inspection procedure. In addition, by launching the procedures referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article, the self-executor shall be obliged to inform the Director of the Administration. It is therefore necessary to take account of the urgency of the subject on which the inspection procedure is initiated and the conduct of the procedure in complex cases to be deployed to a senior educational inspector. It seems to us that this is good and legally arranged because exactly what we all want and we want to believe in good faith that this flexibility, that understanding wants to be realized, but it has to be here and directed because the board is dominantly trying to point it out. But one thing is the debate, and one thing's real is they're gonna feel through a legal solution. It seems very good to me, because with this tactfulness, with this approach, we can make it far better for the inspector to work on the one hand, the chief inspector and the administration, and on the other hand, supervised entities to prepare themselves and prepare themselves and try to remove. I want to say because of our public and our representatives and MPs that there is a very precise procedure here, and when the inspector acts at the point where he orders something or orders the removal of these procedures, the lack, or unpredictability in setting the deadline, now I will not read it all, it is very precise, of course, by the basis of the normative acts. The inspector will establish and order surveillance, but the inspector will establish and prohibit it. It will also participate in emergency measures when they are put up with it immediately. I would like to say that we also have an amendment in Article 24, or a committee has one, and the HDZ Representatives Club supports it, in Article 24 of the day, it is possible that the inspector can charge the fines at the school on the spot. So it's exactly like this: "Play the fine." It seems to us that this word charge would be necessary to replace it with a determination. And it would be a little awkward for the inspector to come out, take out a note and write 100 or 500 on the spot, I don't know how many kunas, but if that's what I need, in a slightly more appropriate way, it seems to me. Because that madness sometimes brings us into absurd situations even though it's probably the punishment that deserves the perpetrator. But there is one dignity. And you know that in schools exactly that something that needs to have a teacher, a teachership and everything that seems to have to be protected, so it seems to me that they might accept that amendment. And not to be too long, in the appeal procedure, it seems to me that it's a good thing that appeals to the second degree do not delay any urgent solutions. And that seems good to me, because sometimes there are such events in school that there are 18 cases described here, and there may be more, when indeed an inspector in a particular situation can bring an unsustainable measure which, regardless of the appeal possibility to a second degree, can be carried out immediately. Not to get into the details now, that I don't take much time just once again I want to say that the HDZ Club supports the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73908	Thank you very much. Next up is the HSS club, a respected colleague, Boris Klemenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73909	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. As we have already heard, there are several reasons why the Law on Educational Inspection is proposed. In independent Croatia, it was first adopted in 1995, but since then, several other general and special laws have come into force, and sublegal acts that are interrelational, i.e. have an impact on the behaviour of educational inspectors. Due to the adoption of a large number of laws in the field of education, the system is decentralised, which also affects the powers and work of the educational inspection. Also in January 2010, the new General Administrative Procedure Act entered into force. Following this, the proposed draft law proposes a solution to certain non-compliant provisions, shortcomings, as well as indeterminates in a way that regulates the conduct in the first and second stages of inspection, regulates the tasks of the educational inspection with the precise definition of the area of supervision, and regulates the way of work, rights, duties and powers of the educational inspection. Article 15(1) states that it is possible to examine a student in the presence of parents and an expert associate in order to determine the actual situation. We at the HSS Club believe that the proposed provision is welcome, because despite the well-meaning and professionality of most teachers and teachers, occasional abuses by the same ones are possible and, of course, stop and sanction in time. In addition, Article 22(1) states that an inspector can be prohibited from a supervised institution, and therefore points out in point 6 that the use of the supplementary teaching tool will be prohibited. Understandable is the intensity of such a provision since in the past 10 years there has been an escalation of the number of textbooks and curriculas, all at the expense of parents and of course students, and often with the purpose of meeting the personal unwarranted needs of teachers. However, due to poor experience, it must not be taken away from the ability of many excellent teachers to use some additional teaching means, so as to prevent students and their parents from having to participate financially in the same. Excellence should always be encouraged and stimulated, not disabled, so this kind of ban can be read as a means of suppressing excellence and so forth. Article 32 provides for whom the inspector is obliged to submit the minutes and the solution and states that the same is to be delivered to the worker only in the event that a specific action is ordered, prohibits or imposes any other obligation. At the HSS Club, we think or think that this decision should be partially amended in a way that equally delivers the minutes and solutions to the supervised worker, even in a situation where the result of the surveillance is favourable to him. The HSS Club advocates the adoption of this law because it can contribute to the removal of undesirable phenomena in the field, although the proposed one does not regulate the issue of inspection supervision in the case of an over average rating, which is often the case in suburban schools in rural areas, and gives the possibility to carry out the duties of an educational inspector insufficiently professionally competent persons, i.e. persons who do not have a state expert exam and are not provided for the possibility of external evaluation of the work of educational inspectors who decide to sanction the work of teachers. Finally, despite these objections, the HSS club will support this bill because it believes it contributes to the creation of a better education system in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73910	Thank you, fellow Clemenich. The other clubs didn't sign up. We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Romana Jerkovic doesn't have a right to debate. Dear colleague Shime Djurdjevic is here, so I give him my word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73911	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, the secretary of state and his colleague, Šetić, and himself on our parent committee, no matter what the changes and additions were made in one reading, we met two to three times and considered every segment here that was brought forth, of course to get the best law on educational pedagogical inspection. It's been said here that I'm not going to do it again. I'm going to do it through my argument, so I'm going to apologize in advance. The law was passed in 1995 following in 1997, and since then, more general special laws and other regulations have come into force, collective agreements that have a significant impact on the conduct of educational inspectors with which the Law on Educational Inspection does not comply. The non-compliance of individual segments with the possibility of giving adequate measures brings an educational inspector in a position that in certain situations they are not able to effectively have not been able to be, I would say, to be able to act effectively. This Law on Educational Inspection regulates the following issues of effective action in the first and second stages of inspection, educational inspection tasks within which surveillance areas are clearly defined essential for the smooth functioning of the education system, as well as mode of work, rights, responsibilities and powers of educational inspection, which determines the basis of more levels of responsibility and the conduct of educational inspectors and supervised entities. The adoption of this law will ensure appropriate legal assumptions for the functioning of the educational inspection in accordance with the requirements of educational and legal activities and systems. The responsibility of all supervised entities and supervisory institutions and educational persons and institutions as supervised persons shall also be strengthened. This significantly improves the functioning of the system as a whole because more quality control over the legality of work in the educational activity is a prerequisite for quality work of the system that satisfies the highlighted public interest. Ladies and gentlemen, I also support the amendment and supplementation of the Law on Educational Inspection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73912	Thanks a lot, buddy. A respected colleague, Miljenko Doric, continued to apply for an individual debate. Here you go, fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73913	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to contact the club because at the same time I had a Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, but I would like to say a few words about this law. In fact, we agree with the basic questions that need to be resolved because they really need to be resolved. What bothers us at the HNS-HSU club is the fact that for many years we can give the Educational Inspection relatively modest grades and we are dissatisfied with its work. True, it was not easy for educational inspectors because the law that we see in the opening part of this proposal was not in line with many other laws, with the Labour Act, with the Law on General Administrative Procedure, with the Infringement Act, with the Law on Education and Education at primary and secondary school with the Law on Adult Education, etc., etc. What's really bothering us, I have to admit, it's a lot of trouble, so we know 10 years, 15 years for all shortcomings. We're not doing anything to get to the bench after 10, 15 years of emergency procedure. Why, by emergency procedure, and for 10, 15 years, we all know what shortcomings are and what needs to be eliminated and how things should be changed for the better. So that's really not correct, I'm asking you, here's the secretary of state, whether it wasn't for the harmonisation of our legislation under Chapter 23 and today this law came to our benches at all. Probably the answer would be no, if you're correct and objective, no. So that's not good. We cannot push all the laws under the EU and then by emergency procedure. Why is it that we are not allowed to put this law into regular procedure, to go through a detailed article by article, and finally to sum up this law as everyone would like it to work? I'll just add something personal here. Ten years ago, I was extremely disappointed when we learned that many officials and tenants with fake diplomas work in public services. You remember that affair. So if we went through that phase, if we saw that we really needed to control a lot of things that didn't happen, and then they didn't happen to get these people into the state administration system. I'm asking you today if these same people who then allowed this failure to happen without checking the expertise and education of the people employed in the state administration, will these people who then made the failure be rewarded as inspectors or senior inspectors in that area. It's certainly interesting to see who's going to behave. I personally have to say that these seem to me to be 25 inspectors, right, there aren't many, 20 and something, for some people I've heard really the most beautiful grades, I have to say, but for some I can't say very much about it. Therefore, we also have personnel problems, not just legal, sublegal, etc. I have to say it very openly. I won't be long because I was too late to sign up in front of the club when I had an obligation to do other things, so now I've turned this into a personal exposure, but I'm sorry the Secretary of State has not been accepted, and you've heard that there have been a lot of good suggestions on the board, the parent committee, that this law is still done in a regular procedure, and that between the two readings we're putting as many good suggestions as possible so that even in the next 10 years this service, this inspection service doesn't work the way it's supposed to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73914	Thank you very much. We've exhausted individual reports as well. Do you want a colleague, Janjic? Yes, go ahead. State Secretary Željir Janjic, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73915	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, thank you for all that has been said in this debate. In particular, thank you for the proposed amendments that will certainly improve the provisions of this law and allow me to take note of the proposed amendments of the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture when voting. In fact, I would now be in a position to accept the amendments and say that I accept in a changed form because we have, say, one directory in the amendment listed in the plural, and it was actually supposed to be in the single, and then it would not be correct according to the Rules of Procedure, so we will leave it to vote when I declare all the amendments. But when it comes to the voices of certain debates, let me just tell you for a little while. There have been such suggestions, I can see that it's now made into an amendment. So, once in a situation, the inspector has made an emergency measure and, among other things, when it comes to the Law on textbooks and one provision contained in the Law on textbooks as a special law, where it is clearly said that there cannot be textbooks in the school institution that are not in the catalogue of approved textbooks. If an educational inspector would not be authorized to give an immediate measure of banning such a textbook, you know what might happen? It could happen that in the follow-up to geography someone comes up with a textbook in which a map of Croatia is without Baranja, and then somehow if it wasn't banned in some kind of procedure you know how to go, it's banned by a solution, and then it's 15 days of time for appeal, and then a 15th day someone complains, an authorized person, say, and then it goes to another stage, and then it goes nicely to you for, say, a couple of months. And then I ask you what our professional public in such a situation would say about how educational authority is incapable of banning such things at the moment. And that's one of the reasons, respected MPs, which we'll be showing on the amendments when the time comes, with the acceptance of all the amendments that are certainly correcting the law and what our home council has done to us many times and thank them for that. Let me just briefly refer to what the esteemed representative Doric, vice president of our parent committee, said when it comes to emergency procedures. This, dear Professor Doric, for mentioning an emergency procedure, I just have to remind you that the answer would not be no if we were to say frankly, but the answer would certainly be yes. So now in this time, the law would be in front of you. True, God would not find himself in an emergency procedure but would find himself in a regular procedure. But I must tell you, this law has been long prepared. I'm not going to talk about some subjective difficulties we've had. In fact, we've had a few changes at the head of the inspection department. But this law is my responsibility to you here I can tell you this law we've been preparing since the spring of last year. And I must remind you, professors, that last autumn's law was put into public debate. The law was in public debate until the end of last year and after that we talked to both union representatives and other representatives of the professional public, so that we were about to finish the procedure here at this time. But given the fact and the conclusion of the 6th of October last year, the law entered into an emergency procedure. You yourself have had the opportunity to see that these solutions that we have in this law improved by amendments that we will accept to be incomparably better solutions than we have so far in this law. You also mentioned falsified diplomas, though they are located in some other segments, and you're aiming at something else that's not really schooling. But I have to remind you that when it comes to this, let's say everything that comes from the outside that we've been dealt with in another service in part when it comes to high school testimony that it's been settled in the Department of Joint Programmes in the Prescribation Department and believe me, every year we have about 4 to 5,000 such cases that there are quite a number compared to the previous times of those testimonies we discover that they've been falsified. Of course, in cooperation with the countries from which they come and that we have sent everything in the process to the State's Attorney's Office. Equally, and you certainly remember, and that is what we have set up at the Agency for Science and Higher Education... The office and we're one of the countries, we were exactly the 38th country that's been networking like that and since then, since it's been working... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the office of all that comes, so when we acknowledge and from the value of foreign diplomas, it is also removed from such opportunity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What you're talking about probably refers to starting a working relationship at some point significantly before that when something like this happened. And it's better to find out than never. Here is an apology for not being able to show myself about the amendments at this time, and I will do so next time, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73916	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. I'm also closing this agenda. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73917	Final proposal of the Law on Educational Inspection with the Final Proposal of the Law. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. State Secretary Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73918	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. The first 6 amendments of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Proposer accepts with one note that in the 4th amendment we have a directory of the procedure used in the plural, and should be in one, but the Assembly Service in the entire text will certainly bear in mind so that it should not be accepted in the modified form but thus accepted. Amendment of the 7th Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture, unfortunately cannot be accepted. In particular, Article 34(6) provides that as an emergency measure, an educational inspector may impose a prohibition on the use of textbooks which do not have the Ministry’s approval and are not in the catalogue of approved textbooks. We had such a situation before, of course, the possibility to intervene immediately, let's say from geography that it was a textbook or that it was an additional teaching tool, for example Atlas, a geographical map of part of Croatia, or, for example, without Baranja, and if we accepted this amendment and deleted point 6 then a ban on such a textbook could arise for at least three months. For these reasons, Your Honor, I ask you to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73919	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73920	Thank you. So, the first six amendments of the committee were accepted, the promoter accepted, the 7th was withdrawn. Thank you. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Educational Inspection. Please, let's get on with it. The result? I find that with 76 votes for, 24 abstentions and 2 against the Law on Educational Inspection with the Final Proposal of the Law, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73921	And we're going over here on the agenda, written under regular number 15. - Final draft law governing the rights and obligations of the shipyard in the restructuring process, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 814. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion in the boxes. When establishing the agenda, we voted the urgency of the process, which combines the first and second readings. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy. Reports from the board's session were also delivered to us. We also have amendments. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the proposing representative like to explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Ruđer Friganovic. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73922	I thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Here in front of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Economy we present a proposal on the regulation of the rights and obligations of the shipyard in the restructuring process. It's a very important law. I believe that no one should particularly explain how important the restructuring of Croatian shipyards is for the economic system of the Republic of Croatia, but also an extremely important issue of political character, given that one of the last issues that we are closing under our pre-accession negotiations with the European Union. So, in Chapter 8, which speaks of competition. However, it is primarily to be said that it is one of the key objectives of the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I believe it is not necessary in particular to point out that no one has ever questioned whether Croatia's shipbuilding is necessary. Shipbuilding is one of the last and strongest Croatian industrial globally recognizable brands. But Croatia needs a different shipbuilding, meaning that shipbuilding will bring added value to this society, and will not be constantly dependent on the state budget. In order for this to be possible, it was necessary to carry out comprehensively, i.e. to design comprehensive restructuring programmes for Croatian shipyards. So we are talking about the process that has taken place in the last few years and in the framework of the negotiations on the accession of the European Union. But of course also within the framework of the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The restructuring process was decided to be carried out through privatisation, as it was expected to mean that the private owner would be more efficient and better able to manage shipbuilding sites than it was obviously in state condition. In addition, the private owner will certainly adopt and the idea is that the private owner brings new capital, i.e. his own contribution, which is necessary under the provisions of the State Aid Act. So also the restructuring process as agreed with the European Union. Therefore, the restructuring of large shipyards is carried out in accordance with the Law on State aid but also internationally assumed obligations of the Republic of Croatia. In particular, we are referring to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community and their Member States. Croatia has taken the obligation to bring its support system into line by 1 March 2006 with the meaning of the European Community acquis, however, and de facto Croatian shipyards have been in constant restructuring process since 1 March 2006, which is supposed to mean ending, and here is by passing this law, by accepting these restructuring programmes which are these days at the end, which investors are working intensively on these days. In the process of negotiations with the European Union, it is agreed that in Croatia, Croatia's shipyards will be subject to a slightly lighter criterion of calculating their own contribution, so they will not be asked, as is usually 50 percent of their own contribution, but rather the scale has been reduced to 40%. This means that only shipbuilding and private investors who recognise banks and other market participants who recognise a profitable opportunity in this business must provide at least 40% of the total amount needed to restructure shipyards. Among other things, as one of them, I would say very important moments in the restructuring process have also reached agreement with the European Commission that compensation for agreements on the settlement of property-legal relations in part of the property treated as maritime good in shipyards, so that these fees can be considered their own contribution. We are witnesses that only when these fees entered the privatisation of the shipyard, when these fees actually further reduced the obligations of potential future owners, that only then did we actually get a certain interest and that is the second round of privatisation of Croatian shipyards, for some of them and the third round, as you know which are now ending. The basic procedures which this law actually includes, i.e. the resolution of property-legal relations, the taking over of public debt obligations that have arisen or will arise following the restructuring programme, and the treatment of tax debt after the completion of the privatisation process. Partly I'm something... This aspect of property-legal relations is explained, it is important to note that it is established mutual rights and obligations based on the assessment of independent judicial witches, and the amounts to which the European Commission is familiar, meaning the total amount of 8 billion 155 million 733 thousand 798 kuna transferred to public debt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This debt, up to the level of the debt, is primarily beaten by the protested state guarantees, and is subsequently followed by the acquisition of the censures. So that's how we get to the second point, and that's... the public debt obligations that can result from the restructuring programme, means the total legal guarantees that are currently being issued towards Croatian shipyards, amount to 9.3 billion kuna, and advance guarantees of 2 billion kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This leads to a maximum amount of potential, which can happen to enter public debt, although expectations that this should certainly not happen, at least not in part of the advance guarantees, but means potentially a burden of 11.3 billion kuna. The exact amount that will eventually be converted into public debt will depend primarily on finally accepted restructuring programmes, time of completion of privatisation, contracts, but also on other acts that will be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, some deviations from these figures are possible, although we do not expect significant. It is good to know that only changes in exchange rates within 10 to 15 days can cause these amounts to vary between 100 and 200 and more millions of kuna. The tax debt treatment following the completion of the privatisation process is the fact that the implementation of this procedure, if it is completed and such as the idea of this year's shipyard, will record an extremely high total income, which will mostly be the result of the write-off. In such a situation it would be, if it were already to be restructured, relatively illogical to expect that shipyards for profit that can be shown from such transactions, and it would indeed prove to be in very high amounts, salaries and taxes on profits, but also other public charges, because I remind you that from recently these shipyards have signed a concession on 1% of total income, and there are other public revenues coming from total income, which in this case I would dare say more accounting than category rather than actually resulting from the business process. As a result, this law leaves the possibility to mean that the part which could prove itself to be before that would be expected to cancel that part of the right to transfer tax losses in order for that part that would remain after this transaction to be written off and not represent a state, would not constitute additional state support, as this would again burden us again with the restructuring process. Of course, this was also agreed with the European Commission and the European Union during these negotiations. So the potential amount to be transferred to public debt, I repeat the amount of $11.3 billion, the exact amount will be known at the time when all the parameters of these transactions are defined, but we don't expect it to exceed that amount. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the completion of the shipbuilding process, but also because of the closure of Chapter 8 of the Competition, and the nature of the proposed measures, it is proposed that this law enter into force on the day of its publication in the "National Journal". Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73923	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73924	I'm sorry. Here's just another addition. So we got the amendment of the Legislative Committee, and we fully accept it, it's about one nomotechnical correction in Article 5 of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73925	Thank you very much. We also heard about the amendment. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73926	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry that the assembly is so empty because, apart from the State Budget, this House, except for the return of debt to the pensioners, has never discussed a great financial commitment like this. And although some may say that this law is quite principled, so to speak, however, the Law on Law-Making and Obligation of Shipyards in the restructuring process in its reasoning provides a series of information about which it may have been mentioned earlier after this speaker by a representative of the Government, but unfortunately many have remained deaf and blind to that data. But with everything Mr. Secretary of State has said, there are some things that we need to remember for the simple reason that this is a document that will tomorrow create a commitment to the state budget of at least 11.3 billion and perhaps more. So, above all, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in the 5th month 2001 was signed that Croatian shipyards would be restructured by 31.03.2006. Whether at that moment there was even a real possibility to do it or one back-to-back document signed brought us into a path-position. However, we can talk today in one way or another, but today we have to implement the Restructure Programme and for the first time this Government led with Mrs Kosor has made a systematic proposal. And this just shows us that certain processes that have to be done at some point no matter how long we delay them eventually we have to do them just to cost us a little bit more. So let me look back on a few things. First of all, property-legal relations, since the shipyards had no clear basis for the law until the Maritime Good Act was resolved, what is the status of their property on the maritime good. The second thing, let's not forget that by the government's decision, I think it was 2001 if I'm not mistaken, Shipyard 3. May" out of their property exclusively somewhere around 100 million assets, very attractive property in the Rijeka and wider area probably from some ambition of someone. However, fortunately, that property remained so that it could return to ownership "3. Maya." So, after a series of tensions, talks, negotiations and with the State Attorney's Office, the maritime welfare was finally defined in 2008 and 2009, and the model was defined how shipyards could be damaged, how to give them compensation for what is on the maritime good. And then the evaluations were carried out and the secretary of state said what these amounts were and these amounts are not negligible at all, they are quite large. So the total estimate of the shipyard's property on the seaboard is 8 billion 155 million kuna. It is good that the European Commission, therefore, has given the possibility to consider it its own contribution by entrepreneurs to the restructuring of the shipyard and thus has virtually reduced directly the amount it owns. the shipbuilding site should be placed as its own share in the restructuring programme. And what does that look like in the shipyards? Like this, "Brodosplit" and "BSO" 2 billion 897 million and 300 thousand, "Brodotrogir" 634 million 346 thousand, "3. May 3 billion 219 million 435 thousand 997 kuna, Queen 368 million 660 thousand 434 kuna and Oilbillion 035 million 990 thousand and 813 kuna, or as I said 8 billion 155 million 733 million and 798 kuna. E, since this was found to be the obligation of the state to shipbuilding sites to compensate for their property on the maritime good, but at the same time we have the obligations of the shipyard to the Croatian state. So only in the last 3 years, so in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, 3 billion 356 thousand 767 million and 489 million guarantees were protested during the first 5 months, and 489 million guarantees were protested. So it's been charged from the state budget – 2008. 289 million, 2009 billion and 898 million, 2010. 772 million and 2011 so far 395 million. So these 3 billion and 356 million have been charged so far only in the last 3 years. In addition, at this point, there are 11 billion and 300 million left that active credentials make advance guarantees. So the active 9 billion 300 and this advance 2 billion guarantees. So a total of 11 billion 300. Or when you look back in '96. By 2011, the total state of shipyards had provided 49 billion 983 million guarantees. Not all guarantees are charged, one part of the loan has been returned or shipyards, but let us not forget that in 2001, in fact, in 2001 to 2003, 8 billion kuna spent on the shipbuilding programme. If we add these 3.5 billion Protestant guarantees, that's 11 billion. When we take these 11.3 billion, but these are non-interest guarantees, so when it comes to these guarantees, given that the guarantees that are in most cases days by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for loans that are quite short-term maturity, so to speak, for the reason that we and the Competition Protection Agency had to look for a model to give these guarantees, so when these 11 billion and 300 are charged even more interest, then that amount is far higher. Why am I speaking so carefully and in detail about this amount? For the simple reason that all the violent attacks of the union first and foremost on the Prime Minister, when these arguments arise, they lose power. Because let's go look at all the economic branches they get. No one slows the importance of shipbuilding, no one slows the importance of shipbuilding, but also these are simply facts that we cannot ignore. Facts I can't let go of. The facts that are here and therefore I say it is good that this law was found in front of this House of Commons, I am sorry to say that the great midwives for Croatian shipbuilding that are long-sighted only at the moment when trouble and panic are to be made, and in the decisive moments that Brussels needs to make some kind of decision, they are not going to say their opinions today. They were ready at the moment and decided that they would give a guarantee even though they knew it was against the law that it could not go, but it is important to collect political points and people working in Croatian shipyards that were neither to collect nor to give political points but to keep their jobs, give them some false hope. So these are mathematical indicators, and these are facts that we shouldn't simply run away from, these are facts that don't need to close our eyes, and these are facts that simply tell us that tomorrow, in some similar cases, we shouldn't act this way for a simple reason, because in time we did a restructuring program, because look at this restructuring program, it won't be any different than we did in 2005 or 2003, the only thing that will cost us far less, and maybe even under more unfavourable conditions. And this programme of restructuring through privatisation is a proposal from the Croatian side because we thought it would be a simple way to create a restructuring program. And now as far as the bill itself is concerned, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would ask just a few questions and suggestions for the simple reason that as the leading party in the ruling coalition, it is in the interest that certain statements and certain provisions regulated by this law be clearly shown and shown so that tomorrow no one would say that the Parliament has made such a decision and the Government is based on this because you will see that later I will tell the Government that it is possible to adopt certain rules to solve some problems. So, just for those reasons, I'd like to make things right because I don't think some of the things in the explanation are simply as well engaged as it is. at the 8th station below at point a,d,3.i says: "If the same profit is not the result of regular business activity in order to enable the restructuring to be carried out by this proposal, it is proposed to demonstrate the tax debt" etc. It's just not a good definition. Why? Because the funds for compensation for maritime goods are the funds of shipyards that were spent at some point in time and these funds were the cost and were at some point the cost of depreciation and reduced profits. So it's profit from regular business activity only that it was later administratively implemented in some other way. It may not be good even for the European Commission to see this reasoning, it is not good. It's simply the basis of this compensation for maritime well-being to explain that everyone knows and for the sake of the record, so it gets into the profits of the companies. Shipyards will have a profit that the constitution will not have, they will have to pay 20% of the profits they do not have, and in principle they will find themselves in a tax problem that they do not have and therefore want to settle this tax debt. Furthermore, the follow-up to this sentence: "the tax debt expressed and the other public duties are primarily beaten with tax losses." Other public contributions are a concept that simply cannot be found in any law relating to finance. There's no public spending. It must be clearly defined that this applies to taxes, that it refers to contributions for the reasons that these contributions are not paid by accident, so I prejudge, I don't know what it will be, but if it happens that the contributions are not paid by accident we are not paid if we take over ourselves to write off these contributions we have to agree with the Pensions Office that they write down to themselves that they are paid for the simple reason that tomorrow they would not happen for the shipbuilding employees not to recognise their work experience because they have not been paid a contribution. So, I'm talking clean because someone wouldn't have problems in five or ten years, and the law was made for the best. It is therefore better to say tax debt here that should specify all taxes, contributions, health and pension if there is, if it is, value added tax. Another thing about public debt is often mentioned by the local community's claims and claims of state-owned enterprises. It simply needs to be defined, if we as a state make a decision then we can only make what is in the power of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government. And these are claims given why I'm speaking here in the light of this law? For the simple reason that it is not sufficiently defined in the law itself, then it should either be explained in the law or amended by the explanation of this law, you write that you know exactly what it is, because I say it can later create a lot of problems. And finally, all of these write-offs, all of this will have to be made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with precisely the amounts indicated, the IRS will base the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia precisely on a day of interest with all accounts in the accounts. So that's why I'm telling you to do it. And what's very important is that tomorrow we don't have what happened to us now with the Split Iron, you know it well. If something is said at the moment that it is not support, it cannot happen in two years that someone brings in the support. So, we need to get a clear assessment and a clear opinion from the State Competition Protection Agency that the write-off of these tax debts is not State support, because if we don't get it now, and we do it, it might happen to us tomorrow that Brussels is telling us that it's illegal support that we have restructuring problems again. Because why? Because in this law, when you look at deadlines, nothing is clear or defined for reasons that clearly time or cannot be defined because it is not known when certain processes will be completed. And that's why it's very important to us that these tax debts write off the tax debts that we have a clear definition that it's not support. 'Cause look why I'm saying it? For the simple reason that if we do not tie this to the Croatian shipbuilding restructuring programme and that the write-off of these tax debts is closely linked to the restructuring programme, tomorrow any economic operator in the Republic can come forward and say, is going by the same analogy as these, let the state write off our tax debts. And that is why I think that, in Article 6 and Article 7 of this law, I think it would be better if these things that are written in this explanation were made clearer in Article 6 and Article 7 because then Article 8 is not controversial because the view in Article 8 is that "the Government of the Republic of Croatia can prescribe the conditions, deadlines and the way in which this law is implemented". If it says here that this law enters into force on the day of its publication in the National Journal in principle to say that the Government can prescribe, and not say that at exactly the exact moment when the process of restructuring and privatisation of a particular shipbuilding site is completed, it will taxively list how many budget fees, the receipts are written off that we understand each other. Because all these loans along with interest will be paid tomorrow from the budget. So, to slowly bring my debate to an end, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, therefore certainly a praiseworthy law. If nothing else, let this House finally make it clear and loud about how much certain processes cost. I repeat, after the pensioner's debt has been recovered, this is the largest amount that one law regulates to pay out of the state budget. And given that there were many stories that were issued last year far more guarantees than there were laws on budget implementation, when you look at whom guarantees were issued then you will see that 80% of these guarantees were issued to Croatian shipyards, some Croatian highways, the Croatian Institute of Transboundary Medicine, HZ and Croatian Waters. So all Croatian companies and if these guarantees were not issued, if they hadn't done some work, the question is whether the economic results would have been as they were in last year. However, those who do not like the conclusion of the negotiations for entry into the European Union, those who do not like certain macroeconomic indicators, those who cannot possibly swallow that Croatia is the only country that is easy to get out of the economic crisis without anyone's help, these figures simply mean nothing. But tomorrow, if there's a political gathering to be called out, yelling, they're going to be screaming like hell for them to stand up for the shipbuilding. I sincerely hope that there will be a bar in the assembly when this law is voted on and that it will vote for this law because it is definitely the only model and way, no matter how expensive it costs us, guarantees the sustainability of Croatian shipyards and I say perhaps a guideline for the future period, a reform that must be implemented no matter how much it costs. It's always cheaper if it's made in the first step than in the fifth step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73927	Thank you very much, Comrade Shuker. It is next to the club of HNS, HSU and the esteemed colleague of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73928	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is a little harder to speak after one ravishing speech by former Minister Ivan Shuker, I know that he cares, and in the end this will be resolved as proposed because the majority of the vote of this law certainly exists in the Croatian Parliament. But in itself this law is very amazing, nine articles of the law, each cost a billion and 250 million kuna plus interest. A really tough law hardly happened here in the assembly. What affects our opinion in the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retirement on this law is that everything is listed as a solution, and that nothing has been said about what fellow Schuker mentioned here, about these debts and how they were created, by which shipyard, because the protest guarantees and censures were not activated and would not be activated if the shipyards from regular business could repay their obligations. Therefore, they are activated because debt is generated year after year in shipyards. I wouldn't call this the restructuring process, this is a recovery and cover of debts before the final sale or privatisation of the shipyard. The systematic attempt, the last systematic attempt to restructure, was long ago in 1996. It was the only one dealing with it systematically in the recent history of Croatia, Minister Purgest and his assistant kept when there was an attempt to reorganize Croatia's shipbuilding, since all state-owned to introduce something like the Italian model a central administration, to specialize in shipbuilding sites, to unite the acquisition, not to obtain black metallurgy every shipbuilding site for itself, so to introduce a single order in the management of the shipyard. After that, no one systematically engaged in shipbuilding, but one recovery followed the other. And it is true and I am pleased that Minister Schuker has been very open and sincerely saying that in the last 20 years, 50 billion are being rounded up in Croatian shipbuilding. ... No, not guarantees, I didn't say guarantees, but total funds in various forms of restructuring and various resolutions or whatever they were called. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So the key question is why some shipyard or one shipyard was more moderate in the whole process, so it incasated in all phases of less debt, and the other shipyards were slightly different. I'll try your colleagues and colleagues for a little while and answer that question because I'm a witness to it. Because in the end, if I'm 13 years old in shipbuilding in different positions, then I admit that I'm also infected with that shipbuilding because I just know tomorrow people are going to vote on shipbuilding that's hard to distinguish from bow and stern. I know Minister Shuker has some speedboat because I read it, but as far as... Okay, then he was borrowing it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I mean, you know, when you go through the whole construction of the ship, from the first line on the drawing table, that is, sometimes on the computer, from the construction to the laying of the locust, to the cutting of parts or metal panels and profiles, to the dive and to the handover, when you're once a witness of the dive, when you're 15000 tons of ugly, you slip down and go to the sea, when you once you experience it, you'll never get rid of that impression again. So I admit that I am infected with this, this shipbuilding and that I love it and that I want this shipbuilding in Croatia to survive, but not only on the principles that a private entrepreneur will be more efficient than state-owned shipbuilding. I can't possibly drink that claim. I can't drink that claim, and I can't drink it because I know, I have experience from our neighbouring country of Italy that in the 1970s solved this problem by writing off all the debts to shipyards and after seventy years of last century, the state shipbuilding in Italy didn't include one lira and one euro minus. It's about the shipbuilding management system, because, you know, shipbuilding has a process that's predictable, it's a technical process, and it can't be a total number of hours to build one ship. He can't. It can be fulate in 5%, but it can't be fib at 100%. If you look at the business of our shipyards, especially those shipyards where there are enormous debts, then the additional works in the shipbuilding exceed the planning hours of the construction of the ship. This could have ended with the management of state shipyards. Look in the Republic of Italy, which is our concept of the mafia, but in this matter they've cleared up until the end of the shipbuilding director has no right to sign any additional hours of work, not a single amendment until this office allows him the methods and procedures he's positioned in the shipbuilding directorship. So they've set up control systems so no one can manipulate the initial positions. We were supported through recovery and debt was covered. In what way? That the payment of health and pension contributions was forgiven and that, through this way, the rehabilitation of shipbuilding was carried out. Since the 1970s in Italy, no lira or euro has gone to the salaries of workers or contributions, not for current business but exclusively for new technologies. The Montfalcone Shipyard, which is 150 km from Pula, has more welding robots than the entire Croatian shipbuilding, so I think half of Greece, and only two passenger ships work. So, it's not at all that shipyard like a certain gentleman on Sunday at 2:00 this week says in China we'll be stamping ships. So, you don't stamp ships. It's two high-end ships that cost at least $450 million a unit. Two passenger ships work a year. The biggest ship they ever built cost $900 million. I had the privilege of seeing that luxury, that glow and all the things that they from the Italian and European processing industries installed on that ship. So all the best there is is going on that ship. Everything's going to be on that ship, and that's not the cheapest. So the added value is huge. We have not tried such risks, but we must admit that Croatia in the former state of the 1960s was the third in the world in shipbuilding, 3 in the world of the former state, and 95% of the former state was Croatia. There were 5 pardons in the world for machine construction, and 70% of the construction machine was in Croatia. Are we so talented that we have to break it all down. 'Cause I'm sorry, I don't believe in the story. We're going to rent ships in China. It is not the future of Croatian shipbuilding. We do all this and I can raise my hand in other circumstances if tomorrow's shipbuilding, Croatia's shipbuilding independently in state or private ownership, will employ people if we're going to build ships, if we're going to go through the Oils that took one of the very difficult ships to make out of, the French shipbuilders, the ship that took the refrigerators, which has constantly inovated, which makes a small series of very sophisticated ships. Well, we could have made a deal in that shipbuilding once before, so not everyone can compete. Well, let's all develop one type of ship. We don't have to compete with each other, and we can work very hard together. And secondly, we have a shipbuilding institute. So how are we going to put this shipbuilding institute that's state-owned, which we're going to put into operation when we no longer have state-owned shipbuilding tomorrow? So, having state shipbuilding is not an obstacle that it can do positive business. Privatising shipbuilding is no guarantee that we will have the production of ships in Croatia. Therefore, I can agree that this must be done is an alternative to what is proposed today is simply the bankruptcy of everyone except the Oilies. And as much as I love my Oily, I respect other shipyards, I respect it because there were great people in all the shipyards and I never agreed and I will never agree to change the annual management of the shipyard. And I never accepted that political change could be made to shipbuilding management, and certainly there were unions in play because they helped to change certain shipbuilding management. This loses the memory of the shipyard, thus losing the memory of a company, it simply goes backwards. In technology, every new generation must continue where the previous stop is, and not change, the new generation of leadership must change and say this before nothing is right. There's no such thing in tech. It can be in politics, it can be anywhere you want. It's unnatural, but in shipbuilding it can't be, because if we have that anyone new who comes best knows and hasn't even smelled that garage of welding or everything that's going on in the shipbuilding since such an effort to prove to everyone new that it's better, there's nothing. So we would like to vote for this, or I would vote for this, that is, our club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired would vote for this law if they had substantiated data on every shipyard, about their debts still to be recovered. This way we won't be against this law, but we feel that the whole picture of shipbuilding restructuring is underexplained because you simply can't ask us to raise our hand for something that's positive because the alternative is bad, but we don't have enough data and who's all responsible for all this that's been created so far. Because these debts and liability for these debts have its own name, and I certainly don't want to and will be the opponent of this total privatisation of shipbuilding, because it is in fact the oppression of our roots, maritime traditions and shipbuilding traditions of Croatia. No guarantee that the future owner of the shipyard, a private entrepreneur who announces the stamping of ships in China, will build ships and develop maritime orientation and shipbuilding in Croatia, so please be careful with these stories. I would not like to make decisions hastyly and do privatisation for privatisation, save our pride, keep our national interests, and you know, this is really hard for me, because in this figure stands at least 6 years of indexing or harmonising pensions for Croatian pensioners, therefore these are not easy decisions and only because of this sense of responsibility we will be restrained, without doubting good intentions, and the lack of alternatives, because the only alternative to this is bankruptcy, and then they are still in danger that our workers will not be recognised internship because there will be no payment, etc., we are opening some new processes that are quite difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73929	Thank you very much, colleague Hrelja. We have one application for correction of the quote, dear colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73930	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So precisely on the trail of this reason why Mr. Hrelja, a colleague of Hrelja, said that they would not vote but would be abstentioned, I tried to give a clear picture on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, and I also said in the name of the club that the law itself is quite principled, but the reasoning of the law is detailed. And she's been doing all the records since '96. 49.9 billion were issued to date, not all of them were protested. What we have safe data, and I have said it, is that in the period from 2000 to today, the protested guarantees, which is the cost of the recovery taken over by the state, which is what this guarantee that should take over as effective as advance, and interest, is somewhere in the amount of about 25 billion kuna that the state has invested over the last 10 years and will invest in shipbuilding. And another thing I can't agree with is that with privatisation and shipyards we suppress the roots of Croatian shipbuilding. That's just not true. Those who will decide whether there will be shipbuilding there, or tomorrow someone will agree with someone else is local self-government. No one past the local self-government can change things, and it is not good that our colleague Hrelja is long and we worked together on the Law on the return of debt to Croatian pensioners, and that is why I said that this law is equal to the weight. Let's not today when we practically have no alternatives, we can talk whatever we want, we don't have alternatives. Let's do this. And the other thing, if this law didn't go, the question is, what would happen to the Oilman if he had to return the protested guarantees? So let's not say something is wonderful, something is beautiful, something is bad. ... The difference is big, but I'm just saying maybe we're all here today, maybe it would be better, and we're discussing this and that's why I said on behalf of the club at the beginning, so not running away from the law being principled, but that's why the explanation in detail, because until the restructuring program is completed for every shipyard, my colleague Ruđer and colleagues at the Ministry of Finance can't give up a clear figure in June, but that's why it stands in the article, I think that the government will be special acts, we can agree that the government will add another article, and that the Croatian Parliament will report it within 15 days when the decision is made for any shipyard, so that we have a transparent implementation of this law. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I don't think the government, and neither will the Parliament, so the Ruger might see you inserting another dot, I will.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73931	Thank you. We've exhausted the club debate, we're moving on to the individual. My first call came from a colleague named Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. And my colleague Mirela Holly. She's not here either. And she's losing her right to argue. My colleague, Daniel Srb, is here. Here's your esteemed colleague. Take your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73932	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Namely, this is a law that is obviously of exceptional importance for the future of Croatian shipbuilding. The fact is that Croatia's shipbuilding actually lives exclusively for years, i.e. it can only exist with significant support from the state, we were aware that during the negotiations with the European Commission and certain pressures for Croatia to solve this, we are all absolutely aware of the need for the shipbuilding to be preserved in Croatia, that it is an economic branch that will provide long-term jobs to a large number of people, who still live on shipbuilding. We must also not forget the fact that the good part and the accompanying Croatian industries are based on shipbuilding, so there are also mentioned boating institutes from Zagreb, as well as numerous other companies in Croatia that are related to the shipbuilding itself. But what has been said quite extensively today through the debate and colleagues of Shuker and colleagues of Hrelja, the fact is there is no alternative, the shipbuilding must be preserved, but what is the real question is why we put ourselves in a position to practically every four years lead to the conclusion of the alternative not being found, now must provide extremely large funding from the state budget to save the shipbuilding de facto. And in the meantime, nothing is done to restructure the shipbuilding itself and to clearly gradually come into the situation that it can, to make serious restructuring and changes of relations in the business itself. There were a lot of words here about this, state shipbuilding, non-state shipbuilding, it is obvious that the level of governance is not successful enough, that something needs to be changed there, in which way, models, unification, the formation of a state holding company that could have managed perhaps more economically, perhaps by uniting different systems and getting them in the whole process, which is certainly going to jump into some shipyards, they certainly don't care about that. But we can't ignore that the funds that are directed towards shipbuilding, here's what fellow Shucker said, it's about more than 20 billion kuna over 10 years. The real question is why did Croatian shipbuilding, not for 20 years but for 30 years, not take steps in serious modernisation? Why is there still no recognition of those segments in shipbuilding that can continue to be marketable and successful today without State support? So, we've always had those phases for four years, and then we come to the point of simply saying there's no alternative, the shipbuilding is saved by the sea, the means must be provided. And we know that actually one of the fundamental problems is the technological lagging, the need for a modernization that does not exist, and as time goes on, the situation is actually getting worse. And we're also bringing shipyards to the point where they're getting harder and harder and they're keeping up with competitors. We certainly need a different shipbuilding. Now, the whole process should be carried out gradually, carefully so as not to cause damage to the shipbuilding process, which is objectively not to be done. We can also make some comparisons, for example with the money that Croatia has invested in the entire agriculture system in Croatia and then come to the fact that the money that went towards the shipbuilding has been reduced to one job, however, incomparably greater than those that went towards agriculture which also needs a serious restructuring. But we really need to recognize the problems, define the restructuring model so that we don't just come back into the situation every four years to raise huge money either for the shipbuilding or for any other activity. Time here isn't our friend. And the loss every four years, let's go solve it now, and then the next government actually pulls the same thing, pulls the problem, pulls the problem until there's the same situation that simply saves the sea. It has to be saved, but let's not just do this now to ensure that the financial part of the problem will be resolved by taking over the state's commitments to itself, and then not to implement restructuring but to let shipyards come into an even more difficult situation after 4 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73933	Thank you very much. We have one replica reported. Dear colleague Hrelja, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73934	Dear Serbian counterparts, look, you can compare money for the textile industry, money for agriculture and money for shipbuilding, but as we said, the infected shipbuilder will say one thing. The ship is the largest product that can land one size like ours on the world market. We cannot give planes or space technology or nuclear power plants or have Silicon Valley, but we have a ship that is the largest product and the most sophisticated product that Croatia as a small country can place on the world market. And that, apart from the economic account, can be what holds us, and that's pride, and the economic calculation can be if we're willing to organize this shipbuilding to be a procurative activity to install as many components of domestic production as possible on board. I agree with you that the shipbuilding management system was weak and ineffective. And I don't agree with the Prime Minister's measure that all managers in all businesses need to cut their salaries. No, gentlemen, the one doing business in the plus room should have as much pay as the Supervisory Board has assigned him. One who has a minus can't survive in that workplace for more than three months. It's a responsible management system. So no one can make losses and be rewarded with a manager's salary. As far as technological equipment is concerned, I would be careful in assessing how we evaluate the situation in the shipbuilding disaster Croatian shipbuilding does not lag behind for more than 3 to 5 years compared to competition in technological equipment and we have always been known for innovative solutions in shipbuilding. So, it's that I said something about welding robots, but we have our horses to race, we know a lot to do in maybe our own weird way and as far as technological and organisational solutions are concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73935	Thank you. Replication response, colleague of the Serbs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73936	Thank you very much. My colleague Hrelj and I agree on a lot of things, but there's one part where we disagree. We disagree on technological equipment at the moment of the entire Croatian shipbuilding. She's objectively technologically lagging behind. It began to lag behind in the early '80s. It is not from today, but it is one process that Croatia must either catch or lose shipbuilding. The truth is, we have extremely capable, innovative, valuable people who make up for a lot, but in the early 1980s, Croatian shipbuilding in Yugoslavia was already behind technologically when it came to welding technologies and their efficiency, productivity compared to Japan and Korea, then South Korea. In those 30 years, the situation has unfortunately worsened and we need one step to be aware of the owner at this time of state. More additional funds will need to be invested, in fact, to make the shipbuilding through one modernisation fully competitive in certain segments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73937	Thank you. It's my colleague Arsen Bauk's turn. He's gone. And he's losing his right to debate. A colleague of Vedran Rozic is here, dear colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73938	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a law that finally completes the privatisation process of Croatian shipyards. We are aware of the situation in which our shipbuilding is located, and we are witnessing how long it took with the privatisation process. The problem of restructuring and rehabilitation of shipbuilding has greatly burdened the process of completing negotiations with the European Community. Quality resolution of the same is of great importance for the Croatian economy, not to mention the importance of life for the local community in which these shipyards are located. However, with the great commitment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the competent ministries and their professional services and the negotiating teams, we are in the face of a final solution to the problem, as well as the opening of new opportunities for Croatian shipbuilding. It is certainly necessary to highlight the government's efforts to pass this Law on the regulation of rights and the obligations of the shipyard in the restructuring process that will finally make it easier to restructure. We are also aware of the complexity of making privatisation contracts, and what time goes on is becoming more expensive and more complicated and that fact must not be ignored. The process of assessing the restructuring programme for Brodotrogir, Kraljevica Shipyard and 3rd May from Rijeka is still ongoing. I would also refer to the Brodotrogir restructuring programme, which is based on a programme developed by shipbuilding experts in line with renowned consultants and domestic and foreign scientists. The programme is based on sustainable development, taking advantage of the comparative advantages of Trogir and its surroundings, is a quality for us rarely present cooperation of science and economy. I don't think it is necessary to stress specifically what Brodotrogir means for the town of Trogir, as well as for the surrounding municipalities but also for the Split-Dalmatia County. I hope that the European Commission Competition Authority will soon approve the programme in question. This raises a very important question, which the Secretary of State knows, how long it will take the Competition Protection Agency to issue a solution, since this is an important condition for privatising the negotiation of new business, business with banks and for all that is necessary for the normal functioning of the economic operator. Because we already know that both Brodosplit and Brodotrogir are completing some programs, and the necessary arrangements for new ships always takes a few months, you will practically lose your job, the workers on hold, and normally, it will all gather the restructuring program together. And finally, I am giving full support to this law that gives Croatian shipbuilding a real chance of survival on a very demanding world shipbuilding market.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73939	Thank you, fellow Roger. It's a replica of a colleague named Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73940	Dear colleague Rožić, I have followed closely your presentation and I have the impression that you too agree with the fact that after this shipyard they must take their fate into their own hands, regardless of the form of ownership that will prevail in them. I can repeat the technological sub-equipment of the shipyard is not something that cannot be achieved, but what in the future if shipbuilders and the Croatian state allow them to take the matter into their own hands which they must work on is change and technology and habits and in any case they will have to be covered in frames within financial frameworks or expect very little help from the state it will be strictly limited. I think that the model offered specifically for the privatisation of the Oils or the change of the own model that 4 pension funds take each 10%, that two shipowners who should have an interest because they can close constructions for the ordering of ships, that is, Atlantic navigation and the Sailing Oil to enter 10% in ownership, and that 20% of the ownership is further divided, 20% of the states, 20% of the workers and management so that they can be on the trail of taking responsibility for their fate. I don't know how the situation in Brodotrogir is where you're more familiar, but I think that there are models that should get the advantage of mere privatization buds why bringing them down at risk that who knows what's going to be at the sites of today's shipyards.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73941	Thank you. Reply to the replica of his colleague, Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73942	Well, I'm sure my colleague, Hrelja, that Croatia's orientation towards the sea towards shipbuilding is one of the basic preconditions and for the survival of this economy, especially in industry and in shipbuilding. All models normally make it out of all the shipyards that the Oilman made one model 15 years ago, and there's one advantage and their model proved to be successful. However, just as counterpart Shuker said, with this new law and Ulanik, in some ways cleans up all these guarantees and future commitments. I believe that other shipyards will follow these or similar models, but there, normally, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will continue to play a very significant role in the survival of Croatian shipbuilding. And I agree with you that all our shipyards should retain that one model that will guarantee survival on the world market. Because we need to know that the world market in particular in the Far East is not easy to be competitive but there is space on some special ships and I believe that Croatian shipbuilding in the future after this restructuring will have much more success than before.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73943	Thank you very much. It's my friend Ivan Skaričić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73944	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I would say and join my colleague Shucker's view that it is very strange for me, too, that those who advocate workers' rights show concern for shipbuilding through the media today are not in the assembly, but for some reasons of their own political nature have left during the morning. To go back to this law. The intention of this law is to restructure major Croatian shipyards in a way that is based on market business to contribute to economic growth and employment in the Republic of Croatia. The restructuring of large shipyards shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on State aid and the international commitments of the Republic of Croatia on the need to protect competition. At the same time, the Republic of Croatia has taken the obligation to adopt legislation that will allow state support to be controlled in order to avoid an unjustified distortion of trade between the Republic of Croatia and the EU. The deadline for the coordination of the support programme expired on 1 March 2006. In shipbuilding, however, the support programmes did not comply with the obligation due to accumulated problems from the past. In 2007, a decision was taken on the restructuring of Croatian shipyards from Rijeka, the Queen of Queens, Brodosplit from Split, and Brodotrogir from Trogir on 3 May. The "Olinik" Shipyard from Pula, given that it has returned all support and positive business, is no longer considered a shipbuilding site with difficulties. The restructuring programme aims to achieve the conditions for the long-term viability of the shipbuilding site. Since restructuring is carried out through the privatisation of the shipyard, these state resources must also be restructured by the new owner's own resources. According to the European Union acquis, the amount of own funds is estimated to be up to 50% for large entrepreneurs. Liabilities related to government guarantees are transferred to the public debt of the Republic of Croatia, and the final definition of all obligations will be established by the act of ending privatisation. This law lays down three basic practices within a specific framework. (a) these are property-legal relations, under (b) public debt commitments which may arise in the restructuring process and fundamental state guarantees issued by shipyards and under c) tax debt treatment after the privatisation is completed. Property-legal relations deal with the rights and obligations of the property owned by the shipyard, which become a maritime good after conversion, i.e. the ownership of the Republic of Croatia and on which the Republic of Croatia will collect concession fees for the operation of shipbuilding activities. Agreements governing property-law issues between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the shipyard of the total shipbuilding obligation amounting to more than 8 billion kuna are being converted into public debt. Out of that, it's on the Brodosplit 2.9 billion kuna, on the Broadotrogir 634 million kuna, on the Queen 368 million kuna, and on the 3rd of May, 3 billion and 219 million kuna. As regards public debt commitments that may arise through a series of restructuring programmes and fundamental state guarantees issued to shipyards, they are next. Ship Split Shipyard d.o.o. Domicile guarantees are issued on 3.2 billion kuna and advances on 1.1 billion kuna, Brodosplit Shipyard of special facilities d.o.o. In addition, the Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, as well as with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union. Shipyard Kraljevica d.d. In accordance with Article 21(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3. May Rijeka makes guarantees of €2.7 billion and an advance of €272.4 million, as well as a guarantee of €733.4 million from Pula, which accounts for €11.3 billion in national guarantees, which are potential liabilities that can be transferred to public debt. The exact amount will be clearly known after the restructuring process has been completed. Tax debt and other public taxes are being beaten against the tax loss of the shipyard for previous reasons, and the remaining debt is being written off. From all of this, great efforts by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to preserve domestic shipbuilding and at the same time to comply with the legal acquis of the European Union, as we have seen very demanding and very difficult, and this is also a condition for Croatia's accession to the European Union. Therefore, by praising the government's efforts and all those involved in this restructuring, I will support and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73945	Thank you very much. The time has just expired, and we still have one individual application. Dear colleague Vesna Buterin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73946	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. One of the key objectives of the Croatian Government's economic policy is to restructure shipbuilding in such a way as to enable it to successfully operate on the global market, but also compete with shipyards from other countries. We must recognise that the current system of funding for shipbuilding has not been too effective and will be replaced by a system that will require both an increase in production and an increase in business efficiency, and only then will it be possible to use state aid for innovation, environmental protection and new investment. The aim of the restructuring of Croatian shipyards is to make their business more commercially sustainable and to contribute to economic growth and employment in the Republic of Croatia, on the other hand, as much as possible to Croatian taxpayers. The restructuring programme should, above all, be such as to create conditions for the establishment of long-term sustainability during a certain period of time, of course on the basis of realistic assumptions on the future operating conditions of the entrepreneur himself, but also on the conditions of business on the market on which that entrepreneur operates. The amount and intensity of State aid granted in the restructuring process itself must be limited to the minimum necessary level of restructuring costs necessary to implement the restructuring measures. It should also be said that the previously granted state support for the recovery forms an integral part of state restructuring support. The support user is expected to make a significant contribution to the restructuring process from its own resources. In the case of Croatian shipyards where restructuring is carried out through privatisation, users of support must also make a significant contribution to the process through their own resources or the means of the new owner. During the negotiations on membership in the European Union, therefore, when it comes to Chapter 8, an agreement has been reached on the own contribution of restructuring of Croatian shipyards of 40% of the restructuring costs, although the legal property of the European Union provides for its own contribution of 50% in these cases. Accordingly, the share of the state in restructuring Croatian shipyards is 60%. In order to enable the restructuring process of Croatian shipyards to be implemented and give another opportunity to survive and improve business as well as to preserve employment in this sector, the Government of the Republic of Croatia wants to make direct measures to facilitate and finance this restructuring process. In this law, the credit obligations secured by state guarantees are transferred to the public debt of the Republic of Croatia, and included in its provisions three basic procedures set out in the context of property-legislative relations, public debt acquisitions which may arise following the restructuring programme and the basis of state guarantees issued to shipyards and the treatment of tax debt following the completion of the privatisation process. The introduction of an agreement on the resolution of property-legislative relations which can actually be considered to be their own contribution by entrepreneurs to the restructuring of the shipbuilding site directly reduces the amount that a new potential owner must provide as his own contribution. It also increased the attractiveness of the shipyard, created the basic preconditions for the preservation of the shipyard as important industrial branches but also met the preconditions for effective implementation of privatisation. When we talk about each other's rights and obligations to be transferred to public debt, they will, in total, amount to 8.1 billion kuna, and shipbuilding rights on behalf of the amounts that are individual, so for each shipbuilding site in the Republic of Croatia listed in the law are beaten with the resulting claims created on the basis of issued and protested state guarantees. According to the Ministry of Finance, the current state of active state guarantees is €11.3 billion, with legal guarantees of €9.3 billion and advance guarantees of €2 billion. And of course that amount will be transferred to public debt. And here I am at the end of my debate, because I'm coming from Rijeka, and I need to look back with a few words about Shipyard 3. May, which I would say is an extremely important economic operator for both Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County, but also broader since it employs a large number of workers. On the basis of this law, the amount of compensation for maritime goods which will be beaten with the claims made in case 3. In May, it amounts to €3.2 billion, and when it comes to taking on public debt, it is a legal guarantee of €2.7 billion, as well as an advance guarantee of €272.4 million. However, one important fact I would like to point out for 3. In May, despite the recession and crisis of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, last October provided and approved guarantees for the construction of two ships in 3. In May of $24 million and it was indeed a big move that allowed for further production, but also jobs in third, all workers in 3. Maya. You see, that's exactly what many in Rijeka have been trying and politicizing around these guarantees and providing themselves with cheap political points. But, of course, it was just a show for the public with no real intention, with no real potential. But what is most important without the actual legal basis on which the city of Rijeka could issue or grant guarantees for 3. May. It's important to emphasize for 3. I think he's in a good situation today. I want to say that production and continuation of production are secured, workers are busy, all jobs are preserved, and I would like to say that for that situation in 3. Maya, that means rescue three. May only deserves the Government of the Republic of Croatia without whose efforts and assistance workers would be on the road today and the shipyard would be bankrupt and there would be no production. I would like to say that the government has indeed made a great deal of efforts to preserve shipbuilding in the Republic of Croatia, which was led by heavy negotiations in Brussels. But of course it was all done with one single goal to preserve both the shipbuilding industry and the jobs in shipyards in the Republic of Croatia. In the end, I will fully support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73947	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the applications for an individual hearing. The proposer, or the proposing representative, does not feel the need for a final address, so I am concluding this agenda item. We'll vote when the conditions are met, and we all expect them to arrive tomorrow at 12:00, so please be here. Normally, if it's a little better bioprognosis than it is today, at least we believe it will be. And I'm sure you're interested in what we're planning to start with. As usual at 9.30 would begin with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions with the final draft of the law. So that dot we added to the agenda today. Thank you very much, very much, very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-19-0.u73948	Final proposal of the Law governing the rights and obligations of the shipyard in the restructuring process. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the representative of the amendment committee shall not vote on them because they become an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Law of Law and Obligation of the Shipyard in the restructuring process. Please engage, please vote. Score. With 97 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, the Law on the Law of Laws and Obligations of the Shipyard in the restructuring process, together with the amendments adopted, was adopted.
