ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73351	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. As you can see from the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 6 October 2010, it is up to the resolution authorities to draw up proposals for amendments and additions of the Law from administrative areas within the established section to comply with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. The proposal for a law amending the Family Law complies with the provision of Article 141(3) of the applicable Family Law with the ZUP, which is prescribed a period of appeal for the adoption of a decision of 8 days from the date of adoption of the decision. Article 109 of the Treaty on the The ZUP deadline for the appeal shall be set at 15 days if the special law does not provide for a longer period of time. In view of the fact that the provision in question is aligned with the ZUP in such a way that the 15-day period of appeal is considered appropriate for the Family Law party, it is not necessary to prescribe this specifically. At the same time, that provision lays down a second-degree body to which the appeal is made. Since the ZUP requires such regulation, the current provisions of the Family Law are not prescribed. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of financial resources from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73352	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. They want to? Who does? You. Which one? Excuse me. On behalf of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, Mrs. Sunchana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73353	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports at the 38th session held on 6 May discussed the Proposal for a Law amending the Family Law with the final proposal of the law, the emergency procedure, the first and second reading that was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Assembly discussed the proposal in question as a parent working body. In its opening statement, the applicant’s representative pointed out that this amendment to the provisions prescribed by the appeal deadline is in line with the Administrative Procedure Act, or prescribed by the competent authority in the second instance procedure. Without discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law amending the Family Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73354	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Ms. Representative Nedjak Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73355	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This amendment to the Family Law will contribute to the harmonisation of family legislation with the needs of the Law on the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which is in line with the acquis of the European Union and which is in force since 1 January, i.e. 2010 The amendment concerns the arrangement of the time limit for appeal in the adoption procedure to be brought in line with the deadline in the General Administrative Procedure Act. It is also necessary to lay down the second-degree body to which the appeal is made. Therefore, it is proposed to amend the 8-day deadline in the Family Law for 15 days as prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act. A period of 15 days is considered appropriate for the party, so it is not necessary to prescribe a time limit for appeal by family law. The same provision determines the second-degree body to which the appeal is made, which is, in this case, the Ministry of Health and Social Care. And by amending the Family Law, the state fulfils its constitutional duty, so it protects motherhood, children and youth. It also creates social, educational, cultural, material and other conditions that promote the rights of a child, promotes the right to a decent life, and particularly takes care of children without parents and children without adequate parental care. On top of all the action in the right way at the right moment in the earliest lifetime is of invaluable value. Investment in children is certainly a provision for a better future. So let us never forget that happy children, happy people, happy parents, are happy children today. Already someone has said all the treasures of this world are not worth the tears of a child. The following club supports the adoption of changes to family law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73356	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73357	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At the very beginning, I will say that the HNS-HSU club will support the proposal to supplement, or amend the family law. This is one in a series of laws that conforms to the General Administrative Procedure Act. As mentioned in these amendments, the appeal is regulated, i.e. the term, the time limit for appeal and, under the proposal of this law, the ministry responsible for social affairs becomes a secondary body to which the party may appeal for a first-degree solution. So, there are few articles, changes that are present almost in all previous laws, and as I said, the HNS-HSU club will support these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73358	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73359	My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President as well as my predecessors, of course, and I will, on behalf of the SDP Club, confirm the vote of these amendments because they are in technical terms, in fact, in compliance with the Law on Administrative Procedure and it is not in itself controversial. However, this is a convenient opportunity to ask ourselves why it is not actually used if nothing, and that announcement by the current prime minister that the first next amendment of the Family Law will be dealt with more seriously by this very delicate and sensitive problem when it comes to child adoption. I'll remind you of the notorious facts because it's not bad to have them in mind. First, that at this point for more than three years is waiting for the child to adopt. At this point, there are 1063 children in children's homes. 1808 children are in foster families, 244 children have conditions for adoption. All 132 children were adopted in 2008, no new data for 2010. 81 adopted children are under 5 years old. 3886 potential adoptors with a positive opinion of the Social Care Centre, 1629 potential adoptors wait longer than 3 years, and only 297 positive opinions are issued, therefore not the most recent data, but the trend has not changed a percent, nor the number of potential adopters and children. I remind you, Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, in an exclusive statement to NOVA TV, has promised to reform this system and says, "I quote, that in the centres of people, they are even more committed to this job, that they watch less paper and more people live. Children on one side and parents on the other. It is also important to see that courts work better in the context of taking away parenting from those who do not care for children. Every parent's home is incomparably better than home no matter how much the sea of love there is," Kosor added. I absolutely agree with what Mrs. Kosor said, but I cannot reconcile or agree with the lack of action behind it, behind such a declared, well-proclaimed needs or announcements or detecting problems. The opportunity to go into full reform and the adoption system was just a change of law. It is not good that our motive is just to align with another law, and that our motive for changing the law is not to actually improve the practice in any area of any word, let alone when it comes to such a sensitive area as the area of fate, in fact, in the whole of the fate of people. It's about a kind of delicate problem. I will not say that these are simple solutions nor can they be prescribed without thinking about the consequences. Of course, it is necessary to examine well and thoroughly the likeness of people to adopt children, but in no way does this mean that they must all be under suspicion and that in this way they should be prevented first and foremost in achieving the interests of children’s right to be cared for, to live in a family environment on the one hand and on the other hand and the right to parenting. One phone call is not a sign once a month, it is not a sign that someone cares and cares for their child. These are in any case situations where it should be allowed to assess, within the profession, who is actually setting up parenting, and who currently finds himself in a situation where he cannot care and care for his child and who does not need to take away parenting. We should rely on more serious, more carefully, more professional analysis in order not to hurt anyone in that triad, parents, biological parents, children, and people who are willing to foster or adopt a child and give him a normal education. So we support these kind of changes, but we also show the discontent that here for years a solution to a very serious problem is being delayed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73360	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73361	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and deputies, Mr. Secretary of State. The HSS MPs' club will support the proposal of the Family Law Amendment Act. Of course, it is not necessary to stress that the family is the first school of human relations, and that is why it depends on the life of each individual and the future of the entire society. In the family we learn about others, but also about ourselves, about relationships, learning about order, working habits, and adopting the values of our parents. The family keeps a memory of those who were before us, it cultivates a sense of tradition, builds a national identity. She prepares us for taking responsibility, teaching us to care for the elderly, the sick and the youngest,... those most vulnerable among us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The family is a basic social unit that also plays a key role in the biological reproduction of society, as well as socialization of individuals, as it has often served as a model in the design of various other social communities, and as a model for explaining relations in various communities. We identify ourselves through our family ties, and although the family structure is changing, family relations still take an important place in Croatian society as well as in citizens' lives. So the adopted children enter the family. As I have already said, the family is the first school of human relations, and it is therefore extremely important that a child who has in some way lost his biological parents or who is unable to live with them, grow up in a family, and in this sense it is necessary to do everything in order not to have children spend more time in institutions than it was objectively necessary, despite the fact that there are people who yearn to give them a home filled with love and security. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 63, requires the State to protect motherhood, children and youth, as well as to create social, cultural, educational, material and other conditions that promote the right to a decent life, and the provisions of Article 64(5) stipulate that the State pays particular attention to minors without parents, and to those who are not cared for by parents. The Convention on the Rights of the Child shall regulate the issue of adoptions to be carried out and approved by the competent authorities, which shall, in accordance with the applicable material and procedural provisions, as well as the basis of all relevant and reliable information and, with the prior consent of certain persons, decide on the eligibility of adoption in view of the position of the child to parents, relatives and legal agents. This proposal also harmonises the provision of Article 141(3) of the family law with the ZUP, which provides for a time limit for appeal for a decision to adopt from 8 days from the date of receipt of the decision, which is a shorter time limit for appeal than provided for in Article 109. The ZUP according to which a period of 15 days is set, if no special law provides for a longer period of time. Since this provision is in line with the ZUP, in such a way that the 15-day period of appeal is considered an appropriate time limit for the party, the family law as a special regulation does not need to prescribe a time limit for the appeal, and that provision also provides for a second-degree body to declare the complaint. Although this amendment is related to compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, which is a commitment made under Chapter 23 of the Justice and Fundamental Rights, this is also an opportunity to warn about the need for greater fostering of children who for some reason have been removed from their biological families. We also discussed the Social Care Act, where we stressed that the state favours fostering, in relation to home accommodation, but we must be honest and say that there are still a number of obstacles that the institutions of the state should remove, such as insufficient professional support and low compensation for fosterers. Although the family is a fundamental human community, which should guarantee love, security, protection, especially for its youngest members, of course it is not always in practice. So besides children who have lost their parents, childhoods in foster homes, or other foster families, children who have lost their parental care because of neglect, abuse, or any other reason. The national plan of activities for the rights and interests of children for the period 2006 to 2012 stresses the tendency to increase the number of children in non-institutional forms of care, compared to the number of children in homes. Today in Croatia there are 2 thousand 635 foster families, of which a thousand 332 foster children and youth and other adults. Of the 5 thousand 105 users in the foster families of children and young people, a thousand 955 and 38.3%, respectively. Of the total number of children in foster families 85.7% are children without adequate parental care, 1 and a half are children with behavioral disorders, and 12.8% of children with physical and mental impairment. In general, the number of foster families is still insufficient in most counties, and the low share of foster children with developmental difficulties is also worrying. As a result, certain activities should be undertaken to encourage fosterers, who would take care of the group, and to strengthen family competences by education, which should also be reflected at the level of the compensation for the availability of continuous professional assistance in the family, supervision, and the availability of rehabilitation programmes necessary for children with developmental difficulties. Childhood is a wonderful time for every natural age, if we try to make it so for the children. This lays the basis for a whole life, and in this most important role the family plays. The family is the core of society, irreplaceable in healthy child rearing, its influence is greater as the child is less. It is family that allows a child to feel accepted, loved, appreciated, and confident, to learn about his abilities and gifts and to learn how to live up to the fullness of his potential. Children learn how to be strong in the full sense of their existence. How a child will grow up to be a warm person, who can love and live in a family, if he doesn't just experience it, because children learn what they experience, and only then what we tell them. And what adults experience with us today in our family today is that each of us needs to give an answer, we need to know that it is necessary to be good examples, for it will certainly be a good indication of what kind of people should be tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73362	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73363	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, it is difficult to say something about the meaning of value, validity, family, and the nobility of foster care, the adoption of a child and very often from this pay phone, and in this House we discussed difficulties precisely in this segment. The proposal for this amendment of the Law, which goes according to the urgent procedure, does not really solve all this together, does not touch it, is in line with the Law on Administrative Procedure, so it is changed in this sense that the appeal period is changed after the adoption decision and is complemented by what is the second instance which the appeal is referred to and that is the Ministry. Since this is a technical change, there is no reason why the HDSSB Club should not accept this Bill amending the Family Law clearly one of the fundamental laws of our society, our country and our people, but I must say that those problems that my colleague Vidovic of the SDP spoke of remain. And these are the difficulties encountered in the adoption of iron and other actions that are being carried out in order to do so. Furthermore, there is a clear problem in the time that passes in order to make such a solution and achieve adoption, fostering children who have lost their parents, or for some other reason, are at home. Now that this is a technical law and not to enter that substance that we very often talk about on some other occasions, the HDSSB Club will accept such a legal solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73364	Thank you. An individual debate, Madam Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73365	Thank you, Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As we've heard in these amendments to the Family Law, it's about aligning with the ZUP as well as with a series of other laws we've been doing the same lately. In this particular case, only two provisions, both related to adoption, are subject to harmonisation. Therefore, the deadline for appeal against the adoption decision with the existing 8 days as provided for by the current Family Law to 15 days under the General Administrative Procedure Act is extended, and the competent ministry is also designated as the second-degree body to decide on the appeal. So, although this is just about one small technical intervention, I think this is an opportunity to say something about adoption, to point out some adoption problems, problems that this form of family legal care and child protection without adequate parental care in Croatia make it almost impossible for us to have a situation today that gives us a really huge number of adoption requests, and on the other hand very few adopted children. According to the data available at this time in Croatia, 22 homes for children are operating without adequate parental care, 14 are state and 8 are not state-owned, so it is about other founders' homes. In these homes there were at the end of 2009, so we still have no data for 2010, 1208 children, 782 in state homes and 426 in other founders' homes. What worries is that of the total number, of the 1208 children in 2009 adopted only 137. In the last 5 years, a new home in foster families has been found by only 808 children of whom 23 children have been adopted by foreign citizens. Therefore, only about 150 children are adopted annually in Croatia on average, and this figure would be even less if it had not been amended in early 2008 by the provisions of the Family Law, which abolished that age-limit for potential adoptors of 35 years. It's a good thing it was done because we had a really paradoxical situation that a large number of adoptors precisely because of that age limit were disabled in adoption while at the same time the homes for unsupervised children as we see from the figures are full. Of course, although there is no longer a age limit for adoptors, adoption continues to make sure that older adoptors have older children and younger ones. What is a limiting factor in the number of adoptions lies in the fact that the highest occupation of adoptors is expressed for children under the age of 3 or for those of preschool children. The adoption of school children is extremely rare, according to some data that I have been able to obtain in the last 15 years, only three children older than 7 years have been adopted. If we know that only every 10 children out of the total number of children in homes under the age of 7 are, it is clear how unlikely these children are to be adopted or to find a parent home at all. And that's actually a big problem, and in that sense, it's a good project of living communities that give these children the opportunity to stay in the system even after they're old and use support until they find their own way through life. As counterpart Vidovic said in front of the SDP Club in Croatia, it is on average waiting to be adopted for 3 years, and it is estimated that there are around 800 families waiting for adoption at this time. When I mention this number of potential adoptors, I must also say that I am afraid that it could be even bigger, in order to increase in due time, as a direct consequence of the fact that there is Minister Milinović, who gave us the most rigorous law on medically assisted fertilisation in Europe, which is why couples who want a child could decide more precisely on adoption rather than on painful and painful tests and repetitive fertilisation procedures. All in all, it is obvious that the adoption of a child in Croatia is an extremely difficult and frustrating process that successfully ends the most patient and persevering potential parents. Certainly the biggest problem of adoption in Croatia and what I would like to put a special accent on in my debate is the absence of a single register of adopters at national level that would allow adopters to apply only in one place at a social care centre and that would allow for the establishment of order or we can freely say our own waiting lists, it would allow the order of adoption to be respected. Namely, the adoption process and the selection of adoptors for a child is initiated by a centre for social care, residence or residence of a child, after the biological parents have been deprived of parental rights. After processing and opinion of the parent centre, adoptors send their applications to all centres in Croatia, because because of the non-connection of the centres of application in one centre does not mean applying in all other centres. The adoptors cannot know where the child will be adopted, and therefore some apply to 5 centres, some to 20, and the best do are those who can send them to all 80 centres that currently have them in Croatia because they are, of course, increasing their chances of getting a child. So adoptors have to knock on the 80th door to increase the possibility of a dream of becoming parents. Of course, it is also a very important factor in happiness, and the most perseverance factor or good relationships in that famous Croatian way. In any case, for 10 years now, it has been said that the competent ministries so that the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare and the Ministry of the Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity should establish this unique register of potential adoptors, but we still do not have it, and it would greatly facilitate the adoption of children and would also facilitate the procedure for the competent institutions. So, to conclude this debate, this today's harmonisation is technically, and a far more significant step would be to just form a national adoption register that would significantly speed up the adoption procedure all with the goal of making the child as short as possible in the institution, or to find a family that will take care of him and provide him with the childhood that every child deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73366	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73367	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. At this session, when a representative of the government begins to explain the law, each of us has started with a sentence of this bill, harmonizes, harmonizes, and by the number of agenda points, this will probably be a record session, I would even call it harmonizing because all the proposals we received from the Government are practically relevant to harmonisation, something does not matter whether it applies to any other laws that we have passed, to decisions of the Constitutional Court or to EU directives. And I must admit that I am fascinated by the speed of proposing a bill when it comes to harmonising with some regulations, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73368	Mr. Lesar, excuse me a moment. We have at the gallery a delegation of the Committee on European Affairs of the Parliament of the Czech Republic with the Ambassador of the Czech Republic to the Republic and his deputy, so let's welcome this delegation. ... Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] Mr. Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73369	Thank you. So, as fascinated as I am by the speed that the Government is proposing proposals for laws on which we have to comply with some bureaucratic regulations, regardless of whether it is our Croatian or European so much regret as long as it takes this ministry or the government to propose the laws it has promised to the Croatian Parliament, which would facilitate the lives of the citizens or resolve the injustices that have occurred, the speed of harmonisation of regulations and laws, and not listening to warnings given to this Assembly or in public. I will remind the Secretary of State of three such things that are two directly in your vault. One should be, but you don't have to listen to it because you think that since it's a mandatory relationship law, you don't have to take part in it. So, so far, on several occasions in the Croatian Parliament, you have been warned that the Institutes of Lifetime Restraint and the Law on Mandatory Relations allow the robbery of older citizens, frauds and frauds that take away property and eventually these people fall on the burden of the state and social welfare system just because you insist on refusing to intervene in this law and abolish an institute that allows legal theft of property not only from private persons outside of private persons, but last time we have proved to you here that such theft of property has been carried out by one individual of the local self-government. Then, in his conclusion, the Parliament obliged the government to propose interventions in the law within 6 months and to address the problem, the Parliament's conclusion. It's been three years since that conclusion, and since you're supposed to be taking care of the elderly and the powerless, you haven't moved your finger and suggested that we align that flaw in the regulations. There is no need to coordinate because it was about the interest of the citizens. Second. The adoption, which is the subject of this law. On several occasions in the Assembly, we have talked about having a strange situation, that we have a large number of children to adopt and support the government's intention to adopt instead of putting children in institutions and homes, go into family care regardless of whether it's fostering or adoption, that we have a large number of couples who would like to adopt children and that there is a problem somewhere in the way of realisation of desire. Last time we discussed this, you promised and said that a group of experts working on a serious change of family law had been formed and that the parliament would come before the Parliament with a proposal to improve and resolve this, to help children be adopted, to help couples adopt, and that bureaucratic problems through changes to the law were resolved or at least temperate. According to data that are present, nothing more important happened in the meantime, nor did you suggest any solution that would help citizens. When something should be harmonised for citizens, help them, the speed of the bill's proposal takes a snail's step. You simply don't have the time and the nerves to suggest it, just what it is to comply with Europe and other regulations. A third example, several months ago, the Parliament discussed my proposal to amend the Family Law, and the government's statement again said that the ministry had formed an expert group that is working on a serious analysis of the Family Law and promised to propose soon to the Parliament to amend the Family Law in that part of which the state still forces the mother's or ex-husband to register as a child, regardless of who the father is. It said, Mr. Secretary of State, in the government's statement that there is an expert group working on it and promised to propose changes in that part as well. Of course, my bill of law was rejected and was waiting for you to come with that proposal to solve that part of the problem. It's been more than a year and a half since the government has written an opinion on my bill and if the section has produced these amendments to the Family Law in those three years, which are reduced to one or two sentences, then I can't understand it. Any proposal that carries small and small shifts behind it, which would make life easier for at least part of the citizens who point out that there are problems simply cannot be found on the agenda of the government's proposer, and when the opposition proposes these laws, they will, as a rule, be first on the list of waitings for a debate for at least a year and, of course, will be rejected. I can't understand why you don't use the possibility when we're already changing the law because of harmonising with anyone or anything, to take this opportunity to install and what you've been warned about for years, which is not a political issue or politics, but simply an attempt to change, intervene in the legal regulations of this country when citizens and the system institutions warn us that something is wrong. Under the next point on child support, you yourself wrote in the explanation that your problem, in the law, was created by other regulations, the European Union directive, and I will quote that to you later. And yet this law only changes because of alignment. I would kindly ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, when you have suggestions that help citizens, which are the consequence of detecting failures in the system, or we have made a mistake when we have passed previous laws, do not reject them so easily, keep your promises. If an expert group is formed, if you have been given the Parliament's obligation to make a suggestion, stick to it. It's not because of us here in the Parliament, and I'm not making any suggestions here because of me. Behind each proposal are families, a number of families or citizens, so let's start harmonising our rules and then when it's in the interest of citizens, so it's just that it's groups of small numbers of citizens, families and children. 100 citizens for me and their interest and problem is the same as the 4.5 million problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73370	Thank you. One correction. Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73371	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is an incorrect quote from fellow Lesar when he finds that the state is abolishing the Institute of Private Property and does not protect it, and then it all falls under the burden of social care. This is an incorrect allegation, I just know a lot of cases when it comes to life and life restraints and when the parties were protected. And colleague Lesar, I will remind you that just a few days ago, a new Social Care Act was passed which actually introduces a single newspaper and says that every employee who is directly involved in the social care activity until as long as he is employed in social care activities cannot enter into contracts for life or life support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73372	Madam representative of the Sun's Head, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73373	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So regardless of what is involved in the amendments relating to the harmonisation of family legislation with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act which is in line with the acquis of the European Union and which has been in force since last year, I will say a few words about it, but here I will also extend the subject as did my predecessors. I will only remind myself that these amendments are subject to the deadline for the appeal concerning the adoption procedure to be brought into line with the deadline of the General Administrative Procedure Act, and that provision also provides for a second-degree body to which the appeal is made. The proposed amendment actually applies from the previous 8-day deadline, as was the family law, to 15 days according to the ZUP. For 15 days, I consider it appropriate for the party, and the second-degree body to which the appeal is made is also designated, which is in this case the Ministry of Health and Social Care. When we talk about adoption, I would just like to point out that we should look at it in another context, perhaps in a broader context, so that courts work better in the context of taking away parenting for those who do not care for children. It was mentioned here that the Prime Minister also spoke about it, which is true, and she was right in this direction and she said that she would do anything to speed it up. And, of course, I would like to say that every parent home is better than an institution, without, of course, questioning the expertise, love and attention that people who work in institutions or homes provide to those children. Family law protects the family as one of the fundamental values of society by caring equally for children, motherhood, and youth. I am sure that these changes will also result in the promotion of achievements in the protection, well-being, rights and interests of children. In addition, it is the right of every child to be allowed by the community, without obstacles, barriers or prejudice, to provide assumptions and a positive incentive environment for a child to grow up in a healthy environment and have the opportunity to form himself as a complete person. So in the end, I want to say that it is important to let a child grow up at the speed that suits him and express himself in the language of understanding and love, and that adults do what they have to do is exactly what they have to do: create all the assumptions that this would be the case. I'll support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73374	Thank you. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73375	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will support the Proposal for a Law amending the Family Law with a final draft of the law that the Croatian Government has submitted in an urgent procedure to the Assembly for discussion and adoption. As we have already heard the family is the fundamental and most important community in the lives of man and people, so the family must be at the heart of the attention of our interests and social concerns and I think that the Croatian Democratic Community led by its Prime Minister has shown the works. The constitution of our country also found that the family enjoys special protection of the state. Of course, children and mothers and young ones enjoy special care. As the Family Law speaks of the most sensitive issues, problems and things most sensitive because the Family Law regulates marriage, parents and children, adoption, custody, the effects of the extramarital community of women and men, these procedures of the competent authorities in relation to family relations and custody. The family law that we are changing today was passed in 2003. Since then, he has experienced 2 changes in 2004 and 1 in 2007. Today, the proposed amendments and additions are in line with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2010, and in one article, in Article 141(3), which has so far been established that an appeal may be brought against the decision to adopt a party within 8 days of the adoption of the decision. As the deadline for appeal under the General Administrative Procedure Act is 15 days, the applicant does not set that deadline in this amendment but determines the second-degree body to which the appeal is made, the proposal therefore found that the complaint against the adoption decision is being resolved by the ministry responsible for social care matters. Therefore, a very short, very short amendment of two articles harmonising the Family Law with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act is to support it. To those who are calling for, or calling for, the Croatian Government, I would remind myself only that last week we adopted the Social Care Act, that the government has launched a major reform of the social care system in the Republic of Croatia, that this law sets out and establishes the insistence and principle of deinstitutionalisation, and that under this proposed, not proposed, but adopted law, there will be a discharge of social workers in social care centres for those who are in charge of implementing and acting in accordance with the provisions of the law, the Family Law and concerning adoption. And I hope that the wider actions in our society that will be carried out and social care centres will be declared more and will allow more adoptions and foster care for both children who are presently located in foster families and those who are located in welfare institutions, or in children's homes without adequate social care. And I am sure that this will all yield results, and that the government will also work on those provisions of the law that will allow for easier adoption and accommodate more children without adequate parental care in the family. Here's what I'm going to support from all these changes and additions to the Family Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73376	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73377	... You've said well to your colleagues that the family is and that it must be at the centre of our attention. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Please tell me how you mean to protect the worker, the father of the family, the mother of the family when you refuse to sanction unfair employers after they do fair work every month and don't get paid. How do you think that father or mother will be able to feed their children? You keep refusing to sanction such employers. And more importantly, we had that sanctioning in 2003. When you came to power, you abolished it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73378	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73379	Comrade Marinović, thank you very much for this replica because you gave me the opportunity to ask you why you didn't do this while you were the Minister of the Government of the former. That's one thing. And the other thing is that you're worried about children, both family and family today, you who have reduced the child's allowance, you who have shortened parental leave and everything you've done from 2001 to 2003 today are asking this country, this government and the state that is in recession, the economic crisis, and the only compensation, child's allowance, the parental benefits are growing, and so the government provides even more resources in the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73380	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Very interesting!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73381	Yes, the provision of Article 209 of our Rules of Procedure has been violated, because a colleague incorrectly held to ask, just a moment, why didn't you do it? fellow Members, see Article 183. The KZ where we introduce the crime of default. And besides, you're incorrectly claiming, and you're injuring the Rules of Procedure that we've reduced rights. We allowed every mother to go on maternity leave even to a student.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73382	This is a classic example of the abuse of Rules of Procedure. Comrade Antičević for this to you someone who is the most good cannot avoid giving you a reminder that I hope will once act on you. You deliberately and consciously go provoking, going to provoke the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73383	The time will come when the truth will not be punished!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73384	Mrs. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73385	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I use this opportunity to say more about adoption, about the problems we face in practice because the current Family Law does not regulate certain things in the best way possible. If we are to achieve more effective protection of adoption of children, the Family Law should more clearly define obstacles to adoption. In this respect, the adoption of a person against whom criminal proceedings are under way or who is legally convicted of a crime against life and the body, against freedom and the rights of man and citizen, against sexual freedom and sexual disorder, and against marriage, family and youth, as well as the one found guilty of domestic violence, or the one who has been given a measure of family protection. The fact that a person is given some of the measures of family protection, regardless of the extent of the matter, whether it is a parent’s care control, the right to live with the child, the lack of parental care and the like, and the reasons for expressing any measure may also be to ignore the child’s needs, when it comes to nutrition, hygiene, clothing, medical care, indicates the inability of such a person to achieve parental care quality and according to the needs of the child. It is questionable that such a person who could not care for his own child, or did not do so properly, could be a quality adoptor. The initiation of domestic violence should be an obstacle to adoption, since a potential adoptor must provide guarantees that he has the qualities and qualities that will make him a good parent, which is certainly not the registered perpetrator of domestic violence. If a person is legally convicted, that is to say that a person is subject to criminal proceedings for a particular type of criminal offence, not prejudicing its outcome, leaves doubt as to the similarity of that person to the adoptor, and should be an adaptive interference. The issue of rehabilitation in criminal law also remains unresolved. Since it is realistic that it is possible for a person who is legally convicted, for example for fornication, rape or abuse of a child or for its subsidisation, after the initiation of rehabilitation in the process of adoption of such a fact, as the Penal Code gives as a possibility, since a rehabilitated citizen has the right to deny previous condemnation, and therefore cannot be called to account, nor can he suffer any legal consequences. Since any use of data on a citizen as a perpetrator of a crime has been banned following the rehabilitation, the theoretically possible absurd situation is that the person who committed the crime at the expense of the child becomes an adoptor. She would also point to problems over court proceedings that take too long. It is necessary to set a 60-day deadline for the end of the parental custody procedure, as set out in other procedures to protect the child's interests. How parental deprivation is often closely associated with taking other measures aimed at the permanent care of the child, e.g. adoption of a child, it is necessary in these proceedings to have the court acted in haste. Unfortunately, in practice, these procedures take an unwarranted length of time, and therefore some children in institutions spend their entire childhood. By setting the deadline, the court would be forced to act more quickly, and to make other measures to protect the child spotlessly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73386	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Stjepan Adanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73387	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Here I'd like to start... , what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done over the past few years, so I would certainly remind you that by adopting the national population policy of the Law on maternity and parental support, the Family Law, the Law on Social Care, and other legal and sublegal solutions, it has done more in this area than anyone else has ever done in this area that we are talking about today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is as you know and a great credit to our present Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. We also have to say what is the fact that the decline of newborn children was stopped, 39,000 children were born in 2003, and here in 2010 according to the latest statistics 44 thousand 401 children. For maternity and parental support, as we know this country, this Government of the Republic of Croatia allocates more than 4 billion kuna annually, precisely for maternity and parental support, which is the most intended for families, parents, means children. Croatia's foundation for children has also been established, which currently scholarships over a thousand 500 students and students of mostly poor people, students, students, students, students, who could never be educated if there were no such foundation. We are also now in the process of launching a new competition, probably for 2,000 new students, students, students and students. However, I won't list it any further, because I think we don't have time, but I'll just say, or I'll answer a few of your questions, and that's some of the questions that Davorko Vidovic, Mr Grubisic, asked, and possibly Lesar, who is here, and Grubisic is here. I answer you that this government and the Ministry of the Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity are in the great dynamics of making exactly the best solutions we propose to this House, a full process of analysis of the application and action of the Family Law, both courts and social care centres, has been launched, and an expert task force has been set up to analyse and propose a reform, which is part of a broader social, social care strategy in view of the complexity of this issue, and this includes the best, i.e. top experts in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73388	Thank you. Two corrections. One Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73389	Dear Mr. Vice-President, the secretary of state, it is difficult to correct this, in this short time, so much praise about the work of this government, but the fact is that the average Croatian family, regardless of the series of changes and additions to the Family Law, lives worse and worse. That's what you can see if you only get out of this building here on the street, so you'll see how the average father, mother, and rich children live. As for this Croatian government, we're free of family laws, if Djakovo doesn't have a birthplace, and there aren't any Djakovchan born after birth. So I call on the minister and this government to understand that the birthplace in Djakov needs to be opened.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73390	Now this isn't a correction, and otherwise, read the paper and you'll see what happened yesterday. ... So they saw the birthplace of Djakovo go. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, it's not. You'll still have a chance to use that birthplace in Djakova. ... Yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. And Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, the same correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73391	Correction of Mr. Secretary of State Adanic's incorrect allegations, as the government headed by Ivo Sanader, Jadranka Kosor, has taken major steps in population, demographic policy. And Mr. Adanic, I must introduce you to the very generation of 2003 that you spoke about at the primary school in Garcin attended by children Garcin and Selena enrolled 7 children in the first grade of primary school. And these two villages have 1,500 inhabitants in total. So that's just one example. In all of Slavonia, therefore, there is a significant drop in child enrollment in the first grade, and this clearly proves that the demographic policy of HDZ was also very, very successful, under quotes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73392	I'm closing the debate. The final proposal of the Law amending the Family Law is an emergency procedure. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Family Law. Please engage, we can vote. The result? I find that with 91 votes for, 3 abstentions, the Family Law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73396	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. This Draft draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Supplements for children with a final draft law, in accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 6 October 2010, which requires the central authorities of the State Administration to draw up proposals for amendments and additions of laws from administrative areas in the framework of established part-round work and to comply with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, align the provisions of the Law on Supplement for Children with the Law on General Administrative Procedure. The draft law also complies with the legal acquis of the European Union, i.e. the Council Directive of 29 April 2004 on minimum standards for the qualification and status of third-country nationals or persons without citizenship as refugees and as persons who otherwise need international protection and on the content of the protection granted. According to the draft law, the right to an allowance for children as part of systematic family support can be achieved by asylum seekers and foreigners under subsidiary protection. Furthermore, the amendments and additions to the Law on child allowance are also related to other legislative regulations of the Republic of Croatia which have come into force in time since the adoption of this law and with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Following the above, the draft law contains in line with the relevant provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act in accordance with the Income Tax Act, in line with the legal property of the European Union, or the Council Directive, and concerning the provision of asylum seekers and foreigners under subsidiary protection, as well as members of their families of the exercise of the right of child allowance under the Law of Asylum in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia which repeals the provision of Article 55. The Social Care Act, which is called for by the Law on Child Compensation in determining the serious disturbances in the development of a child. In addition to those amendments and additions above, a stronger link between the resolution authorities and the competent services in the exchange of information relevant for the decision on the right to payment for children as well as the responsibility for the offences committed shall be ensured. The proposed amendments to the Law on Extras for Children do not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73397	The committees? Legislative? Family, youth and sport? Madam representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73398	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports at the 39th session held on 13 May discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extras for Children with the Final Proposal for Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 14 April. Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Assembly on the basis of Article 77 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report in question as the home working body. In the opening statement of the applicant's representatives, it was pointed out that these amendments and additions to the Law on Supplements for children provide greater legal certainty for users of extras for children, enables the link between resolution authorities and competent services in the exchange of data relevant for the achievement of allowances, in line with the Law on Administrative Procedure, i.e. other laws essential for the exercise of the right to an allowance for children. He also pointed out that the law is in line with the Council of the European Union Directive ensuring the rights and status of third-country nationals or stateless persons in the area of reaching allowances for children. The members of the board in a brief debate supported the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Extras for Children, which would allow greater and more adequate legal certainty for users of child allowances. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extras for Children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73399	I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Ms. solara Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73400	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. The allowance for children in Croatia, as prescribed by law, is intended for the maintenance and rearing of children. The user of the allowance is the parent or other person designated by the law, and it is in the interest of the user and children to recognise this right, to realize the moment it is achieved. The law thus complies with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. The user shall also be further protected, as payment is arranged through banks, thereby exempting this right from enforcement and guaranteeing its purpose. The law also provides greater legal certainty to the user, the link between the resolution authorities and the competent services in the necessary data exchange. Data are important for the exercise of rights and compliance with other regulations, which are crucial in the exercise of the right to compensation for children. These amendments are in line with the Law on maternity and parental assistance which regulates the right to leave or work with reduced working time for the care of a child with severe interference. There's a new provision. It ensures easier application of the law under the requirements for child benefit for children with developmental difficulties. The law also complies with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia which repeals the provision of Article 55. The social care law in determining serious child development disorders will give such a child the right to a child’s allowance by the end of the year in which it ends 27 years of life. The paper is that such a child will receive a child's allowance based on the opinion of the body of the Health Insurance Institute under the Law on maternity and parental benefits. This law is also in line with the legal property of the European Union, i.e. the Council Directive, and related to the provision of asylum seekers and foreigners under subsidiary protection, as well as members of their families, of the right to an allowance for children under the Asylum Act. In this year's budget, I will remind only of the child's allowance of around 2 billion kuna, and the funds for maternity and parental support are higher by 50 million kuna. I will remind you of another fact that, for example, 39,000 children were born in 2003, and the number of newborn children last year was 44401 children thanks to the state's most intelligent policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As regards child allowance, according to data for April 305 thousand 445 children or 160 thousand 960 users used extra charge for children, i.e. they received an allowance for children expressed in amounts of more than 110 million kuna, all this is according to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute data. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extra for Children, with the final proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73401	Thank you. HNS Club, HSU, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73402	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, and in this respect the law also follows a declaration of compliance with the laws and acts of the European Union and of the Council of Europe. The right to an allowance for children is regulated by the Law of Supplement for children from 2001, with the last amendment, i.e. in 2008. The law is based on the principles of social sensitivity, and thus represents an extremely important document of social policy. The law regulates the conditions for children's allowance users, which include among other things the level of income per household member, citizenship, and related or parental relationship with the child. Under the law, child allowance can be made by a stranger who has an approved permanent stay in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The right to an allowance is also realised by users who care for children with severe developmental disturbances. Since the last amendment to the law, in 2008, a number of new laws and regulations have been passed in Croatia, which now contradict some of the provisions of this law, or make it difficult to apply certain articles. In accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, it goes through the establishment of a competent public institution for the implementation of the procedure for the exercise of the right to compensation, to the appeal and to the level where it is resolved. Consistent with the Asylum Act, the law is introduced as possible users of allowances for children asylum seekers and persons under subsidiary protection with family members. Under this bill, difficulties are eliminated for children with developmental difficulties so that they will be able to exercise the right to a child's allowance, and based on the opinion of the authorised Commission of the Health Insurance Office, and the damage or disease that occurred before the age of 18, is abolished as a criterion, and the right to leave and to part-time for child care purposes is regulated. Which makes all the income of children's allowance users, in line with the Tax on Income Act, and the Law on Mandatory Contributions. The method of payment of the child's allowance is specified, and what and how to act in the situation of death of the child's allowance user. Furthermore, it is legally prescribed who has obligations and powers in terms of asking for checks and delivery of all data affecting the decision to grant a child's allowance. In the following, the law also provides for penalties for offenders of the law. The HNS Club, the HSU will support this bill, but here I have to make a general observation of all these laws that comply primarily with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Here today it is said, I think that my colleague Lesar admired the speeds in which they are coordinated, that is, bringing them into harmony, we, on the contrary, at the club of the HNS, hold HSU that it is inaccessible for a long time to be harmonised, usually between 3 and 5 articles. I especially point out that here in this law that speaks of child support. The law provides 13 articles. I ask, who takes more than six months, namely the government itself set a deadline, on the 6th 10th of last year they gave each other a deadline of 6 months to comply with the laws that were recently passed. So he leaked that deadline. The other more important question than this is who will be responsible for not applying positive shifts in, especially in this law? So I expect the secretary of state to answer these questions, and since it's really about the positive shifts in this law, the HNS Club, the HSU will support the Children's Extras Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73403	Thank you. One correction, Madam Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73404	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, my colleague Hursa incorrectly stated that this law was in conformity only with the General Administrative Procedure Act, because these 13 articles of colleague Hursa you incorrectly stated, and you pointed out the introduction with which all the laws were aligned. And you incorrectly said about the government's decision in 6.10 last year it was found to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and not with everyone else, and therefore it is for this very law to commend the proposing who used the obligation to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act to comply with all the other amendments that have proved necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73405	SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73406	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the child's allowance is one of the measures or one of the rights within the framework of social and family policy which, in modern concepts, is considered to be one of the best or most qualitative forms of support, which can at all be given to the family, and therefore any change and any touching or touching of this law requires special attention. If my colleague Glavak hadn't mentioned the current information about having 305,000 and 405 children's extras, I wouldn't have said anything else. The number of users, i.e. children of children's allowance recipients, is almost identical to that of 10 years ago. In the meantime, in 2001, we passed the Children's Compensation Act, extending the right of children because it is the right of children, extending the right and increasing the child's coverage by child support to almost 550,000 children in Croatia. In these 8, 9 actually nearly 10 years since then, the number of children's rights to children's allowance has dropped more and more due to non-census non-compliance to come here to these again sad 304 thousand, or 305 thousand children's allowance users. So not only did we not increase the coverage but it fell drastically, we can almost see by one third compared to the state we had eight years ago. This is not good because family support through child support as well as through tax relief is one of the most efficient mechanisms to prevent poverty at all in society, especially this socially vulnerable group, and it is about children. As regards the law itself and the three amendments made therein, of course, we welcome any change that goes in terms of reduction, to speak in the language of people's harassment and unnecessary harassment, as is the case in Article 12. The law on child allowance and that we support this amendment because there is really no reason to determine disability or physical damage and those who are over 18 years old if, therefore, there has been an additional determination and thus to expose themselves quite unnecessaryly to these procedures that are still and expensive, they have their own price. Also including in the possibility of obtaining children's allowances to asylum seekers and all holders or those in subsidiary protection status is also a alignment with European legislation and European norms. But another confirmation and a warning to all of us that the social rights that are otherwise considered third-generation rights are, therefore, behind those human rights, behind civil and political rights, that even social rights are increasingly exceeding national limits and are beginning to be considered a general, universal law, as is the case with the right to a child's allowance. True, the Council of Europe resolutions provide for the application of national legislation, but almost all national legislation, not almost, certainly all national legislation in Europe, have or know the children's allowance institute. It is okay, then, that even asylum seekers, or persons in the status of subsidiary protection, have these rights. It would be good to bear in mind that when determining every social right in Croatia we must bear in mind and the fact that these social rights will also apply to foreigners who come and have a stay in Croatia and asylum seekers. Therefore, all those found in Croatia on any basis that these rights are indivisible and that they are not exclusive rights for Croatian citizens only. Of course, this also means that if Croatian citizens find themselves in one of the EU countries on the principle of reciprocity, or not only reciprocity but therefore European values contained in the declarations and directives of the Council of Europe will also be available to our citizens. It's good to keep in mind when making any law. Let me now just say a few words about what I hold particularly controversial in the draft of this law although I could not be responsible for this malpractice, so to speak, to the competent ministry of the legislator of this law but to another ministry. Namely, please, we will now, if this law and such a bill is adopted, send the following message to the citizens of Croatia: all of you who are working and making some kind of salary to the employer to work hard, physically, however you wish, will be in the system that this salary that you have earned so hard is taken as a basis for granting children's allowance. All of you who have money and who have earned income from dividends, for example, no one for that money and that income and that income will ask, and you will be entitled to a child's allowance, they will first not if it exceeds a certain amount. We're sending a message, all of you who have earned your pension if it exceeds a certain amount will not be entitled to a child's allowance. But all of you who have, for example, a share in profits will be entitled to a child's allowance. All of you who exercise your rights therefore by virtue of work, whether present or not, can be excluded from the exercise of this right, but it is explicitly stated in this law that those who have the means of income from dividends, from the share of interest and income on the basis of life insurance and voluntary pension insurance, means that all those who have the money to pay both voluntary pension and life insurance are income, income that thus does not count and does not go into the property, or income price needed to earn children's allowance. It's a bad message, it's an unsocial message. I do not dispute the right of the ruling party who is proposing this law to represent the interests of those who have money derived from profits, from dividends, from interest, from the good cashing out of their assets etc., I do not question it and I do not question it. But it's not the interest of 99% of the country's citizens. The Proposer tells me we're doing nothing but aligning ourselves with the Income Act, only in accordance with this Income Act, although I have to say I don't know why the Income Act would be older than this Act. Why would he be older? In this case, I am not even formally sure that this harmonisation is necessarily necessary, it is possible to say in a special way, although this income law does not determine as income that it is income, otherwise we discriminate against people who do something in this country. Otherwise, in Croatia, the tax is only work, persecuting all the basics only those who do something, these are frightening messages that we send to our public and our citizens, to such small laws. I am very suspicious when it comes to the intentions of the legislator or promoter when it comes to such proposals. I think that less cynicism in our political life would be more desirable, although there is no money, if there is no money that some social right is much more honest to say that there is no money, than to put ourselves in one discriminatory way and especially in such sensitive areas when it comes to extras for children. Here, with these serious remarks, we will only agree whether we will uphold this Law or refrain from supporting such a proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73407	Thank you. One correction. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73408	A colleague Vidovic said if we adopt a bill like this, we would think of... a change and a supplement that we would send a message. He warned with the right to a deep social unfair provision, but if the Parliament adopts this bill, we will not only send a message but we will legalise the fact that a worker whose salary goes beyond the price of 10 kuna will not be entitled to a child's allowance, and someone who earns a profit of 50 thousand kuna will be entitled to a child's allowance. If only it were to send a message, easily so, but this bill, if passed, it would legalize the social injustice proposed in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73409	Ms. Mariana Petir's representative club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73410	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs and Mr. Secretary of State. We often hear from parents saying little kids are a little bit of a worry, big kids are a big deal. Of course, this does not apply only to financial costs, but surely, apart from being a great joy, it is understandable that parents need to give their children the best from their needs to education in order to improve and increase opportunities for a better life in some ways. And it all costs money. The crisis that has affected the Republic of Croatia has affected the lives of Croatian citizens and children in many ways. Unfortunately, there have been warnings that the crisis is the most affected by the most vulnerable groups of societies in which children are going in. If a parent loses his job and, consequently, without income, it will also affect a child whose needs will be less money. Today we are discussing amendments and additions to the Law on Extras for Children and normally, so that everyone in their right mind would like to discuss today that the amount of extras is increasing. However, it is good for the state to care for the youngest and one of the instruments for improving the quality of life of children is a child’s allowance. An allowance for children as a form of monetary adoption of parents, adoptors, stepdads, stepparents, grandparents, grandfathers or persons who, based on a solution of the competent authority, received a child's education and care, is a kind of financial support for child support and the exercise of that right prescribed by the law on child allowance. The law is based on the principle of social sensitivity, i.e. providing support to users, with dependent children whose average monthly income per household article achieved in the previous year does not exceed 50% of the budget base. The law is also a condition for the exercise of the right to a child's allowance prescribed Croatian citizenship for a period of 3 years, an uninterrupted community of life of users and children for whom the right to an allowance, the years of life of a child and the regular education but the longest until 19th and 21st years of life as well as related and other relationships. An allowance for children in Croatia can also be made by a stranger who has an approved permanent stay in her area as well as users for children with severe developmental disturbances established under social care regulations without determining the income censorship by the end of the calendar year in which that child ends 27 years of life. Since the duality in the implementation of this latter rule is required in the application of this right by 31 December 2001 and the beneficiary who has achieved this right has the right to pay for a child with severe health damage and after 27 years of his life and that Croatia will be obliged to coordinate the social security system in which the child's allowance is included, it is necessary to adapt the child's allowance law to such a system on the day of accession to the European Union. Meanwhile, there have been new legal provisions concerning the application of this Law. For example, the Asylum Act has been adopted and the needs of this Act must therefore be brought into line with the Directive on minimum standards to be implemented by Member States in their legislation in terms of more favourable provisions for third-country nationals or stateless persons requiring international protection. By supplementing Article 7, asylum seekers and persons under subsidiary protection as well as members of their families are listed as potential beneficiaries of child allowances. The difficulties in the current application of the law have also arisen from the adoption of the Law on maternity and parental assistance in the section relating to requests for the right to pay for children with developmental difficulties, as well as the decision of the Constitutional Court, which provides for the provision of Article 55. The social care law in the section reads: "if such damage or illness occurred before the 18th year of life was abolished." The proposed new provision of Article 12 of the difficulties in the application of the Law on Extra charge for children under the requirements for the recognition of the right to an allowance for children with developmental disabilities is also averted and will allow the exercise of the right to an allowance for children with developmental difficulties and on the basis of the opinion of the authorised committee of the Institute of Health Insurance which is adopted under the Law on maternity and parental assistance, so that users and their children are not needlessly exposed to additional procedures and costs in order to determine the health status of the child already established. In addition, it is necessary to comply with the provisions of the Income Act in order to clarify what is considered a user's income, and the adoption of the Law on the general administrative procedure of a specific provision of the Law on Payments came into colluding with that regulation, and it is necessary to comply with this measure and necessary for the fulfilment of the criteria in the field of Chapter 19 - Social Policy and Employment, and Chapter 23 - Justice and Fundamental Rights. The adoption of this law will ensure greater legal certainty for users of allowances for children in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, the link between the resolution authorities and the competent services in the exchange of information relevant for the decision on the right to payment, as well as compliance with other regulations which are essential for the exercise of the right to payment for children, and will therefore support this legislative proposal by the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73411	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73412	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Croatian Parliament, or the majority in the Croatian Parliament, at the head of the HDZ, is passing a series of laws by emergency procedure, not to comply with legal gains, EU legislation, but only for the sake of recent elections, for a recent referendum on EU accession and for public deception. The situation in Croatia speaks for the sake of everything said, since a normal Croatian child or a Croatian citizen can't survive for 5 days, one pensioner can't survive for 7 days and one normal Croatian salary without counting on our assembly, one normal Croatian worker who has not participated in the conversion and privatisation, who doesn't want to wait for the crime of conversion and privatisation and cannot or has no reason to wait, can't get old, can't survive 10 days, one average Croatian family who can't survive 15 days with their incomes. This law is not written for their benefit but written solely for the reasons of future and recent elections. However, regardless of what is said, all Croatian laws must be based on the Constitution as well as this debate must be based on the Rules of Procedure adopted by this Croatian Parliament, which one does not like, and someone likes, but it must be the same for MPs and also for the chairman of these sessions. The Constitutional Court, therefore I am speaking and not leaving this topic, since this is a law which must be based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, Jasna Omejec, the President, and the Judges Mato Arlović and I have heard you, Marko Babić, Snježana Bagić, Slavica Banić, Mario Jelusic, Davor Krapac, Ivan Matija, Antun Palarić really finished here, Aldo Radolović, Duška Sarin and Miroslav Šeparović on the basis of his powers to monitor the achievement of the constitutionality and legality and to report to the Croatian Assembly on the observed phenomena of unconstitution and illegality prescribed in Article 128, indent 5. Article 104 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 104 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, National No. 99/99.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73413	Comrade Vinkovic, one moment. ... I remind you to stick to the subject. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] This is not a topic, it is no topic, in no connection is the subject of any report by the Constitutional Court on the observed phenomena of unconstitutionality and illegality.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73414	We're bringing Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73415	I give you a warning, because you don't stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73416	So you can't give me a warning, I stick to the subject, and you prove it to me. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73417	...with taking away words if you continue in this tone and with this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73418	No, not so I'm reading the composition of the Constitutional Court. Are you saying the Constitutional Court composition doesn't suit you?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73419	Do you understand me? If you continue with this topic, I'll give you a reminder by taking away your words.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73420	Okay, if I keep going, then you'll give me a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73421	Please proceed now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73422	So, you have, among other things, violated this entire Businessman because you interrupt me and because you do not want to hear what I want to say. And this is very much related to the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Extra charge on Children, because every law, Mr. Chairman, must be in accordance with the Constitution except in some countries where the whole dictatorship is. I hope you are not a dictator, but you are one democratic president, or vice president of the Croatian Parliament. So let me finish. So, as long as this Croatian Parliament does not hold the debate, it is obvious that the vice president is in such a mood to take away my word, so I will finish this presentation until the Croatian Parliament has held a debate on the report on constitutionally unacceptable effects.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73423	You're right. I'm taking your word. Please leave the assembly room.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73424	Until then this Croatian Parliament...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73425	Please leave the assembly room.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73426	He can't pass any laws because every law that we, as advocates, is unconstitutional. I don't need a guard. I'll be out. I'm Mr. Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73427	Okay, well, now I'm telling you a measure of distance from this session.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73428	We don't put the gentlemen in an awkward situation. Thank you very much. I thought three yellow cards were going first...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73429	They're not going. There's a Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73430	You're straight up, like that Italian guy, red. But the citizens will give us all, either green or yellow or red cardboard. You have to be aware of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73431	That's what we're all perfectly aware of. Except for those who can't be aware. ... That's not what I meant by you. That's what I meant by those who aren't aware of it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If you remember, I told you a measure of distance from the session. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If you don't do it right now, then I'll tell you in double the length of that distance from the session. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I am now interrupting the session until that measure is implemented. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In this House in the 20 years of this Parliament since the 1990s, we haven't had a situation. For the 20th year, I have been chaired in various situations as President of the Parliament and vice-president of the Assembly, but such insults as have been shared towards the chairman and such an attempt to obstruct have not been recorded in this assembly in the past 20 years. I must and must respect and protect the Rules of Procedure and the Law, but I cannot and must not tolerate any representative from the post of such an insult, such a meal according to the chairman is yet unmarked. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73433	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. And in the light of this bill and the description of the state assessment, the Government has argued that it has encountered four problems that need to be brought back into line. The first problem was given to her by the Constitutional Court by its decision when it annulled the provisions of Article 55. The social care law. Another problem arises from the adoption of a new Law with maternity and parental support, so this law needs to be amended. The third problem encountered Council Directive 204/83 EC. And the fourth problem is that there is a law here that prescribes what is considered to be the income of the user, so the tax system. And that's why the government proposed changes. Whether these changes include solutions to some of the problems of citizens, facilitate the exercise of rights and what I am particularly interested in whether the state will in any way control the purpose of the child's allowance in part of the users. But first, I really can't understand why tax laws must be the basis for calculating income in a family for obtaining children's allowance, so we're really going to have a situation where people who, because of wages or other tax revenues, fall out of the right to use extras for their children in a subordinate position in relation to which they earn two, three or ten times the income, receive from the titles of those non-taxable incomes. Is the material status of a family that wants to exercise the right to a child's allowance related to the total income, so the amount of money they are making and what is the social criterion to exempt from receiving, for example, dividends or interest? What is the purpose of a child's allowance? Is that money the right of parents or children or children? Why is there a children's allowance institute? If this is because of children and children, then they really cannot accept that those citizens who make high incomes from dividends, interest or other interests have the right to a child's allowance, and those who live on a salary that is often messy, which is more than 12 months late only because of the social censorship will fall out of the category of citizens who will make it right. Does this have anything to do with social justice? How are we going to explain to the citizens that the pay is going into account, but if you have a dividend of 100 000 kuna per year, you are aware that there is a problem in the control and control of data or documents that applicants are giving, and that there is a lot of everything, that there is a part of the citizens who, most of their own or almost all of their assets, are formally transferred to others and when you look at them on paper, the regiments are poor, and on the other hand, the real social or material status is five, six times bigger than those workers who have fallen out just because they are paid, say, above average and have 2 or 3 family members, 3 or 4. And this dilemma whether it's a child's right and that money goes for a child or a parent's right to tear me apart all the time. Because in Article 30a. There's a provision I don't understand until the end, so maybe you can explain it to me. The Institute, therefore, is obliged and authorised to establish and verify personal data, income achieved, compliance with legal, medical and other conditions for the achievement and application of the right to compensation for children. And the use of rights, and whether the institute is authorized to control the use, the use of those funds. You are probably not aware that a part of parents who receive not one but 4, 5, 6 children's extras in full is not used for children, but rather for a new form of interest where the child's allowance is a guarantee for the return of debts and that on the day of payment of the child's allowance in front of post office and banks they are standing outside waiting for women who come to raise the child's allowance and take away that money. Kids have no use for that. Those kids are still begging. Those kids still don't pay for lunch at school, they don't buy bus tickets. However, there is no possibility under this law to intervene social services, and now if this control implies both control of the way and use of these funds to reroute part of the child allowance directly to the institutions of the system and not to the parents' money. I'm saying this because of the children's interests. Once the child’s allowance has been granted, it is also a matter of national concern to see how parents who made that money from the child’s title use it. And I'll finish the next one. The role of the state apparatus and the state administration is not only to adopt regulations, it proposes laws and regulations, but to help citizens and to protect their own rights. Now let's see how your ministry helped citizens protect their rights at the moment of entry into force of the new Implementing Law. No state institution in Croatia has given clear instructions in time to citizens receiving social transfers, to open special accounts in FINA, or through FINA in a business bank, in order to avoid the implementation of social transfers, which were based on their regular accounts. Only after a hundred cases, when the funds left the social transfer scholarships and thanks to the work of the media that then began to provide this information and instructions, these people began to open special accounts to avoid a stupid situation that due to lack of information, due to the lack of public or state administration interest to help citizens to protect their rights avoid it. I cannot understand that neither the Ministry, nor the institutions, offices, administrations, lawyers that we have most in Europe, no one acts preventively and thus through public media helps citizens, first to come to some rights, and those rights that have protection with such simple instructions as they should have done here. And I was speaking at the previous point, and now I'm saying, Secretary of State isn't just the job of the ministry to propose and the stamp of the law, let's try to start with the role of your ministry, and your own personality to be on behalf of citizens, to help them and to help them in times of time, in time, with timely and clear information, help them to exercise our rights. If I understand your climate well, and please confirm this, Article 30a means that the Institute, the Pensions Institute, will have the authority to monitor and control how children's allowance users use these funds. For the record... Please, this is extremely important, because if that's not the case, then I ask who's authorized because social services aren't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73434	Thank you. Two replicas. First, Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73435	My colleague, I think you've asked in your debate what's bothering me, I'd say now hundreds of thousands and thousands of citizens of our country. Namely, the new Act of Conduct, although it is said, cannot be the subject of a child's supplement, that there can be no child support, maternity compensation, disability, and what is strictly defined by law and protected from the rule of state through its financial agency, the border and kidnapping of children, kidnapping of people with disabilities, kidnapping of mothers, and here, here now the minister, or secretary, is busy on the phone, telephones how he's figured out today and he's not, and what you're asking yourself is what this ministry has done with the rest of the ministry, because exactly the jurisdiction and control of the operation has the Ministry of Finance. So it's an inadmissible situation, and that's what we opposition deputies are talking about, the state here and there, and the press are asking them through their representatives, and some unmistakable answer is that they're going to reconsider the law a little bit. The law is clear, and the implementation is criminal to the harm of the family, to the harm of the children, and it must be stopped, that against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73436	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73437	Yes, colleagues Ingrid, this is a classic example when we stamp at a high speed of law, and the resolutions don't ask each other how this application will go. And indeed, at the moment of the entry into force of the new Act of Conduct, I personally tried to clarify and help people avoid the implementation of social transfers, bypassing the FINA counters, talking to banks, for the first month no one was able to manage the system. And the question of why social transfers, although the law should not have ended it, was that they did not know from which title the money came into account. Only 2 months later, forms appeared, and not thanks to the state, the public administration, but to NGOs, forms of submission and authorisation, the opening of special accounts of citizens who have started to be paid in FINA to approve a special bill for the reception of social transfers that cannot be put into effect. But I assure you that there are still citizens today who don't know, who no one has given that direction, and because of that, social transfers can end up in business for them today. And I'm asking a question, well what has to happen, how many people have to fall through the holes of the systems that we've made in order for the public administration to react in a way that prevents it, by providing accurate, timely information, or we really don't think it's the job of the state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73438	Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73439	Thank you very much. In your discussion, you have also expressed a kind of skepticism about whether this innovative child allowance law will provide greater legal certainty to the users of extras for children. Because the greater the legal certainty on paper, if everyday practice actually defuses it. Namely, I was offered on the replica by one recent case of the mother of five children from Međimurje County, who neatly delivered to the Pension Insurance Office all the necessary documentation for the achievement of the right to a child's allowance, however, the allowance was not received. When she addressed the competent branch of the Pension Insurance Office in Varazdin and asked what was going on with her case, she received the answer that there were simply too few employees at the branch office, so four of them, and that they could not do the job in a short time. She was also told that she should not be worried, for she will receive this back payment. I note that this extra to the mother represents half of the total home budget. And I wonder if any of the civil servants are wondering, therefore, from civil servants, whose impeccableness caused the mother to not receive an allowance in time, how she survived that time with five children, without any extras, which is the basic source of her income.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73440	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73441	My colleague Jelash, you said... the documents submitted with a request. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] When we introduced the OIB system, I was dreaming and I was really convinced that before we join the EU, we would arrange Croatia in the following way: a citizen comes before the public or state authorities' body and on a list of papers he writes his name and last name, his OIB and what he needs, what he wants. And that, thanks to the OIB system, the body to which the citizen has addressed himself will only, on official duty, obtain the necessary documents to approve or reject the right of the citizen. Instead, however, we still have a situation where, for example, when we enroll in high school, we need to bring in a copy of the Book of Birth, although you have a personal ID card. So, even in the system of children's allowances, citizens must collect a bunch of documents although we expected that the Pensions Institute, at least those two such as pension and health, would be ready for the OIB system from the first day of entry into force, and that should be if I'm not wrong on 01.01 this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73442	Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73443	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Family support is a priority goal of empowering families in raising children, starting with maternity leave to work with reduced working hours for child care, monthly cash compensations and single cash aids. The allowance for children in the Republic of Croatia has a significant place in the family support system. And for this reason, I will support the submitted proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Supplements for children with the final proposal for a law that is in line with the acquis of the EU and bearing the label P.Z.E. But it is also in line with the Constitutional Court's provision, the Constitutional Court's decision is in line with the Council's Directive, the Income Tax Act and the clear what is why in this set of laws that bring Croatian laws in line with the provisions of the new General Administrative Procedure Act. However, these proposed amendments and additions to the laws in addition to these amendments also ensure a stronger link between the resolution authorities and the competent services in the exchange of information relevant for the decision on the right to compensation for children as well as responsibility for the offences committed. And unlike some predecessors, I therefore support those articles that determine what income is, the total income of the family as the basis for establishing those families who have the right to receive children's allowance. Likewise, those infringements contained in Article 12 of these amendments and in addition to which criminal provisions are prescribed for those who violate, or abuse, the exercise of the right to a child's allowance. For those who remained surprised by the number of colleagues Glavak delivered, the number of children's extras for the month of April, i.e. the data from April, which refers to the month of March, which are surprised how few are said to be few users. In April there were, number of children 305 445 and number of users 160 960 users. I would remind myself that during their government they had such depopulation measures that led to a significant reduction in the number of newborn children because I will remind you that in 1999 the number of newborn children in the Republic of Croatia was 45 179. In 2000, it fell to 43,000 to 40,000 to end in 2003 with 39,668 live births or 15,400 children less than in the previous 3, or 4 years. If it is small, if this is a small number of extra users I would like to remind you that in 2010 from the state budget it was paid for the surcharge, on behalf of child allowance, a billion 722 million and 300 thousand kuna. That the total number of children was 390 thousand 346, so for 2010. That the number of users was 206,000 295 users. So they're parents, guardians who use this rule. Along with the maternity or maternity benefits paid in 2010 from the state budget, this is the amount, for the maternity benefits of 2 billion, 196 million kuna. So these 2 figures, child allowance and maternity benefits totaling 3 billion 918 million kuna, have not been reduced in the 2011 State budget either. And this is evidence of the most intelligent and population policy that the Croatian government has been determined for since the time when today's Prime Minister was the minister of family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. And finally, let's not forget that since 2004, we have the Ministry of the Family as part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So we know they're still, here's the 5th month, the data available is on March 2010. We know that the renewal of the request was ongoing, we can expect by the end of the year to increase the number of users, and clearly then the number of children covered by this fee. I am sorry that for those who have been disbursed due to the performance of the funds that have been paid to their bank accounts on behalf of child allowance and I hope that this will soon be improved and that we will no longer prove that the good laws are good laws and that we are equally good at their implementation. From this point on, I will support the amendments and additions to the Children's Compensation Act as delivered by the Government in the text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73444	Thank you. Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73445	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I may in a bit of a strange way begin my individual debate precisely because I am surprised by the way and the amount of demagogue thinking to say so about the Law that is now ahead of us because you are just getting the impression, colleagues and colleagues don't mind me, that we actually want to say that 2/3 of our parents who have achieved the right to a child's allowance unsustainably and unintendedly benefit from the funds for the child's allowance. This is simply not true, this is where we must say that Croatia is, among other things, a social state, we must stress that they are definitely the basis of this Law in social sensitivity both towards children and motherhood and also that this Law contributes to greater security for the achievement of the right to child benefits. It was also being dragged through the debate of the thesis that we do not have sanctions for those parents who are accidentally using funds for child benefit, and that is also not true. Just now, my colleague Bilić Vardić spoke about this dimension, and I must say that during the time that the president was vice president, and the minister of family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, she also made a significant step in her portfolio along with the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and just when we can talk about the protection of children's rights and the provision of material rights installed instruments in the family law as well as in the Social Care Act. In both present and future, the new Social Care Act provides for sanctions for unintended parents. As one example, such parents and conditionally stated can earn a warning measure of failures in parental care as well as a possible monitoring measure of parental care. Secretary of State, you've done a good job, the Law is good, because other than harmonising with the General Administrative Procedure Act, it also complies with the Income Tax Act and the Law on Mandatory Contributions. We must say once again that the purpose of child support is to support and raise children. As empty as it may seem, he really has that purpose and the greatest majority of parents accomplish exactly and spends it for this purpose. It is also inappropriate to hear that we have children's allowance users who make a dividend of 100 thousand kunas, so please nice, I really can't understand some things, and besides that in the first-degree procedure it is precisely determined, this is the right that is achieved by the basis of regular incomes. Which a citizen or citizen of the Republic of Croatia can exercise the right to a child's allowance and have a savings or a share in a share company and have a dividend of 100 thousand kuna. I don't think it really holds water and we won't fall for that kind of thinking. This law also ensures greater security and children, as well as parents, is a better link between the resolution bodies in the exchange of data that are important for the exercise of rights and for the purpose of protecting users, and by excluding child benefits we also heard that there have also been some failures, but we hope that in some future coming time such unfortunate situations will also be left behind. Amendments made for the purpose of harmonising with the Law on maternity and parental assistance which regulates the right to leave, i.e. working with reduced working time for the care of a child with severe interference. A new provision removes difficulties in applying this Law to children with developmental difficulties. We're also aware that article 55. The social care law was abolished, or declared against the constitution, it reads: "If such damage or illness occurred before the age of 18, the basis of this Law will allow the exercise of the right to a child's allowance for children with developmental disabilities, for a child with severe health damage whose damage occurred 18 years ago and will belong to his right, i.e. the right to a child's allowance by the end of the calendar year in which he ends 27 years of life". The paper is that children's allowance for a child with developmental difficulties will also be able to achieve the basis of the opinion of the authorised body of the health insurance institution and according to the Law on maternity and parental support. Furthermore, this Law is in line with the acquis of the European Union and allows asylum seekers and foreigners under subsidiary protection and members of their families to exercise their right to a child's allowance under the Asylum Act. This harmonisation is important in the field of Chapter 19 of Social Policy and Employment, and in the 23rd Justice and Fundamental Rights Directive of the Council on Minimum Standards. For the qualifications and status of third-country nationals or stateless persons, as refugees or persons who otherwise need international protection. Finally, I will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Supplements for Children with the Final Proposal for the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73446	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73447	I'm correcting an incorrect quote from a colleague who repeatedly contrary to what the law says claims that someone who makes a profit and a dividend income can't get a child's allowance. That's not true. That is why the Law in Article 19 changes, says that it is the opposite of Article 9. Income laws consider the dividend realised in profit, interest, income...life insurance, pension insurance by income. Income is a census at the child's addition of a colleague. If someone's out of a job, let's just say it doesn't work, and he's got it all, he's entitled to a child's allowance, he's entitled to it. So don't get people into fornication. We don't make up what you're talking about here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73448	Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73449	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me say right away at the beginning, I will support the adoption of this law, related to everything my predecessors have said especially from the HDZ Club, and because it is also one law that is passed and harmonised with the legal regulatory EU. And we see that here today there is also a declaration of its compliance with the acquis of the EU and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. How important that is, I don't have to talk about it, all of us who are well-intentioned. We heard these days that Croatia had almost closed down, almost before Chapter 23 was closed, and also other chapters, and that we are really on the move, that this government has reached a step towards joining the EU. But I'm going to say something about this law on child allowance, and it is closely related to population policy in Croatia and the role of government in this policy. In 2004, a proposal for a national population policy was adopted and the Government of the Republic of Croatia took concrete steps to restore the dignity of the family by raising the amount of maternity benefits and extending the rights of parents and births and a positive effect was soon shown by stopping further decline and a slight increase in the number of newborn children during 2004, fifth and sixth years. Why am I saying this? Because, unfortunately, during the period of the coalition government from 2000 to 2003, with all their social sensitivity, they reduced where it is most painful, they cut off the birth benefits, the child's allowance, and right now we're still following the increase in the birth of children, but then it was stopped. A further step towards stopping the negative democratic movements of the Government of the Republic of Croatia took place in 2006 by adopting a national population policy. With this comprehensive document, the Government of the Republic of Croatia selected guidelines for further activities aimed at rejuvenation, stopping, further falling of the total population and stopping unfavourable movements towards the growing age structure of the population in Croatia. I must say that this document has been adopted to insist on the Minister of the Family and Defence then, and today's Prime Minister, Mrs Kosor, who fought very hard from 2000 to 2003 not to abolish the rights and births and not to abolish the additions, but unfortunately did not come in favor here. These years, thanks to God when she could do this, and this national population policy is particularly respecting our historical development, culture, customs, ethical values, and a positive atmosphere towards family, marriage and children as a unique and irreplaceable physical, social, emotional, spiritual and economic potential of society, promotes a new awareness of family needs and challenges, promotes the need to see families and children as guarantees of social development and survival, promotes a new relationship between family, state, local communities and economy, promotes society to protect and strengthen the role of family, promotes the development of institutional and outside-institutional services for children and families, encourages and encourages families in building their own resources in the direction of everyday challenges. All of this is covered through 7 areas of national population policy action, which are sustainable economic development, based development assumptions, family support system, tax relief, family and business life coordination, child care, mother and child health care and sensitisation and information. It is also necessary to say that in 2004, by amending the rules, the Government of the Republic of Croatia took the first steps towards providing support and strengthening the family with newborn children. Birth benefits for unemployed mothers from 900 kn were raised to a thousand 600 kn, and for working mothers during an additional maternity leave of 6 months provided funds for the payment of birth benefits of between 1,000 and 2.5 thousand kuna. This was the first necessary response to the founding and extremely worrying democratic movements that took place between 2000 and 2003, and as a consequence of the coalition government's policy towards family and birthrights and beneficiaries' drastic reductions. What I would like to say is that in 2008 there was a particularly positive shift when 43 thousand 753 children were born, or 10.3% more than in 2003, and any such shift towards the top is extremely satisfying and therefore we will support all laws that are in the welfare of children, families and demographic explosions. This visional impact could be linked to the stability of government initiatives, but with the improvement and upgrade of birth benefits systems and the fact that a systematic implementation of national population policy began in 2007. Starting on 1 January 2007, the right to pay was extended in such a way that the average payment per member of the household as a condition for their acquisition from 40% of the budget base was raised to 50% of the budget base, a promising supplement of 500 kn for the 3rd and 4th child entitled to an allowance was introduced, the minimum amount was raised for children from 163.30 kn to 199.56 kn, and three income classes were introduced instead of the then established by the individual amount of surcharge. In the period 2001 to 31 July 2010, a total of 16 billion 528 million kuna has been allocated from the state budget for children's allowance, and since 2007 a total of 528 million kunas have been allocated to the innovative add-on to a billion 310 million kuna alone. Here I think that everyone who wanted to be well-intentioned and listen carefully saw what this government did, that we didn't bring all these laws into this Croatian Parliament when we were coordinating with the European Union, that we tied them to a pre-election campaign because this House was making a lot of, a lot of laws that the opposition didn't vote for and that no one in the election year would bring. This government brought them here because it has courage and that's why these days we're seeing all the praises for this government. I am amazed only, and in reality and not, by the opposition MPs who speak in this way today about all these laws, and here is this Law on the Children's Supplement, which is indeed the case in Europe. This means that there is control, and Europe knows censorship, so Croatia knows it as well. Today you're talking about some issues of opposition counseling, and it's recently 2000 years ago, and you've so facelessly abolished all of this and birth benefits and additions and you haven't taken care of anything. Today, I don't know how you've turned around in your pre-election time, so you're waiting for the election to put an end to all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73450	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73451	Mr. Vice President, it's probably a lapus, and Mrs. Sumrak has been talking about the government's measures to Eve Sanader's told these governments. Given how many current ministers, members of the government and former associates of Mr. Sanader's efforts are being fenced around him, I think you could even win a party sanction because this government connects with the government of Ivo Sanader, and we know that no one in the HDZ remembers him anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73452	What was that correction? ... Replica, Ms. Ljubica Lukačić. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73453	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's colleague twilight, I'd like to support your debate, but I think it's necessary to mention something about this provision of Article 3 of this law that many colleagues have mentioned here today, but I would like to point out something that is extremely important to parents who have children with developmental difficulties. Namely, this provision amending Article 12. The law on child allowance not only eliminates difficulties in applying this law but extends the circle of those parents who will be able to pay child care, so those parents who have children with developmental disabilities. What is extremely important here to note, that the government has taken care of this so that no additional funding from the state budget will be needed, given that this is about enlargement, but the redistribution of funds within the framework of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity will provide funds for this expansion. This is extremely important, therefore, for those children and for those parents when it happens, don't let God suffer, and after 18 years of life. So, as a personal disability, as well as an allowance for children will now be able to achieve a greater number of users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73454	Thank you. I'm sorry, I forgot, I raised my hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73455	All right, well, you got your arm hurt, so fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73456	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lukačić, thank you for talking about this subject, and you are also famous for the fact that it is indeed a subject when it comes to persons with disabilities, in this case children are your subject and that you are in favour of full law, and you have found in this Government of course and in the Government of which Mrs Jadranka Kosor is headed, but this is the continuity of the HDZ Government, full support in your demands. I just wanted to say one sentence, and from the letter, and you know, that's Dr Bobosha, that was just about the 3rd of May, so it's the date of entry into force of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, where Dr Bobosh says that he is particularly pleased that the Republic of Croatia is headed by the current prime minister, and then the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government and the Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity Mrs Jadranka Kosor was among the first countries to be determined to fully respect human rights persons with disabilities. What's important, here's a colleague, and now you've said yourself, we're passing this law, last week the Social Care Act, where no acquired rights have been lifted by persons with disabilities or children. Of course, what makes you very happy is that it's also defined as an inclusive supplement. I say this, therefore, not from the EPP of any propaganda and choice but this is the continuity of indeed social sensitivity, but also what the HDZ Government is doing and doing for people.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73457	Thank you. At 12.20, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Mr. Representative Perica Bukic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73458	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. State Secretary, fellow MPs. By supporting the proposed legislative proposal, I would like to point out that Croatia as a state which has clearly and unequivocally defined itself as a member of the European Union is simply obliged to come up with the most qualitative solution for this important segment of child care. The allowance for children is the monetary income used by the parent and other person designated by law for financial support for the purpose of supporting and raising children who have a naturally significant place in the family support system. The right to compensation for children is obtained and realised, as we have already heard, depending on the number of children and the total income of members of the household of users and other conditions laid down by law. In order to achieve the right to an extra payment for children, the extramarital community is equal to the marriage community. I also think that one more time it should be stressed that the allowance for children cannot be subject to enforcement or insurance, except according to the court's decision to abstain for the benefit of children for whom the allowance is made. The allowance for children is personally the right of users and cannot be transferred to another person, and it can be extremely paid to another person. If both spouses can obtain the right to an allowance for children, they are obliged to agree which of them will exercise the right to do so, and the right to an allowance can only be obtained on one basis. All tasks related to the exercise of the right of child allowance are carried out by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, and the supervision of the legality of the work of insurance in the activities of carrying out the payment of allowances for children is carried out by the Agency for the Family of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. The law is based on the principle of social sensitivity, i.e. providing support to users with dependent children whose average monthly income per member of the population achieved in the previous year does not exceed 50% of the budget base. In addition to these conditions, the law is prescribed as a condition for the exercise of the right of citizenship of the Republic of Croatia for 3 years uninterrupted. A community of lives of users and children who are entitled to an allowance, a year of child's life, a regular schooling but the longest to 19 and 21 years of life, respectively, and the relevant related or other relationships in accordance with the law. According to the Law on Child Compensation, a stranger who has an approved permanent stay in the territory of the Republic of Croatia may also be granted an allowance. The right to compensation is also exercised by users for children with severe developmental disturbances established under social care regulations without determining income censorship by the end of the calendar year in which 27 years of life ends. Since the date of entry into full membership of the European Union, the Republic of Croatia will be obliged to coordinate the social security system in which family benefits are regulated in Croatia by the Law on child allowance and, consequently, to facilitate the implementation of the European Union rules in the coordination of the social security system in this area, it is necessary to make certain adjustments to the Law on child allowance. We have also seen from the adopted, or proposed legal supplements, the addition of Article 7 as possible users of extras for children are listed both asylum seekers and persons under subsidiary protection as well as members of their families. In any event, the basis of the new provisions in this article will also allow the exercise of the right to compensation for children with development difficulties, based on the opinion of the Authorised Commission of the Health Insurance Office adopted under the Law on maternity and parental support. Here's the bottom line. I think this is one bill of law that needs to be supported and my congratulations to the legislator on this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73459	Thank you. Ms. Representative Sonja Simunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73460	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues, the secretary of state, and I actually have one question, in fact, one vagueness, so I believe that the Secretary of State will be able to answer me. It concerns this Article 3, which says: "For a child with severe health impairment established according to special regulations, an allowance for children is due by the end of the calendar year, which ends 27 years of life." I mean, first of all, I'm concerned about a 27-year-old who's not a child at all, so even though a person with developmental disorders isn't a child like no 27-year-old person is a child. I don't think that's an acceptable definition, and that's the whole kid's extra and 27-year-old story at all. But well, that's another topic, another story to discuss. I'm curious now, so far as you've explained, there's been a duality in the application of the law so far. Here in reason it says the law prescribed duality in its application, so the user who obtained the right to pay child allowance by 31 December 2001 has the right to an allowance for a child with severe health damage and after 27 years of life. That means we had two categories. Children's allowance users with developmental disturbances who, therefore, achieved this right by December 31st received a child's allowance after the person was 27 years old. And those who later made it, they lost that allowance when the person turned 27. Of course it's unconstitutional and it's unfair, but then it turns out that actually by passing this law, certain families, certain children's extras for people with developmental disorders who have received an allowance so far after a person has turned 27 by passing this law, will actually be left without these monthly incomes. Did I get that right, and is that how it works? So basically many families are left without 830 kuna monthly incomes after this law is passed. Then no wonder you wrote that this law would not, no need to provide additional funding. Not that it's not necessary, but in fact, this law is going to add additional funding to the state budget and it's actually going to blend with the most vulnerable and socially sensitive families, which are families that have people with disabilities in their development. I was looking for information to see how many people like that were and I couldn't find them, and it wasn't legally stated. It does not even mention the financial amount of savings generated. But I was able to find the data from 2009, and it says that, according to that data, there were 13622 children who were entitled to a child's allowance. So, people with developmental disturbances. And we've heard before from your colleagues that the total number of children's allowance users is 305,000. So in some percentage of people with severe damage to them, they make up about 3.6% which is a drop in the sea. I also found information that in 2009 the monthly amount for children's extras for people with developmental difficulties amounted to 3 million kunas. So, the monthly amount. It's also a drop in the sea. This amounted to 36 million kuna a year, and let's say that we know that one painting of tunnels made by some of your high-ranking members of the party that damaged the state by about 20, 30, 50 million. Now the last estimates are I don't know that 750 million kunas have taken corruption from the state budget. And then we do the following, which is to save not even 3 million kunas, but much less. Because some kids who have turned 27 have already lost that child's allowance and we're actually doing one by myself amazing thing, one so rude, I have to say because I don't see the other expression that on the one hand corruption is carrying so much money, and on the other hand, we're looking for the most vulnerable families in this country, and then we find them and then we take from them the little receipts that they've had. If that means that I read out of this law, and I think it does. I don't really know what to say anymore, because I'm totally speechless and I totally can't believe where you're going and I don't think you have any self-critics, that you don't have any sense for the citizens who chose you for this power. I understand that it is not right that this injustice should be corrected and that it is counter-constitutional, but perhaps you could correct it in a way that you then left a child's allowance to all users after children with developmental disorders are 27 years old. So everyone should at least take that child's allowance for a while and after 27 years, maybe another year or two, or I don't know how long, and when this crisis settles down, and all of this is to find some way to make that child's allowance a much more just distribution. Because we know that the fact is that this supplement does not take into account income censorship, maybe we should take it, maybe we should make classes and find a criterion in which to share that child's allowance, but I don't think now is the time to at this point, a difficult moment of much uncertainty, a lot of anxiety when many family members are out of work that this law actually takes the most vulnerable group in society and these monthly incomes that aren't God knows what, but I believe that many people mean everyday survival. That's what I was gonna say, and if I'm right, and if I read this law right. Well, I'd like the secretary of state to explain that provision a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73461	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Stjepan Adanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73462	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. In the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the family is defined as the fundamental value of society, and we all know here that children are actually our greatest treasure. We're all here for our future, and our future is children. In this regard, I have already said that this Government for maternity and parental support, the most promising supplement, the child's allowance and the rest, is to allocate more than 4 billion kuna annually, and if we compete with other Member States of the European Union then we see that we are above the average, which is what we are particularly happy and happy about, because we are a country that is extremely socially sensitive and in this extremely sensitive area, very important for our further life and for our families. I must also say here that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent this law here primarily to comply with the acquis of the European Union, and that is why it goes into haste procedure, and then with other laws, means the Law on Administrative Procedure, the Law on Income Taxation, and with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. As regards child allowance, all the countries of the European Union, including the Republic of Croatia, shall make sure that according to material status, i.e. according to the census, it decides who will have a child's allowance, who will not have it. That's how it is in the Republic of Croatia. So it's true who can have, who can't have, the material status of a family is seen and the censorship of a family is watched so that this family can get or maybe not get a child's allowance. There were questions and who was in control. I have to say here that control, as we all know here, is carried out by social care centres, means control of child's allowance is carried out by welfare centres, and if there are irregularities, then the welfare center must absolutely react in the right sense. As far as the execution is concerned, there's been a lot of words here about the execution, why it's a child's allowance. I must say here that this has been settled by Implementing Law, Article 91(1) of point 5. The implementing law and the rules on the handling of receipts and fees excluded from the application. So this system is completely legally resolved, if there are any doubts, then let's say it's a social care centre problem that needs to sensitize people in its field so that they can get their child's allowance into a special account and so they don't have a joint account and then the bank sits down and that part of the money that can't be spent on. As for the third child's article with serious health damage, we did so according to the Constitutional Court's decision, but all those children, in fact, are no longer children because they are over 27 years old, so all these persons and families have the right to other laws, have other social rights, which are also embedded in our legal system, so that they will not be left without worry. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73463	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Child Supplements. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extra charge on children. Please let us vote. The result? I find that with 95 votes for, 4 abstentions and 1 against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extras for Children.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73466	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. The conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has the responsibility to draw up proposals for amending and supplementing laws from administrative areas within their jurisdiction, in order to comply with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act or as we say in the everyday application of the ZUP. As it is under the authority of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure whose representative I am, among other things, laws, I repeat laws concerning railways, cableways, and mail, i.e. These four laws. In short, I would like to express what is actually done in the laws, the Honorable Vice President has said what is changing. The 2007 Railway Safety Act therefore regulates the conditions and arrangements for the safe, orderly, regular, smooth operation of rail transport, further functioning of the rail system as a whole, as well as the competence of the authorities responsible for the implementation and supervision of their implementation. The Law on cableways for the transport of persons from 2007, then and in 2009, the amendments regulate essential requirements for the design, production, construction, construction and operation of cableways for the transport of persons, other conditions for the safety of the operation of cableways and the safety of persons using cableways, the acquisition of the right to build certain types of cableways, the management of the cableway, which includes the economic use and the authority's competence to implement the law and control its implementation. Furthermore, the third Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Markets for Railway Services of 2007, then and the 2009 amendment, was practically made to ensure transparent and impartial operation of rail transport activities carried out as public transport services, and to ensure open and non-discriminatory behaviour between infrastructure managers and railway undertakings. This law established the Agency for the Regulation of the Railway Markets, and practically its full function will also be achieved by opening the railway services market, i.e. by liberalising it. The fourth law that we mention here, which is in line with the ZUP, is the Law on postal services in postal services, prescribes the conditions for the provision of these services, regulates the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the provider and the postal service user, determines the business of the Croatian Postage and Electronic Communications Agency known as H-COM, but in that section relating to regulatory transactions in the field of postal services. In addition, it shall be arranged to carry out inspection and expert supervision in the field of postal services and other questions related to the provision of postal services shall be addressed. The amendments which take place under those 4 are legally and substantively in line with, or in certain provisions, in terms of substance and substance in accordance with the provisions of the ZUP. The terms and conditions of compliance shall be carried out with the relevant amendments and the substantive harmonisation of certain legal provisions which are prescribed to be settled in the administrative procedure, followed by the way in which the procedures and deadlines are implemented with the relevant provisions of the ZUP. That I, in principle, are very similar articles, and what may be more important to stress is that all these four laws, or amendments, do not require additional funding in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73467	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HNS-HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73468	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'll start by saying that the HNS-HSU club will support all four bill proposals. At the beginning, we heard from the secretary of state what was changing. I might just add that, in the case of the Law on Postal Services, except that certain provisions of the Law of general administrative procedure are in line with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act and one mistake that has occurred in the current law so far. Here I will repeat, I am sorry that my colleague Vardić is now gone, and we at the HNS-HSU Club have noticed the slowness in the process of harmonising the law with the General Administrative Procedure Act. We do not understand who in the ministry does not respect the government's decision which asked the laws to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act, so that term leaked on 6 April, and the efficiency of the Government should actually be demonstrated in line before that term. Because like I said, it's either one article or three to five articles that need to be harmonised. So if such a thing and such inactivity were to happen in the real sector, it would be known exactly what the employer would do. It's impossible for such a thing to happen in one production, and here's the ministry, or the ministry employees, to afford the luxury of not respecting certain legal deadlines, but to break them, and then we still have an explanation as we just heard from the child's allowance that I was wrong. I was right because it also said that it was necessary to bring the General Administrative Procedure Act into line within 6 months, which did not happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73469	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73470	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I should say that the HDZ Club will support the adoption of all three of these draft laws. Therefore, the first proposal of the Railway Safety Act regulates the conditions and arrangements for the safe operation of rail transport, the functioning of the system as well as the supervision of its implementation. Therefore, in these amendments and additions to the Railway Safety Act, in fact, they change as well as the other three laws, in fact 2, 3 articles, and the most important amendment is, therefore, the provision of Article 87 which is in line with Article 97. The General Administrative Procedure Act, which provides for the form of a solution. Therefore, Article 87 is amended and the first paragraph reads: "Inspector sets out the prohibitions, orders and other measures in writing." In paragraph 2, ‘Extremely from the provision of paragraph 1 of this Article in the event of an emergency action to remove the immediate danger to the safe course of rail traffic, the inspector may also adopt a solution orally.’ And in the third paragraph, "The infrastructure manager of rail transport is the right of a person carrying out transport for his own purposes, an industrial railway, as well as other legal and natural persons, to act on an inspector's solution within a specified time limit." And in Article 1: "As the General Administrative Procedure Act applies to all administrative matters and there is no longer the possibility of its subsidiary replacement, this Article of the General Administrative Procedure Act is prescribed to apply the administrative procedure itself." In all 3 of these laws, the need to adopt an emergency procedure is the reasons since the harmonisation of the provisions of the special law with the Administrative Procedure Act is one of the criteria for the closure of Chapter 23. – Justice and fundamental rights, in the process of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. So, since we are, here I would say, coming to the end of the road then the HDZ Club will accept these amendments and the additions of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73471	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73472	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support all four Proposals of the Laws that are before us today, it is about laws which, by word and substance, agree with certain provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Substantial coordination shall be carried out through appropriate amendments and the substantive harmonisation of certain legal provisions which require the resolution of the administrative procedure and the way in which the procedures and deadlines are implemented with the relevant provisions of the ZUP. In its conclusion of 6 October 2010, the Government of the Republic of Croatia commissioned the authorities of the State Administration to make proposals for amending and supplementing the laws and administrative areas in their jurisdiction in order to comply with the provisions of the ZUP, which the Ministry here is present and has done in all these segments. Given that the two laws concern the issue of railways, I would only briefly remind myself on behalf of the HSS Club of a representative of a general knowledge, but we may often forget this, and the fact is that of all modes of transport, rail transport is the most environmentally acceptable form of transport that is sustainable on a long period of time and in order to encourage citizens to use rail transport more safely is necessary to improve the quality of transport service to the part relating to comfort and hygiene, but also when it comes to environmental impact and, of course, in terms of the safety of transport itself. I would like to remind you that the energy consumption per unit of work in passenger rail transport is three and a half times lower and in rail freight transport freight is 8.7 times lower than in these activities as part of road transport. The railway also significantly relieves roads, preserves nature and, of course, those non-renewable natural resources from destruction, and reduces the number of traffic accidents and environmental disasters. The railway is a sustainable form of transport because it respects both man and nature and in order for the railways to return that title it has long worn is certainly the safest carrier not only the laws for which we Assembly representatives are in charge here, there is important and greater investment in infrastructure and, of course, it is also a crucial and human factor. When it comes to the Law on Wires, the law may be discussed here in the Croatian Parliament. For this reason, I would like to remind myself that it is the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure that has jurisdiction over the implementation of the Law on Wires, the transport of persons and, of course, a series of sublegal acts. Each cableway must have a valid approval under Article 37 and a concession acquired by the right to operate a cableway which includes the right to use an economic cableway, each cable manager must also obtain a concession for the right to build a cableway before the construction of a new cableway. For those concessions, the concession provider is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, keeps records of the cableways, and according to this record it is evident that there are 18 cableways in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Since one part of them is also located in protected areas and is in the area where they spread and forests, in an area which can certainly be an eye that is pleasant and beautiful for me here at the Club of Representatives of HSS we want to remind ourselves of the possible use of these cableways for tourist purposes, as an integral part of the tourist offer, it can be extremely interesting, therefore it is very important that all these lifts meet the legal requirements and that they are put into service as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73473	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73474	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, gentlemen of the motion. Proposal for a law amending the law on safety in rail transport. We witness the uncertainty of rail transport, we witness frequent train accidents in which tragic fates and personnel are but also passengers in the railways. The trial is under way in connection with the responsibility of the train accident in the Rudins, then recently there was a train accident in the Gorski Kotar, due to the collapse or devastation, will be determined, it looks like a wall collapse. We remember 74 years ago when 153 people died at the Zagreb station after the rapid train took off in Zagreb railway station. Therefore, it is clear that these are laws that are only administrative alignment with the Law on Administrative Procedure but it is impossible not to mention these things that are happening and that are current on the Croatian railways. In addition, the railway is also burdened with how we read from the media, but from certain investigations conducted by the competent institutions and authorities of the Republic of Croatia, subject to numerous corruption affairs. Shopping, retarded retards, buying machines for ticket sales that have never been installed on railway stations, our station in Slavonia from Maria Teresa and Franje Josipa are the ideal place to shoot Western films as the last train to Santa Fe. Pruga Vinkovci-Slavonski Brod-Zagreb, which is being traveled today, by any train to sit on Slavonski Brod, you cannot be in Zagreb until 3 hours. Once on that track, there was a train called Sava Express that arrived between Zagreb and Belgrade in less than four hours. ... the railways are gone, the railway Sirac-Daruvar no longer exists, the Našice-Peternica railway line is gone and the 5C railway Osijek-Jakovo-Sl. Šamac continues also does not, corridor Pan-European 10, so in one abandoned state with two tracks to Novska from the east, and then only one towards Zagreb, the other goes through Sisak. From Djakova twice a day you can take a passenger train to come to the 10th Pan-European corridor towards Zagreb or towards the east without speaking where. So, instead of discussing the safety of investment in rail transport here we have the Law on Safety in Railway Traffic actually such an administrative... measure of two pages, two articles that change and comply with the Law on Administrative Procedure. As far as these other legal proposals are concerned, it is clear that cableways and cableways are very convenient to ask the gentleman how many cablemen we have, where they are located and how they are used, how much use is there, how many white-haired sportsmen are not here, how used these cablers are, how much promotion or anything that the Croatian government and authorities can do in the tourism of the Republic of Croatia, that this white-haired and these cablers are alive. The other day I was in Slavonski Šamac, so one of them told me not to invest much in continental tourism, because in Slavonia and Baranja there is an advanced very modern type of tourism, which is nudism. There walk all naked and barefoot, and then there is no need to invest in continental tourism anymore, and the cablers include as much as I know and part of continental tourism. As for the Croatian Post Office, what is left of the Croatian Post Office? Telekom has been sold, private companies have also been awarded a concession for postal services, now I will not speak without advertising certain private companies and what is left of Croatia's post office and business? But here is the Law on Postal Services with the final bill, and it is clearly similar to administration in legislation, so clearly there is no God knows what to discuss or not to accept. All in all, I think that these topics that have come to the agenda, as Mrs. Hursa said by the government's October 6th decree comes after that deadline that the government has set, which is 6 months to bring all of this into line with the Law on Administrative Procedure of the ZPU, and that deadline has been exceeded, which is all too expensive to say that we don't know whether our railroad or our government is slower. When we're talking about just accepting these legal proposals, given what I've said and some other things I have. In fact, it is a matter of acknowledging it or not to give a road lobby in relation to the railways in which the Croatian State and the decision of the Croatian Parliament and the Government invests billions of kuna, clearly and loudly it must be said that it is still working against rail development and rail infrastructure and transport in the Republic of Croatia. Take a look at the train schedule at the Zagreb station.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73475	Your Honor, this is not a topic of the agenda. No, it's not a railroad topic. ... Please don't do this. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] You're talking about a subject that's on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73476	I'm telling you about it, the subject is all this together. There are 4 points in this part of it that are all expensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73477	You need to talk about those provisions. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73478	Well, you can't determine what I'm going to say, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's not you who determine what I'm going to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73479	Your Honor, you cannot speak. ... The Honorable representative of the agenda determines what you will say. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] The agenda, not me. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73480	No train passes from eastern Croatia to Zagreb railway station is in line with the timetable for Rijeka or Split, but it is 15 minutes late, half an hour in the timetable. And people wait six hours for the second train. Did you know about that? Because information from the railway workers who said and noticed it. Therefore, precisely because of Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament's behaviour and because of what he says is wrong, these are issues that the Croatian State and this Assembly need to edit and what they need to talk about, rather than administrative measures, whether it is in the Administrative Procedure Act or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73481	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73482	Let me finish. That's why we won't be able to adopt such legal proposals right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73483	Thank you very much. And it is not good for you to do what you do. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73484	Oh, there's a colleague who's really gone a long way, but one thing I have to fix. Namely, he mentioned that the purchased appliances were uninstalled for the automatic purchase of tickets at the station, which is not true. Namely, devices were purchased for electronic charge to conductors somewhere worth 4m euros during the coalition there... Slavko Linić, who stands and today is unused and for whom no one asks why they were thrown and that inadequate trains for these railways are also obtained, too expensive and much of this debate should be clarified and I think that the time will come...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73485	Thank you very much. This will end the morning session now. Continuation is at 3:00. The first in line is Honorable Representative Milivo Schwartz. Thank you very much. We'll continue the afternoon session. We're moving on to an individual debate as I have announced, and it's time for a distinguished representative of Milivo Schwartz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73487	Dear Vice President, the esteemed secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. There are four proposals for the Law amending the laws of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, which are the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Safety of Railway Traffic, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Agency for the Regulation of the Markets of Railway Services, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Wires for the Transport of Persons and the Proposal for a Law on Postal Services with the Final Proposal for a Law. As a rule, the proposed laws are mostly for reasons of compliance with the Administrative Procedure Act. In particular, in the case of the Railway Safety Act, the objective of the adoption of this Act was to regulate the conditions for the safe operation of rail transport, in addition to the safe operation of rail transport, to monitor and connect it with the European environment. The role of Croatia in European and world transport flows is not small, this Law then implemented two Directives on rail safety as well as Directives on the interoperability of the high-speed railway system and conventional railways. Today, these amendments to the Railway Safety Act are only in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act. These amendments and additions to the Law will resolve the disagreements which in certain provisions this Law had with the general administrative procedure. The Agency for the Regulatory of the Railway Markets, given that certain procedures carried out under its jurisdiction by the Railway Regulation Agency are subject to the provisions of the ZUP and should be subject to these amendments. It is about terms and content of harmonisation and the erasure of certain provisions of a specific law which would be contrary to this general administrative procedure law. The Agency shall take into account the activities of the Agency relating to the resolution of complaints from railway undertakings, decisions of the infrastructure manager will be subject to the provisions of the ZUP and no appeal shall be allowed against the solution taken by the Agency in those proceedings but an administrative dispute may be initiated. The court is obliged to settle an administrative dispute on the case no later than 6 months after the date of the appeal. It is therefore a matter of compliance with the provisions of the ZUP which prescribes the right of the party to a legal remedy, which has not been the case so far. Such a similar situation in compliance with the Law on Administrative Procedure is also the case with the Law on Postage Services. I will use this railway only in two sentences at the end in order to ask and expect that the Ministry of State-led Secretary-General will do everything in order to make investments in railways provided for in Krapina-Zagorje County uninterrupted and I will mention, in particular, a major investment, which is a plan for the reconstruction of the railway to God or electrification, and I must also mention the revitalisation of the railway towards Kumrovec and towards Zagorje villages and the border crossing. And I ask that everything be done in order for the situation that is happening to us at the moment, and this is a major change in the price for the transport of replacements along the Kumrovečka railway to sort of look at the situation, it will consider and eventually solve the situation in a way that has returned to the situation as it was. I'm going to support the proposal of all these four laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73488	Thank you. It is next to the honourable representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73489	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will give one brief support to these little short changes but they are very important, not only to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act but also because of their importance. Therefore, although there are four legislative amendments to the safety of rail transport, cableways, the Railway Market Regulatory Agency, and postal services, in a way I would separate them in the first two and second two purposes, the rail transport and cableways are almost the same changes, that the relevant inspector, in exceptional cases the oral decision, adopts the necessary prohibitions and other measures and, of course, the managers and other legal persons are obliged to act on the solutions of the relevant inspector and within the time limit set out in that decision. For better safe work and for greater security especially of the person that it is significant. Well, maybe I should just point out here when it comes to the change in postal services, it's also like I said about harmonisation, but it says here that the Council of the Agency decides by majority vote, that no appeal is allowed but that it can go to an administrative dispute. There is also a deadline for execution and, in the event of failure, an inspector may file an indictment for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure, so all in the sense of being more effective and not only in the law, he will do so, and what if he does not do and here it is said that he can then commit an infringement procedure and that is why it is very important to function. It also says here that the appeal of the inspector's solution goes to a certain committee, three members and can also be countered by the supervisor's solution can be made to the Agency's Board of Appeal. I repeat again about the tiny little changes, and very important and important in the functioning and I support all these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73490	Thank you. And it's time for Mr. Holly's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73491	Thank you, Vice President. I will look back at two bill proposals in my discussions. This is the proposal for a law amending the Railway Safety Act and the second law is a draft law amending the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Railway Markets and I would like to say that I will support all four laws that we are now having a united discussion. When we talk about this final proposal on amendments to the Law on Railway Safety, I think it is also necessary to take into account the recent incident at Tunela Tuhovic, which, unfortunately, is lost and human life, I would like to draw attention to the dangers arising from the proposal of the Railway Safety Act, which concerns Article 2, which is in fact an amendment to Article 87 of the applicable law, and according to which the inspector can adopt the solution orally. From the beginning, the railway system has been issued with only written orders, and the procedure is such that the driver or the person to whom the order has been given is obliged to read it aloud in front of the person who gave the order so that they both know that the order is read and understood in the right sense of that word. If the train was released on the track at Tunela Tuhovic was sent orally and not written, it would have been the driver's fault for the accident, and this is the written trail before the process analysis could be considered as the guilty transporter who wrote the order, and the eased circumstance is also the tone record of the dispatcher's order of the infrastructure which he approved to send the train on the track according to the article of the law that prescribes the procedure of train traffic when the signal is incorrect. The more difficult situation is that they haven't checked the track condition and why the signal went down. Without a written warrant, it would be the engineer who passed the signal that showed the signal stop and caused the accident. It is also... that it has not been amended by this draft law, Article 198. The law on the safety of rail transport, which states that the maximum permissible speed of trains driving in a station space due to failure or disengagement of an SS device shall not exceed 100 km/s. The 8th or 8th indent is a direct culprit to why there was an accident in Tunel Tuhovic. The transporter put the train on the track according to this article, so the train could drive at the maximum speed for freight trains and unfortunately could not stop in time. If this article was prescribed that due to an extraordinary event or failure of the signal signal, it was written that the maximum speed was 30 or 40km/s, then the driver could spot the sounding and stop the train in time. The same thing is with Article 51, which speaks of that every train must be signalled by a correct frontal and final signal, and the problem is that when marking the end of the train is a marking at night a metal plate that does not shine so that the end of the train cannot be seen on the rail or on the station, I would like to stress that small cells are not all over the length of the light, and the end of the train is almost always at the end of the cell track near the turns. By entering the station, the train manager observes signal signs showing him the position of the turning point to determine whether he is going on a busy or free track, or the track plan. In any anomaly he must stop the train so it is important to spot the end of the train in time because the stop routes for freight trains between 300 and 700 m. In order to be able to spot the end of the train at night by the train must be lit up. This was the case during the steam draw, and after the train accident in Zagreb, mentioned by his colleague Grubisic in his presentation on behalf of the club, they obtained a flashlight-lighting final signal for which the locomotive was in charge. The signal of the maneuver was placed at the end of the train and upon completion of the train, the signal lamp returns to the locomotive. The signal device was turned on at night and signaled the end of the train with flashing red light so that it differed from stable light signals and the system worked until the beginning of the war when the lamps were unfortunately stolen. When it comes to the draft law amending the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Market in Railway Services, I would like to refer to these articles of the law that are being amended, which are Articles 6 and 7. However, those provisions which are not amended by this proposal which may have been amended. In accordance with Article 6(2) of the law, supervision of the negotiations of the infrastructure manager and the railway undertaking on the level of the rail infrastructure fee, it can be concluded that the Agency shall monitor the negotiations between the infrastructure manager and the railway undertaking each, and not with all those using that infrastructure, which may be favourable to the individual carrier with the Agency’s permission and thus may be granted to HZ in relation to another railway undertaking. When we talk about Article 6(4), which also does not change, which speaks of giving prior consent to the appointment and resolution of the members of the management body of the infrastructure manager, we can say that it is with certain interference in human resources rather than in the success of the activities. Now, the situation is that in all parts of HZ, as well as infrastructure, the same people are moving on the principle that if someone does something stupid in HZ goes to the ministry, and now it's possible to go to the agency, and in the same way only the people in the ministry in HZ or the agency circulate. This article may make it possible for the Agency to keep quiet that people will be placed in individual infrastructure jobs and must not be forgotten that more candidates or candidates will always appear for the same jobs. Where we talk about the activities of the Agency or of Article 7(1), the Agency shall be empowered to order participants in the railway market to comply with the rules laid down by this law and other regulations governing the provision of rail services in order to ensure their impartial application. I think this is a rather unusual provision of law because this article can conclude that not everyone has to act under this law but only if the agency orders it. Here it is, I would just look back on it and I think that it is in principle necessary for both law to go a little more detailedly to the amendments to these drafts of the law, so I ask the honourable representatives and representatives of the ministry to pay attention to this because these remarks come from professional circles and in any case think about these laws being corrected in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73492	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the word final? Yeah. Dear Daniel Mileta, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73493	Thank you very much. I'll try for a while. In principle, there were a lot of words here about the Law on Safety in Railway Traffic, but perhaps not excessively related to the ZUP. The fact is that whatever law you make, whatever law you write, is always unfortunately found by someone who doesn't comply with the law, who doesn't follow the rules, and then there are accidents and accidents. It's not about the law. It's about not keeping the law. If the law didn't exist, there'd be more. The law is living matter, it develops, it advances, specifically with us at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure we implement the emulsion of European guidelines, directives, the experience and practice that exists within Croatia, whether it is about railways, whether it is about mail and so on. So, other than the law, there are rules that very much, and especially when we talk about rail transport, define certain safety aspects. What I can answer specifically to you, namely the esteemed MP Mirela Holy, is: as far as Article 87 is concerned by the oral order, this article is actually about the inspector, that he can react immediately on the spot, that something that is not in accordance with the regulations can stop immediately, and is not related to the situation that the person who regulates the traffic tells the train that he can go without written approval. So this is about the inspection that can respond immediately to irregularities, not to those who participate in traffic every day to tell you no matter what. The Agency is suspected of being able to benefit from a specific article in talks and negotiations between infrastructure manager and carrier, so the agency is just as well imagined as a body to look after competition rather than promote it. I wish if I could get that letter of yours, I couldn't catch everything you said, but if I can get in writing what you have, so if there's any doubt we'll gladly do it in the next situations and correct it, but this way at the first ball I can't see it. As for the circulation of people around the ministry, the agency, so it makes sense that if someone works in a branch, in a sector that it is one, Croatia is not too big a country, it is a circle of people who know matter best and it is logical then to rotate on a concrete railway, by the agency, by the ministry. So right now they have nowhere else in Croatia to get a job. It's some kind of decision now, it's not just that specific to the railways, it's the specificity of the other branch and the air sector and them. That would be my comments briefly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73494	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73495	The final proposal of the Law amending the Railway Safety Act is an emergency procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Railway Safety. Please let us vote. The result? With 92 votes in favour, 3 abstentions were passed by the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73589	We move to the 7th item of the agenda, which is - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on forest reproductive material, with the final proposal of law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 774 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Herman Sušnik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73590	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Parliamentarians and colleagues. Here's a very short word I'm going to say about the amendments and the additions to this law. So there is a proposal before you to amend and supplement the Law on forest reproductive material. The amendment of the law concerns the obligation to adopt and bring all laws in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act. The amendment of the law covers three articles of the existing law. A new way of resolving complaints against the solution of a phytosanitary inspector, as well as against a forest inspector, is proposed, the way in which the Board of Appeals is formed, the composition of the committees, as well as the period to which they are appointed. It was previously prescribed that a special commission which resolves complaints against the inspector's solution be appointed a minister. This law was passed in 2009, so it's called the Law on forest reproductive material. It is fully in line with the meaning of it by belonging to sublegal acts with the European Commission's directives. This is primarily Directive 105/1999, as well as other EU acquiss. The Committee on Legislatives has given two amendments, and they refer to nomotechnical harmonisation, meaning grooming of expressions. The first amendment to Article 1 in Article 1(3) of the introductory wording ‘Articles 12 to 16’. shall be replaced by the words ‘Article 12, paragraphs 13, 14, 15 and 16’. and in paragraph 4, the word "new" is deleted. The second amendment to Article 3, in Article 3(2) of the introductory wording, "new" is deleted. Since this is a nomotechnic arrangement, we accept one and the other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73591	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73592	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Pension Party will support this bill. This is one technical alignment with the General Administrative Procedure Act as well as a whole series of other laws we have been discussing in the past three weeks, and this law is visible, and it is seen that thanks to the overall overall process in the closure of Chapter 23, we are introducing order in our legislation and introducing one transparency that we need extremely, and this amendment of the law specifically in the Law on forest reproductive material ensures this transparency in the implementation of the law. We will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73593	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73594	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director. Here, surely we will support the amendments and additions to the Law on Forest Seeds and Fruit Material because it is more technical, but what is significant is why this other thing was waiting for harmonisation, I think only these 3, 4 articles could have been solved far earlier. What is also important is whether compliance is also with the Law on Administrative Procedure but also with the Law on Forests why no correction has been made, that is one thing. And secondly, as two years ago, when we adopted this Law on Forest Seeds and Fruit Material, we supported it precisely because it was high quality and consistent with the European Union and made it possible for some other things, i.e. far better development of forest deforestation and wastelanding in terms of the production of quality seedlings. But the Law on the Forests has been for 6 years, we are not satisfied with it, we consider that certain things have changed in the Law on Forests, and that is primarily the ratio of ownership to state and private ownership of forests, and that the amendment of the Law on Forests must be done as soon as possible, not only the restructuring of Croatian forests and the possibility of quality of application and of this Law but also more quality then management in forests generally means both private forest owners and the state as the owner of forests, i.e. its companies in the Croatian Forests. It also raises the question of what is the area for biomass whether or not they should have been, that is, those areas that are going to be through forest seedlings tomorrow, whether through some other species, they are going to be used for the production of biomass as far as biomass is concerned, how much they will be able to comply with the forest seed law and forest fruit material, and for sure that there is a question of what is with agricultural state land, which is not only classical agricultural land, but most of it has grown in forest trees, which someone would like to say to the schizars, but I will say again that this is the initial phase of the forest. What is with these areas, in which they are used, is that on those areas which were usually pasture, they have now moved to forests where unfortunately, in terms of renting agricultural land, actions are done which are not appropriate or are not in conformity with the Law on Forests or the Law on Agricultural Land, because the first and basic principle of introduction into possession is not introduced in such a way that the right situation should be established, that it is said to be a forest and that it is then subject to the Law on Forests and not that these landowners use that mass in some way for unfair wealth and in some way to pay rent on agricultural land. We therefore believe that, in terms of restructuring of total forestry, it is necessary to adopt a new forest law, which will then be in a way consistent with this forest seed law and fruit material and thus improve the state of forests and forest land in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73595	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73596	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a few words, since that's already said enough, so on the bill of amendments and additions to the Law on forest reproductive material. We know that the Law on forest reproductive material was passed back in 2005 and has been positively affected by the regulation of production forest reproductive material in the Republic of Croatia. The same law lays the basis for equating with the criteria of foreign markets above all in the European Union. Meanwhile, in the European Union, it adopts new regulations regulating this area further, facilitates the supervision of production and placing on the market of certain categories of forest reproductive material but also opens up the possibility of plating forest reproductive material on the European Union market from non-member countries of the European Union. Therefore, a new Law on forest reproductive material was adopted in 2009. The new Law regulates the tasks and relations between participants involved in the production, placing on the market, import and use of forest reproductive material and creates the necessary preconditions for the smooth trade in forest reproductive material on the European Union market. This Law also protects... our forests because it prevents the introduction of unautochthonous and genetically inappropriate reproductive material into our forests, this law and its sublaws have fully adopted the provisions of the Directive and other legal property of the European Union, which regulates this area and fully harmonises the legislation. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forest Reproductive Material, which is before us, regulates that the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act apply, acting in accordance with the provisions of the Law on General Administrative Procedure, in order to comply with the negotiating chapter of the 23rd Justice and Fundamental Rights and thereby implement the prevention of corruption, in particular in the activities and work of the national authorities. Therefore, the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on forest reproductive material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73597	Thank you. I am closing the debate and we will vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73598	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on forest reproductive material, emergency procedure. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment committees and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on forest reproductive material. Please let us vote. The result? 98 for, 1 abstention – this law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73599	We will now skip points 8 and 9, so I would recommend that if possible, the Committee discusses this issue as soon as possible and delivers its opinion to the Assembly so that we can discuss these two points. We're going to point 10. This is - Final proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on cooperation in order to strengthen energy security, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 787. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivan Bubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73600	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and representatives, ladies and gentlemen. This law confirms the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Hungary on Cooperation in order to strengthen the security of electricity supply signed by two prime ministers in Zagreb on 8 February 2011 in a source in Croatian and Hungarian. The Agreement and the result of a joint desire to further promote and deepen mutual cooperation and mutual assistance in order to prevent or eliminate potential crisis situations in energy supply. This is also a roof agreement covering a series of agreements on certain elements of security of supply and opening up the possibility of mutual storage of mandatory oil and oil products, joint research and exploitation of carbon bearings along the common state border, construction, use, maintenance of reconstruction and removal of power lines and pipelines that cross the common state border as well as access to energy infrastructure and storage facilities in crisis situations. The agreement is also in the spirit of the Directive of the European Union which requires the development of a national institutional and legislative framework relating to energy security issues, and encourages the co-operation of neighbouring countries as well as regional co-operation in joint action to prevent and eliminate energy supply disturbances. The signing of the agreement under this Act exchanged the letter of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Hungary drawn up in Budapest on 8 February 2011 and the letter of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration of the Republic of Croatia drawn up in Zagreb on 8 February 2011. These letters confirm the will to ensure the conditions for the implementation of the agreement in the two countries' national legislation. The agreement also provides for the development of a joint intervention plan under conditions of energy supply disturbances, i.e. in crisis situations. In the relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary, this Agreement constitutes an element of further improvement and deepening of mutual cooperation between the States and contributes to the continuation of consolidation and development of friendship between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary. I therefore propose the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73601	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club, distinguished representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73602	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Here's a few words about one bill. Therefore, between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary and where it is indeed visible that these two countries have an extremely good cooperation in energy above all, and I am sure that time is moving away that this agreement, or that cooperation, will be far greater and better in any other sense. But we're talking about energy today. Of course, we aim to develop good neighbourly, economic relations with the government of the Republic of Hungary and to make this level of trade between the two countries far higher than it is today. Certainly here this agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary is the result of a joint desire to further promote and deepen joint cooperation and mutually provide assistance in the area of security of energy supply by two neighbouring countries. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary on cooperation in order to strengthen energy security creates assumptions for the further activities of the two neighbouring countries in this area. This area includes the mutual storage of mandatory oil and petroleum products, joint research and exploitation of hydrocarbon bearings along the common state border. Cooperation is also extended to the construction, use, maintenance and reconstruction of power lines and pipelines crossing the common state border and access to energy infrastructure and storage facilities in crisis situations. There is the interest of the Republic of Croatia to complete all necessary procedures for the entry into force of the Agreement as soon as possible, and thus to create formal legal conditions for the effective implementation of the Agreement and thus to propose this Agreement by an urgent procedure. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say a few words about capital investment what we have done so far and what it has been built in this cooperation between our two countries. Two hundred kilovolts of Ernestinovo - Pechuh finished. The current will be released in April due to technical examination in the Croatian part of Croatia for the first time today, and regular work by power lines will be released in April. The construction of a new double four hundred kilovolt power line has been completed that will connect Croatia and Hungary on the Ernestinovo-Pecuh route, and the current will be released in April for the first time in the Croatian part. In the construction of that 86.4 km long power line 44.1 km is in Croatia. Large portable power 2200 megawatts in summer, and 2600 megawatts in winter. Croatia's electricity industry and their Hungarian partners invested 39.5m euros with 159m kuna on the Croatian side, of course we received data in Croatia's electricity industry. The electricity highway between Croatia and Hungary will bring numerous major benefits, will primarily increase the security of electricity supply, especially in the northeastern part of Croatia, as the trafostation in Ernestinovo is the main power point of that part of Croatia, it is also given additional power supply direction on the fourth side of Hungary, along with the rest of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Serbia, as well as data from Croatia's electricity industry. At the same time, the possibility of major disturbances in the operation of both countries' electricity systems will be reduced and the capacity to re-establish them will be improved, the expected amount of unsupervised energy will be reduced, reducing the costs of the system and increasing the reliability of the drive. That is why it is no wonder that the importance of building such infrastructure facilities for the transfer of energy is highlighted, and at the energy summit in Budapest, which was also attended by Croatian Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. The preparation of activities for the construction of power lines lasted 10 years, which is also common during the preparation of such complex projects in Europe and the world. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary, all in order to strengthen security of electricity supply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73603	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, HSU, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73604	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Hungary on cooperation in order to strengthen the security of energy supply is, this bill is of formal nature because we confirm either what is already signed and what is definitely necessary, useful, and not only with Hungary, but also with all neighbours, because this is the basis or basis for all other necessary individual contracts in certain areas, as is the case with this bill, and there is no reason why this agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Hungary will not be supported, and we in the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retirement will support this bill. It is certainly useful for us, however, to ask the question of how much we have qualified our systems to be the subject of cooperation, because the basis of this agreement and mutual communication, and the possible mutual benefit definitely depends on the skills on one or the other side of the border with infrastructure facilities, in certain areas, when we talk about energy and which are mentioned here. It is absolutely certain that everything we have heard from colleagues on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, which has been done is part of something that, which is why people in electricity and paid for, were eventually to do so, and there is more to be asked why it has not already been done, because the fact that when we talk about electricity supply, our economy pays the most expensive electricity in Europe. Which is a serious problem for the development of our economy, one serious problem, and something that we will, which any responsible state in one of the first measures, would take, is that the economy, especially the export economy, will provide cheaper electricity. Whether this agreement is the basis, perhaps it is, perhaps not, but in any case, the problem is, for our economy, I repeat, the particularly export economy suffers special damage due to unharmonised, inefficient and monetary policies, as well as fiscal ones. Secondly, if we had had had this agreement that we had made some infrastructure facilities that we should have done long ago, certainly our economy would not have suffered the damage suffered by the gas crisis, almost certainly, the damage is huge, therefore it is one of the reasons that points to the need for a timely reaction precisely in creating conditions, stable conditions, above all for those who create a new value and in this country, if necessary, it needs a new value in terms of development, because we have already eaten a lot of it, with consumption instead of directing or supporting those who create a new value. And in conclusion, there is really no reason not to support this agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary, with the emphasis on the need for changes in access and capacity-lifting, which will allow us to raise the total benefit of this agreement in ours, above all.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73605	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. We have a registered representative, a distinguished representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73606	Thank you, Vice President. Well, honestly, after reading this bill, which confirms this agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Hungary on cooperation in order to strengthen energy security, I am not sure whether or not I should support this document. When reading this way in the assessment of the situation and everything sounds good, however, when I read the text of the agreement itself, or its translation, I must stress that it has been written to me so complicatedly and in some cumbersome language that a whole series of issues remain open to me, in fact, about this agreement, and what it means specifically for the Republic of Croatia, and what we are actually going to need to do about this, and what we are committed to in particular. In fact, we are all very well aware that our largest oil company is INA, which is partly state-owned and in great cooperation, i.e. in co-ownership with MOL, which is a Hungarian oil company, and that the whole agreement should probably be seen through the prism of this relationship that already exists between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary. In particular, Article 2(6) and Article 3(2) are unclear to me, so I would ask the distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Economy if they are able to explain what this means at all. So I'll read, Article 2. Article 6 of the Agreement states that the Contracting Parties confirm that it is of paramount importance that in cases of crisis situations in energy supply, there are developed cooperation frameworks in the area of the creation and use of mandatory oil and oil derivatives and natural gas and that, acting in the spirit of solidarity, it is ensured by non-discriminatory access to the pipelines for the transport of hydrocarbons and to their associated storage facilities, in principle, of the most favourable use. I would really ask that it be translated into a healthy rational language by representatives and advocates who may not be so legally under overly well - meaning because I do not know what is specifically derived from this provision. And Article 3 that is even more controversial to me, paragraph 2. – Contracting Parties will mutually ensure the possibility of two-way transport in oil pipelines and the possibility of using storage facilities that are connected to pipelines, in particular in order to ensure the smooth supply of oil refinery by contracting parties and oil refineries in the region. This obligation of the parties concerns non-contractual capacity and capacity related to existing contracts which are not actually used and in accordance with national legislation. So we see here that this mutually ensures the possibility of two-way transport in oil pipelines. And it is well known that the existing pipeline, the Janaf pipeline in the Republic of Croatia is not a two-way pipeline, i.e. it is one-way pipeline and that the project "Adria Company" that the pipeline was supposed to become two-way pipeline has not been revived, and it does not seem to live. So I ask you to give us an explanation of what this particular provision is, in fact, bound by the Republic of Croatia, because I really can't really see what it really means. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73607	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? It's over. The debate is over. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the final word? Yeah. Dear Ivan Bubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73608	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will briefly answer your second question first at paragraph 3 of Act 2. In fact, free capacity and contracted... which are not used are made available. And this first Article 2 paragraph 6 is replaced by the following: – it is intended to apply market conditions in the event of a disturbance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73609	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73610	Final proposal of the Act on the confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on Cooperation with a view to strengthening energy security. I am putting the proposed law to the vote. Please let us vote. The result? With 94 votes for and 2 abstentions passed the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73611	We'll skip point 11 because we don't have a proposing here, a proposing representative. Moving to point 12. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 803 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Krešimir Rogman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73612	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. First I have to say what is unpopular, these are the 13th amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, which is of course not the most expensive of all, but simply in those 13 we had to propose only to bring the Pension Insurance Act in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Therefore, what we had to do after the adoption of the Law on General Administrative Procedure and the basis of the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 6 October 2010 which was ordered by the central authorities of the State Administration to draw up proposals for amending and supplementing all the laws of the administrative area within the scope of their division in order to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Therefore, these proposed amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act are in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and thus are met in this segment of our criterion, the measures set out by the European Commission in the provisional report in Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights. I note that when the Ministry of Administration requested compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, it indicated for all the laws, therefore, categories of articles of individual laws which were not harmonised. In several of these categories, therefore provisions which do not comply with the basis of the ZUP provisions, we had two such articles, 117 and 119 which are being amended. Then the provisions contrary to the purpose of the ZUP, there were no such provisions in retirement. Then the provisions which were different from those provided for in the ZUP were Articles 105 to 126a, so the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act relating to procedures. Then the provisions governing the procedure in the same way as in the ZUP or prescribed by the ZUP, so there were no such provisions in the Pension Insurance Act. Finally, the provisions authorising the authority of the state administration to settle procedural matters under the regulations. We only had two articles marked, but that shouldn't have changed. In this context, and in order to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act, the following amendments are proposed: to bring local competences into line in a way that determines, primarily, the local jurisdiction towards the residence of the insurance undertaking, or the residence of the insurance undertaking, which is subject to other criteria – that a clearer procedure for the exercise of the right to be exercised on the basis of disability under official duty is regulated. Therefore, the procedure under official duty shall be initiated by means of a proposal to initiate the prohibition of a doctor of primary medical care. Furthermore, so far, the provisions on the finality of the decision on administrative procedure agree with the ZUP in a way that is now the enforcement of the solution in the administrative procedure. In addition, the deadline for the adoption of a pension insurance law solution shall be determined by applying an international contract of 60 days starting from the receipt of the complete data necessary to complete the procedure by the foreign insurance institution, namely, that information shall be obtained from the foreign service until such data can be fully completed. Finally, advertising the solution of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute with zero cancellation or cancellation in cases and subject to the conditions prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act. In addition, an exemption is proposed from the general administrative procedure law but the exemption which is in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of November 2010 which, in accordance with international regulations and is the case, would be rejected under the General Administrative Procedure Act when it comes to the initiation of the procedure and the person is abroad that the person should have appointed authority in Croatia otherwise, it is proposed that this should not be done otherwise by someone who remains without the rights that they exercise abroad and should exercise the right to pension insurance in Croatia. Therefore, such provisions would not, in the view of the Constitutional Court, be in line with the Constitution if they had to have authority and not to international regulations, therefore, it is extremely appropriate from the administrative procedure here to propose a different solution and finally to say, there is a question of compliance of the second degree in the pension procedure whether this should change that second degree, as you know, is being carried out in the Pensions Office as well as in the first instance. The Ministry of Administration has proposed that all bodies that have a second stage resolved in this way, so within the same body, regardless of being a regional service or a centre but within the same legal person, that the second stage should be done by a special commission appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, let's say a three-member commission. After a detailed analysis of the possibilities, and with the agreement of the Ministry of Administration, it is agreed that pension insurance should not establish such a special commission for several reasons, for the practical reasons of a huge number of cases in relation to other bodies, there are about 30,000 secondary solutions including disability commissions, a significant number of people working there cannot do one commission of several people, and of the fact that such a solution exists in several European Union countries, where their institutions or relevant bodies solve the first and second stages, and until when this Law, when the harmonisation of Chapter 19 is resolved, where this Law includes the Commission had no objections. Therefore, in agreement with the Ministry of Administration, an existing second-degree solution was left so that the Pensions Institute was doing the first degree in the field service and the second stage in the central service. The above proposal amending and supplementing the Law on Pension Insurance will comply with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, or the manner in which this Law is provided for in that Act, except in that part, which I mentioned as regards the placing of the authorising officer in cases where the person who initiates the procedure is not in Croatia and in this second section of the Board of Appeal which would then not be resolved through that Board of Appeal but as it has been so far by the Central Service of the Pensions Office. Of course, we suggest that the law be adopted and adopted in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73613	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73614	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act were first and foremost proposed to comply with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act as well as to comply with the measures set out by the European Commission in the provisional report of Chapter 23 of the Justice and Fundamental Rights Act. The main issues covered by the proposed Law were, as the State Secretary already spoke of them, local jurisdiction, i.e. the exercise of pension insurance rights which will be determined primarily towards the residence or residence of the insurance undertaking and only subsidised to other criteria, and this will be a much more effective approach to pension insurance rights. Until now, the responsibility has been at the site of the last insurance and residence. A clearer regulation of the initiation of the procedure for the exercise of the right on the basis of disability under official duty is the procedure under official duty of the motion to initiate and prohibit the doctor of primary health care medicine. Then, the release of the party in the procedure abroad from the obligation to appoint the authority for the use of letters in the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the principle position of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and the provisions of the International Social Insurance Treaty as well as the regulatory European Union. The requirements shall be completed and processed in the country where the applicant is located and the authorities of the Contracting States shall be obliged to provide administrative and other assistance to each other. The provisions so far on the finality of the decision on administrative procedure are in line with the Administrative Procedure Act, meaning the enforcement of the solution in the administrative procedure. Determination of the time limit for the adoption of a pension insurance law solution by applying international social insurance contracts within 60 days of the receipt by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office of the complete information necessary to complete the procedure by the competent foreign insurance provider. Afterwards, advertising of the solution to HZZO in vain, cancellation or withdrawal in cases subject to the conditions laid down by the General Administrative Procedure Act. For the time being, pension insurance will retain existing solutions in the organisation of a first-degree and second-degree procedure within the HZMO, because in the process of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the EU acquis in chapters 19 - Social Policy and Employment and the second freedom of movement of workers. There have been no remarks by the European Commission on the existing solution and these chapters have been successfully closed temporarily. The entry into the existing organisation of the procedure would cause more significant problems in the organisation and normative arrangement as well as unforeseeable costs in the state budget. The quality solution of the two-degree administrative procedure in this support requires careful consideration of the organisation of the procedure for the exercise of the right of pension insurance of EU Member States, and an examination of the organisation of the administrative procedure from the point of view of administrative disputes under the new Law on Administrative Disputes. Following the adoption of this Act, a special administrative procedure governed by the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act will be brought into line with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, or a level playing field as provided for in that Act, except in the section relating to the obligation to separate the second-degree procedure from the HZMO and to establish a Board of Appeal in accordance with those reasons. The HDZ Club proposes that this proposed law be adopted at the Parliament's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73615	Thank you. On behalf of the HSU Club, HNS's esteemed representative, Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73616	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. The act was referred to a parliamentary debate by emergency procedure, so this bill was sent by emergency procedure and I cannot allow esteemed colleagues and colleagues not to ask themselves publicly, and wait, did we not have an amendment to this law in November 2010 and the same in an emergency procedure? And didn't we already know in November 2010 that this law should be brought into line with the Administrative Procedure Act? We didn't. I can't believe we didn't know in November that this law would have to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Therefore, you can assure me that it was not known then and I'm sure it was and I'm sure it was worth one change and the additions to solve both problems. So we have that problem from November last year not well enough solved and we have to have something to do in the Croatian Parliament re-amendment and addition of the Pension Insurance Act by emergency procedure. Of course, the HNS and HSU club will support these changes and complements because they are benign because they are nature to bring these amendments in line with EU directives, but I will certainly take the opportunity today to talk about something else that needs to be done in this Pension Insurance Act or some illogicalities. In particular, it is a lack of logic that we in November 2010 found that workers and workers can work after 65 years, that we further stimulated them to work, because the years after 65 are worth more, so they have a bonus, and at the same time we have the Law on civil servants and tenants who have experienced three changes each more rigorously than Rigid and prohibits any day of work to all civil servants and tenants after 65. Are they citizens of the second row and are they undesirable? Do other rules apply to them? I understand that there is a need to make flow between civil servants and tenants but not in a way that applies specific legal rules to them. Then I wonder, the prime minister says it will be allowed and that other laws allow work until the 70th year for pharmaceuticals, biomedical laboratories, etc. What do I mean by that? I mean, we have a kind of legal mess. For me, the law that we are discussing today as regards insurance, years of retirement, definition of retirement, early retirement is a fundamental law and other laws need to be in line with it. Otherwise, we have people, citizens of Croatia, depending on the activity of different values, and that is unacceptable. If we wanted to, then we could say by this fundamental law what the deviations were. This is what we suggested in the debate, and we said that given women's psychophysical abilities on certain jobs, difficult physical affairs will not experience an age pension but will most likely end up in a disabled pension. So, we've already suggested all of this, but we don't want to when we propose we don't want to listen to it go this way, and we're left with open questions. We have an open question, my dears, and this is about this administrative procedure and it is expected that we will have this increase in complaints because we are going to retire people who have been as citizens employed in the former army for 10.15.20 years. This pension law says their internship is recognised, but they're not recognised for what they've been doing but the coefficient that recognises this pension law is 1, as if they've been working on an average salary for 20 years. Okay, that may be possible for someone who's been at cleaning space and winnings, but for a specialist doctor or a citizen expert, an engineer who worked in the military it's certainly not good because his salary then and his calling must be related to higher incomes. Such a law will certainly and now with these amendments that I welcome, harmonising with the administrative procedure, have a lot of cases where people will very rightly prove themselves and demand to be artificial, although the law does not foresee, but the question is how the Administrative Court will answer that when such a case comes to the Administrative Court where someone asks for an art to prove what kind of affairs he's been working on because it's evidenceable. We have committed in the pension system that the only proof of payment of the contribution forms M4 is more even the work book is no longer evidence but what is paid. And there's no evidence in these people, but to prove it, it's not unproven. And I think we're gonna have a lot of open new cases here. I welcome the fact that this law goes in that direction that they will be able to open those proceedings. It's not a process that's over, it's not a story that's over, there's a lot more people who are going to leave and who are going to retire under such circumstances. Furthermore, through this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, the problem of entering the second pillar for all those who voluntarily entered, and the problem of these 1200 pensioners could also be solved, so all the women who went into retirement are, therefore, the first beneficiaries of the pension from the second pillar. So one way to solve this is by amending and supplementing the Retirement Act, and the other by amending and supplementing this law. So, and it could have been an integral part of these changes and the addition that they wanted, that they were given the right choice at the time of retirement. I responsibly claim that these people were deceived, that they could not count on them to remain in the world of work so briefly that they succumbed to propaganda and that what happened in 2002 said that real wages would grow at least 2% a year and that the total pension benefits from the first and second pillars would be higher than just from the first pillar. And let's not blame it on the pension bonus. A retirement allowance, I'm sure of what I'm saying, I'm sure it's no gift to the pensioners, new pensioners who retired after 1 January 1999, but it was earned and it was established not with the aim of equating old and new pensioners but was introduced to equate new pensioners among themselves. Because every year after retirement after 1999, it meant a bigger accounting period and it meant a smaller pension. So I'm asking, frankly, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, why don't we work it out when we're so often changing the Pension Insurance Act. This will be the 13th amendment to the Pension Insurance Act and they would say, which is too much, too much. After all, I remind myself of only one fact that regarding the resolution of the second pillar users, I had a parliamentary question on November 19th 2009 that the Prime Minister told me among other things that I would know all about it that I had stayed in the coalition, but after that she told me so that I could tell you now that we are working on it. So that's what she said on 19.11.2009, of course we work in haste, we don't set up any new commissions and new commissions, everything we needed was founded and of course we want to make the system as sustainable as possible for the future at the end of all of us, means those people who come to retirement, but certainly taking care of the difficult situation in which many pensioners in Croatia live today. 1200 pensioners from the second pillar, of which only one, only one has a better pension than having stayed in the first pillar, and it only has because she had a manager's contract, because she has the highest pension so that what she gets from the second pillar is über, i.e. is more than the highest pension. So there's only one in a better position, and 1199 is in a very difficult position and these people today don't have a hard time living, they live very hard. They are in one position to be desperate, to simply lose faith, to lose faith in this society and in this country, they call every day when we solve it. We don't have to settle this by this law, the draft law proposed by the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Pensions Party seems to me there in the 59th place that solves this problem. And forgive me, but 4 million kunas as long as it takes for the second half of the year for this to be resolved for the Croatian state should not be a problem compared to 1199 people who are very, very damaged and extremely difficult to live for. So I repeat once again, given that this is about changes that contribute to insurance because they provide in some way their right to appeal to certain decisions, the right to seek a more favourable solution, so it regulates one procedure that has so far been known to be and in the service let's say closing the system, the pension system to the users. In this context, surely the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian People's Party will support the adoption of this law, but I took advantage of the opportunity to point to the others openly, not all of them, but these burning problems that are necessary to solve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73617	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on that wheel. And then it's the distinguished representative Sunday's Klaric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73618	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So this law, which is now before us, is in line with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act as well as with the fulfilment of the measures that the European Commission has set out in Chapter 23 of the Justice and Fundamental Rights Act. The adoption of this law of a special contract and procedure shall be governed by the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act, in accordance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, i.e. It will be uniform to how this is governed by the law other than the second-degree body which is set out in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office and established by the Board of Appeals. The place of residence or residence temporarily determines the local jurisdiction to resolve pension rights, and only subsidically according to other criteria. The chosen primary health care doctor proposes to initiate the procedure under official duty for the exercise of the right to the basis of disability, which also makes it more clear that the procedure is being launched on this basis at all. So, based on disability. Likewise, the party in the proceedings, which is abroad, does not have to have the authority to receive letters in the Republic of Croatia, which is in line with the position of the Constitutional Court of Croatia and the provisions of international social insurance contracts as well as the regulations of the European Union. The provisions so far on the finality of the solution in the administrative procedure are in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act. The deadline for the release of the solution is also set. Therefore, the recognition of the right to pension insurance by applying international social insurance contracts, which is 60 days from the date on which the Croatian Pension Insurance Office receives complete, pardon the complete data which are definitely determined to complete the procedure by the competent foreign insurance provider. These are all the reasons why I'm going to support the adoption of this law, and I personally think it's good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73619	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the final? Yeah. Dear Krešimir Rogman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go. Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the final? Yeah. Dear Krešimir Rogman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73620	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd just like the Retirement Act, passed at the end of last year, was adopted in two readings. Preparations before the government concluded in line with the ZUP, so as we first prepared to amend some of the other provisions of material legal nature concerning the insurance company, or the pensioner then did not go to... This conclusion was delayed by the government after the law was prepared and the Constitutional Court decision that we are harmonising here from November 2010. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So before it is, later than that law was passed. So that's why there's been these changes that are, I'd say the problem of only technical nature because we have a consolidated text, and as far as we've heard from all of us, of course, the Ministry of Administration is not controversial to anyone. I would just briefly say a brief reference to the allegations of the distinguished representative of Hrelje. So, as far as citizens are concerned in the JNA service, their salaries have not been known to you. They went through the military post office and as far as salaries are concerned, there's no information. Only on the basis of a work book can this not be established. It says in the workbook, so the design and termination, and there's no pay in the workbook. So it was resolved how we were already dealing with procedures based on a succession. So, and besides, we don't think that's a big deal. But if it were for one person, it would be a problem, but there's no such data from the Bureau. As regards other issues such as the Civil Service Act and compliance with the Pensions Act, there is no superlaw. So, that one... A law that regulates working relationships and some other laws have certain specific provisions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You could agree perhaps no more laws in Croatia should determine that someone has to retire under the law. But it's a special matter of administration now. So that's where they want to achieve some other goals that older people don't work at the state administration. I can't comment on that right now. So it's not formally contrary. And the most sensitive question that has already been raised here many times, the question, even though I don't think it's the subject of this law right now. But I do think that given the sensitivity of the topic and the interest of those pensioners present and those who will be soon still require a comment. So it's true that this problem has arisen. It is true that after this brief payment of contributions, especially those who are low wages cannot get a higher pension. So, to say that someone was seduced by it or by what was said in public, we do not have to agree, but it was obviously the wrong assessment of both those accounts and those persons. Because objectively, no one can think that I don't know six, seven years will pay one small amount and then 20 or how many years they get a large sum. But that's definitely a problem to take care of. We know about this law that's coming. I have to say, we wanted to do something similar. But we have a budget obstacle. And now because we have an obstacle to the budget we are thinking, and next week the work begins to change the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds. Namely, one way to solve this problem is for women. So, there are three ways possible -- the addition, the change in the basic pension that we think we shouldn't touch in this law, and the third possibility of getting out of the second pillar and moving to the first pillar, so in one of these variants we're going to talk about now. So we also think it's one problem that needs to be solved, but this was now consistent with the ZUP, and the Retirement Act, and then we couldn't even solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73621	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73622	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, look, I can't believe that at the time we signed social agreements with all of our neighbours, we can't get data in the archives of the former state institutions, we can't believe that we have been able to get credible data about the internship and about the contributions of certain insurance companies, who worked as civil persons in the military, and today they're going to retire in Croatia. I just can't believe it. And as for the second part, we only have two options, because that change in basic pension and the amendment of the allowance is under one variant, one, it's not either/or, but also/i, and one and the other is the possibility, the possibility of choosing a more favourable right at the time of retirement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73623	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73624	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. Please engage, please vote. The result? With 97 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the proposed law was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73625	We move to point 13, that is - - Final proposal of the Law on the Prohibition and Prevention of Unregistered Activity, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 731 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received the proposal in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tihana Kraljić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73626	Thanks to the most beautiful, respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, the Proposer accepts the adopted amendment of the Committee on Legislatives. Introductoryly, I would like to say about this final proposal of the Law on the Prohibition and Prevention of Unregistered Activity, that unregistered activity is only one of the emerging forms of the Grey Economy. Equally, the basic intensities of this law which are general law and which are sanctioned to carry out unregistered activities, i.e. sanctioning all those who exercise their activity in the Republic of Croatia today without registering it either in the craft register or in the register of a commercial court, and also not even registering it with tax authorities. There are specific laws that regulate certain types of activities, such as The Law on Trade, the Law on Hostage, however, exists a whole series of services which are not currently covered, and where inspection services mean without the adoption of one such law are not able to carry out and supervise. This law clearly and unequivocally determines what it is to carry out unregistered activities, but also in relation to previous, or first reading, it equally clearly and unequivocally determines that carrying out unregistered activities does not mean working for its own needs, providing friendly, family and neighbourly assistance. The law lays down who conducts supervision and who are in violation and the other sanctions. Here is the proposer proposing the adoption of the law in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73627	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73628	Dear Vice-President, we are, of course, pleased that the motionor gave this law, or the final proposal of the Law on the prohibition and prevention of the conduct of unregistered activities in two readings, which was, in some way, respected some of the remarks made in the first reading, but this is still not enough to stay with our original position, and the first position of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Party was that instead of writing a law with 10 articles, it was enough to write a law with one article that would be called the Law on Unregistered Activity, because here we say that it is illegal, all of which already falls under other laws, and already there is an inspection of the work to sanction such phenomenal forms. I'm glad that the proposer has put down his ambitions in relation to the fight against corruption, which is to say, to fight the gray economy, because this is really in this context the law of great desires, but a small procedure, and as I said to the board, this is a network for small blue fish, this is not a network for large fish. Here you are allowed to safely inspect the work to build a register of craftsmen and shut-down crafts looking around the houses if someone is doing hairstyles by house, whether someone is working ceramics for someone else, etc., to check, possible punishable because of unregistered activity, or because they are not in the trade register. We proposed in the first reading, and today we propose measures, so we won't say that this will be a completely invalid measure, but we said this is a measure of limited reach, we suggested something by modeling other countries, something we spoke about in the maritime code here would be worth doing with Croatian craftsmen. Namely, if the maritime code has shown interest in our ships coming under our flag, and therefore it has deviated from the profit tax, but has introduced a tonage tax, so on the loadability of these ships, therefore a much simpler solution, much more favourable for boaters, and here we know that craftsmen are not the richest people of Croatia, but people who feed their families from their crafts, from their city. We know that they are needed as a strong social fuse for Croatia, that we would be glad to have as many as possible, that they are all registered because by doing what they are doing, we do not have the unemployed. So we don't have to choke them with taxes. The proposal was that they, to be assigned a flat-rate as one of the options, a flat-rate tax payment, but of course they make a commitment to all be registered. One of the proposals was also to increase that famous quota of 85 thousand kuna if I am not wrong with gross income in the year to 200, to tie that quota to the number of employees. Because we can't watch a craftsman do his own job, he's got his own workshop than he can hire more people. Finally, in our first reading, we also suggested that we take a look at a model in Belgium where a voucher was introduced for such jobs. For example, when banks provide loans for apartment equipment, for building a house, etc., then they never give cash, but they give a voucher paying for crafts work in which the tax is already in place, that is to say, when the voucher is charged, it stops eating. Therefore, one good technical solution. I'm not saying that any solution, I'm not saying that we're right, but I'm not sure that this is the only solution we're talking about today. It will certainly not include all the unrecorded, unpaid work done in the gray economy, especially in the catering, tourism and trade. So, he certainly, this law certainly won't solve the issue of non-reporting workers, and these are generators of the grey economy more than small craftsmen. But it is certain that this law will bring restless dreams into those who at home have hairdresses or have a massage salon that is mobile, so go, no one comes to them for massages, but they go to families, to massage households. And it won't be easy to trust the inspections that this is how this law provides for the detention of registered activity, it won't be. In times of crisis, only increased motivation and service users are also able to pay as little as possible, and you know well that unregistered activity charges less prices. And that was the basic thought and basic idea of the Association of craftsmen that primarily this law prevents the grey economy but prevents unfair competition in craftsmanship. They went before us and before your ministry with this request. Because it's a burning problem for them. I really understand craftsmen that it's not easy to be a craftsman who pays for everything, and his competition is someone who doesn't pay for anything. I understand their idea, but I don't think we're going to solve the whole problem with this, or it's going to be very, very difficult to solve by applying this law. So we're going to have to use a lot more creativity, a lot more imagination, and find some new models because it's hard for one measure to bear fruit. Usually the goal is achieved by combining more methods. So to conclude, the HNS-HSU club won't be against this law, but it won't be regrettable either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73629	Thank you. It's SDP's turn, distinguished representative Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73630	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State. What about this law? A colleague of the Hill said a few things that I could really sign and support. We, as a nation, are inclined to see solutions in making new regulations, not in considering the implementation of existing ones. My 20-year practice in local self-government through the headships, through a conversation with those who enter politics, everyone thought we'd make a good decision and we solved the problem. But we never talk about making decisions, about realising what's in those decisions. We make a decision that, say, nightclubs can work up to two hours, the police don't control, the inspections don't work at night at 2:00, and the problem remains, working longer, harassing citizens. And this intensities that are given and which I have supported and regarding our current President of the Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Ranogajc, who, as the President of the Chamber of craftsmen of our county, has advocated and advocated this problem, really needs to be solved by the problem of unfair competition. You have a situation today, I'm not going to talk about companies, cut furniture elements out of service, make people at home agree and sell to customers as finished furniture, don't pay taxes, pay VAT when buying that material in a store and compete with those who pay taxes neatly, hire people, pay all those taxes that today crafts or small entrepreneurship must pay to the state as well as to all other countries. Whether they can be bigger or less can be talked about. So I think a lot of noise has been raised around this law as a solution. The fact that there was little, let's say cartoon solutions with these meters and meters and measuring neighbors next door, and then the journalists made sure they turned it into a cartoon, which I don't think is good. That constructive criticism is welcome for both us and the promoter, but because we all need to strive to pay everyone in this country their obligations that are regular and prescribed. Therefore, as a colleague of the Hrelja, we cannot oppose the legitimate law of the government of the current and ministry to try to find a solution for the gray economy and illegal economic activities, but we cannot support it because we think that there is no rabbit in that bush. I'll give you an example of building inspections. Construction inspections have instructions on actions while it's at a low level of construction not to enter the site. And you know when you get to the level of high-building means above zero ground then that means that a couple of tens of thousands of kunas have been spent and that you have to approach the crash again. I also suggested to our former minister that one solution be introduced into the law, which is that municipal inspectors become auxiliary building inspectors. At local level, we can first react to illegal construction in cases that do not comply with the law, identify, invite, issue a search warrant and invite an inspector who can carry out the procedure further. It's similar with these things, not to become all spies, but the fact is that we don't stimulate certain services to function in detecting such illegal activities. And I repeat, it is not a solution to law-making but to apply and implement existing laws by those who are qualified and paid to do so and invited. Once again, we won't object, but we can't even support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73631	Thank you very much. It is the turn of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73632	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. We at the HSS Club want first of all to express our satisfaction by accepting the suggestion that this legislative proposal is discussed in two readings, because as we see from the proposal that we are discussing today, the Proposer has taken note of some of the remarks made in the first reading, and we can conclude that today the text in which some provisions have been incorporated that have removed certain ambiguities that could cause problems in its application. First of all, we are referring to Article 5 which is now more clearly defined which is an unregistered activity as exceptions to which the law will not apply, and is part of our traditions and customs. For example, when it comes to neighbourly assistance without which life in the country is unimaginable, which is an integral part of it, which is mutually helpful in larger jobs, such as seasonal works that must be carried out within a certain period of time such as harvesting grapes and pigs, but provided that work is performed without payment or other material benefits and is not performed regularly. We therefore welcome the fact that the proposer has complied with the comments made and has given up the definition of neighbouring assistance within 500 m of each other's distance, and the HSS club will support this legislative proposal that is needed to combat the grey economy more successfully, which unfortunately is a very present phenomenon in Croatia. In fact, the fact is that in a situation where it is harder to get to work, many craftsmen are barely able to put an end to the end because of the unfair competition represented by those who offer their services on black without tax burdens but respect for standards, and are therefore cheaper than those who regularly comply with their legal obligations. On the other hand, this also damages the whole society because it avoids paying taxes and thus reduces the revenues of the state budget, which ultimately causes damage to all Croatian citizens. Under the current rules, inspections did not have a legal basis for handling such cases, but this legislative proposal will allow for an even more effective action which we are confident to contribute to a greater repression of the grey economy, and this is also one of the measures for economic recovery. It concerns the fact that the percentage of the share of the grey economy in Croatia's gross domestic product is estimated at 16%, and compared with new EU members, Croatia is classified among the countries with the highest prevalence of the informal economy. In fact, the average for 10 new EU members is over 12% and additional efforts need to be made to reduce this percentage, and we think that this is exactly what we are doing. The law prohibiting and preventing unregistered activities also requires the Croatian Chamber of crafts to protect craftsmen who have registered and carried out their activities in accordance with the law, because of such unfair competition, which, due to non-payment of taxes, has less operating costs in an unequal situation. In addition, due to the impact of the grey economy, prices of products and services are further reduced while the state grants remain the same. Furthermore, the economy is less productive because of the grey economy, and a significant part of the economic activity is not included in the overall economy, making more valid economic indicators such as GDP seem smaller than they are. In addition, people working in the field of the gray economy do not have the same status as legal employees. Given the already mentioned damage to the state budget due to lower tax revenues, which is why taxpayers also bear a higher tax burden in the HSS club, we do not have the hope that this legal regulation will be fully combated by unfair competition, but this legal proposal will certainly affect the reduction of unfair competition and the protection of registered craftsmen as we have heard the request from the Chamber of Commerce. Therefore, the HSS Club will support this bill because we believe it will contribute greatly to reducing the grey economy or unfair competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73633	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73634	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. At the beginning of my presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club, I must express my satisfaction that we went in two readings and that we have made some of the illogical things that have been corrected in the first reading. However, what is not too high today, and it is not too bad to mention that the gray economy is something that the whole world is struggling with. The developed world has this in smaller forms, and undeveloped worlds in larger forms. However, it is very interesting that the results of the grey economy have a significant impact on how the costs of the local government budget, but also on the costs of the EU's common budget. And you saw that all the members of the new European Union, 10 of them, had to correct their gross domestic product before entering the European Union, according to an extremely conservative methodology, so it went practically to a minimum assessment, however the average of 12.1% for the simple reason that gross domestic product and gross domestic product per capita is the basic parameter for obtaining money from the common budget of the European Union. And accordingly, the Republic of Croatia also made three years ago to say that statistical change and increased its gross domestic product by a share of the grey economy around 16%. Now when we say 16%, then it doesn't seem much, but 16% of some 300 billion at that point in time is not a small amount, that's the amount of some... Kuna. [[You don't understand.]] It's somewhere around 48 billion kuna estimates of turning in that gray zone. Today we had opportunities here to listen to a rather dynamic debate over a child's allowance. And we're arguing whether it should be this or should be that, the basis for calculating whether or not someone needs to get a child's allowance, but this worm of the gray economy is very much working, because many of those who are engaged in certain activities that are not reported are making incomes that are not seen anywhere. And that's why, over the past years, we've been slowly pressing this grey economy through a series of legal solutions, and I think it's being brought in quite a few frames today where we need to push further to get to some European average. However, it is also very interesting to look at, I am talking about 2008 because in 2009, at this point it is, how much is the share of certain economic branches in the gray economy in the Republic of Croatia. And then when you move these economic branches to the budget's expense side, when you look at how many participants in the economy from these economic branches are saying that the state hasn't given them this much, you'll see that they're huge ingesters of the state budget, and at the same time their share in the gray economy is extremely high. I'll tell you now. So agriculture, hunting and forestry 10%, fishing 20%, construction 1%, wholesale and low 12%, hotels and restaurants 25%. And what is clearly defined here is what is, but what is clearly not seen and what many Croatian citizens say, I would not want to be rude right now, but perhaps it is the most appropriate word, they have no idea but often naive in that, which is a variety of services both in real estate and in some financial services as much as 25%. So, with this law, we have touched the top of the iceberg, we have sent a clear message that this is one problem that needs to be solved and that has to be addressed, clearly sent a message to all state institutions with repressive means of saying, from market inspection, through tax administration, financial police, financial inspectorate, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, construction inspection, so all possible inspections should be done, that it should work. I'm saying, we touched the tip of the iceberg because we just mentioned here some activities that maybe even in the whole story make up maybe 3 or 4% of the total grey economy. Perhaps it was in the first reading that some things were awkwardly defined, so the law might have gone public in one totally wrong direction, but I sincerely hope that we will now point it in one positive direction. However, what we must wipe out of our heads, the European Union will not forgive us for the grey economy. When we enter, they will demand that we re-correct our gross domestic product for the simple reason that our gross domestic product indicators per capita will certainly jump up for an additional 1500 or 2000 euros compared to the current and will therefore provide us with the help that we will be able to get. Therefore, as a state, it is in the interest of us to reduce this grey economy, that what needs to come into the budget to come because we are going to lose that money anyway, we will not get them from the European Union. And also to eliminate the various aids and support, regardless of whether it is physical or legal persons, because simply those who are in some illegal way involved in income-making processes that simply eliminate it so that they can't get any support from the state budget. Because we had a Committee on Tourism today, and when it comes to the indicators of tourism in Croatia, they compare with us competitive countries, no one mentions this data about the share of the grey economy in tourism because if that part of the grey economy were installed in those indicators then the picture would be quite different. Unfortunately, in Croatia, we tend to compare some things that cannot be compared because we did not methodically put them in the same frame and then we get the wrong picture. We may make some political points right now, but we really won't solve the problem. We've all known the most banal thing for years, that inspectors of tourism and market cannot enter a house where everyone knows that 10, 20 Germans or some other foreigners are flying, may the Germans forgive me for mentioning them. he has no reported activity, no sign of renting rooms or zimmerfrei or as it is already called, while... His neighbor has all this legally reported and he'll have his inspection two or three times. [[You don't understand.]] And then we're talking about how this guy or that guy bought the apartment or bought the apartment, rented it, but no one can do anything to him. So we need to create preconditions that in such recorded situations those in charge of control in Croatia can come to check whether it is an illegal exercise of activity. So that's one smaller segment civil. A large part of illegal activity occurs in large corporations, with various intellectual services such as these and such. I can tell you this from experience, as a former finance minister where tax administration inspectors could enter, determine a few million dollars or euros paid bills without having been adequately documented and believe that in such cases we have charged taxes. But what is it, it was one to say the model that everyone used. When the tax collectors first caught them, they stopped but started with something else, and that is the most legitimate way for him to make practically part of the profits he makes in Croatia to spill out and avoid tax scissors. So there are many models, there is no uniform form to combat the gray economy for the simple reason that in Croatia, in this short but bitter history of 20 years, we can see that at certain moments of our country's development and the development of our economy, certain economic branches have been stricken by the grey economy. Now let's not go 20 years back, go the last 10 years backwards. At the time of the big road construction expansion, when the big expansion of building apartments started, you know what happened? If the building was, they were over 40% share in the gray economy for the simple reason that a lot of those who worked were working in one way or another. They weren't registered. Also, remember that moment when it was not in Croatia I would not like to advertise, but while there were many trade chains there were many of those so-called. The trunk of a store where certain goods were smuggled from Hungary or Austria and sold on panels. At that time, trade was the most involved in the gray economy. However, as certain things are arranged, such a grey economy in these economic branches is being reduced. But that's why it doesn't shrink in others. Or just take it in fishing. Those who deal exclusively with hunting, the catches of bluefish have a very small share of the gray economy. However, those who deal with the catches of white fish, so what they can sell on the market in another segment where there is a gray economy and can be angry as much as anyone wants but it simply exists in hospitality. So where I can sell my goods past the bill is the share of the gray economy much bigger. And they're just facts. And there is no need to hide before them; there is no need to justify them. But we also need to find models to fight that evil. And today someone here mentioned it when it was a child's allowance to the OIB. Yes, the OIB is the most effective model for fighting the gray economy. And state institutions are at this point all interlinked. The fact that some referent will not use the possibility of getting all the data and that the citizens of Croatia or entrepreneurs are not moving from address to address is its poor functioning. Only at this time that the OIB cannot be fully seen are limited liability companies registered before 2010 and this is one of the great results of the inequitableness in the Republic of Croatia. Because you saw that over 70% of the companies that are blocked at this time in Croatia, which account for around 66% of the funds blocked, are unpaid companies without any employees. So, the company that somebody opened left behind and moved on. However, at the moment when the High Court of Commerce seduces through the OIB, counterpart Anticevic is a prerequisite to be seduced in the High Court of Commerce, which you could have done before. So when they're set, then you'll see clearly the beauty of the owners of all these companies. Well, of course I'll get it. But then you'll go to the Court Register Act. I know what you're going to say right now, and I agree with you here. You know that well. So, I'm just saying that the High Court of Commerce, you well know that five of them agreed, founded a company. According to the outside, there was only one showing, and 5 of them regulated each other's rights and obligations either by a social or a share contract. But you didn't see them outside. We now will and therefore the Law on the Court Register has been amended so that when the OIB enters to see precisely that it is the owner or co-owner of that company and if this company is the owner or co-owner of all these companies, that it is simply a glue that can be seen exactly where who is the owner and co-owner. Finally, since it is also related to this Financial Depositary Agency where securities owners are registered. So all financial incomes of individuals will be visible. Any of his purchases of real estate or anything will have to have financial coverage. And the logical thing is that part of the money that's going to be made on the gray market is going to be very hard to get into legal flows. So it's a very complex process and I think that when we talk about this, we've gone too slowly into political waters, although I think we all have the same goal and the same desire, which is to solve the problem of the gray economy. And believe me, when it started in the OIB project, we got compliments. It was also a project that was nominated by the World Bank for the 10 best IT projects in that year with the very goal of clearly seeing in the central register everything anyone has and who does. And since God and man were a grey economy, and it will be, and the orderly states have shown themselves in this, whether or not they are, the degree of that grey economy being greater or smaller. So don't forget those 25% I said in financial institutions, institutions that deal with real estate sales. So, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this law as well as all other laws that are on the verge of fighting together the greatest evil of humanity, which is corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73635	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73636	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to admit, I'm partially and surprised by the debate Mr. Shucker had. Absolutely in this part of the fight against the gray economy yes, but here I will correct an incorrect allegation. He said that he was in a ministry or tax administration to see if he would use the OIB and see if someone had achieved certain funds and revenues in an unregistered activity or not paid the tax. Well, it's amazing that fellow Shuker who was a member of the government, the finance minister says it's up to officials, that it's not a matter of government and decision, of the political will to deal with the gray economy and those who illegally obtained income. But here we have fulfilled all the preconditions only our officers do not want to use it. So here's Mr. Shucker here from the pay phone said. And of course they can't agree with that because it was clear to all of us that some people who now have blocked assets worth 30 million kuna. They couldn't get that legally, and they were sitting next to you at meetings, etc. [[Intruder Capricorn: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73637	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73638	Article 209 of his colleague, Maras, did not correct what he said. He corrected what I didn't say, and fellow Maras so look around you and many around you are sitting and you were in the grip of financing the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73639	Thank you very much. The second correction to the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73640	A few incorrect corrections to incorrect allegations, and I'm going to start with this first one that was last said by Mr. Shucker when he said that since God and man have a gray economy. When God was never there, there was no economy, no gray economy. Since when there may have been a man, and since HDZ has both gray and black economies. That's the problem. And when we're Mr. Schucker, it's incorrect that you say that in such a way you've made it possible for the grey economy to be contained, to end up not paying off the state. It's that old problem that we know ourselves well about, and it's true that we've introduced a mechanism to prevent everything, but at least it would make it impossible for those who do business in a way that they don't pay their creditors whether they're workers, suppliers, creditors or states. You made it possible for them, i.e. Prime Minister Sanader. You're the only one who's been through it. Because you've abolished this protective mechanism and made it possible for those who lose their case, who have to pay to start new companies uninterrupted, leaving it that way. [[/Intruder Capricorn: Time. Bring the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73641	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73642	The debtors behind them, and creating.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73643	Thank you very much. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73644	Get down.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73645	Your Honor, your time is up. Thank you. You've got to stick with everybody else. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73646	Thank you very much. So since colleague Anticevic didn't correct the incorrect allegations, and she didn't correct what I was saying, then I picked up a plate of damage to the Rules of Procedure. However, they should know that the Ministry of Finance does not pass the Law on the Court Register, but is brought by the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73647	Thank you very much. And with us, it's the usual way to fix things like that. ... Please, don't pollemize from the rally. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't pollemize from the bench. We're moving on to an individual debate, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar is first in line, and let him speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73648	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In order to avoid a trap of false understanding of the law at first one question if you can explain it to me, Article 3(2), definition of a natural person within the meaning of this law. This formulation also includes family farms. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So it also means OPG. ... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much for your answer. I mean, ordinary people react strangely when someone honestly asks something and admits that they don't understand, so then I try to see if the answer is yes or no. Because you know when I understand things, trust me, boo and every fool clear, so I always like to clear up the dilemmas I have. And it's not bad to ask if a man doesn't know. Now we can look at the grey economy, discuss it from different aspects, aspects of state interest, the state budget, local budgets, impact on social policy, but obviously this bill is due to the pressure of employers, craftsmen on a problem called unfair competition. And indeed on the market when they conflict or meet on one side and on the other, two entrepreneurs, one of whom regularly fulfils their obligations, have all the workers reported, and the other who, let's say only half of them do not have, that they can hardly be with the same price on the market, the same offer, with the same business results. Is this or this model of the law going to be largely or largely affecting the reduction of the gray economy, and the reduction of unfair competition? I don't believe she'll give some big results, she'll probably be at the beginning of a small campaign, so every night the media will report that some inspector or some inspection discovered 5, 6, 10 hairdressers in one city or some other activity, and after 2, 3 months she'll slowly forget about this. Because I am convinced that no one will be able to prove to me the opposite, that our problems about the mechanisms of supervision and control and the resources of inspection services, which from, which objective, and which subjective reasons simply are unable to control and control the application of the regulations of the existing, so that the grey economy is less. And I'm glad that my colleague Schucker brought up some data that I didn't know so far, or the fact that they were trying to fool everyone around to avoid paying taxes. But look at the unfair competition beginning at the time of the unregistered workers. And now it's not that some entrepreneur has one or two undeclared workers, they have them at 50, 60, in some activities that get jobs seasonally or suddenly, you have a situation where you have one registered and 60 unregistered workers on the site. They are trained and trained, because they know the direction of escape when the inspection service appears and no identification document at work can be found at the workplace, because if they do, they will not be able to identify it. It is as the law stipulates that an employer must train a worker for safe work, so these employers train workers to flee from inspectors when they appear, and what answers they must give. This law will not improve to reduce the number of undeclared workers. Irregular competition is payout, or part of the salary under the table in cash. This law won't affect it at all, but I can understand some craftsman who pays a worker two thousand kuna cash, but how does someone get to 5 million cash every month that pays under the table to workers as a salary? As possible, watch out for 5 million cash every month to have. And there's no trace of him anywhere. And the last two, three months, for years. Companies that are usually rewarded in Croatia, I have now remembered one who has received the Golden Kun, which has roughly the same rule of conduct for years. Unloyal competition is also a bargain when it comes to mineral raw materials, gravel, but not as an exploitation but as a cleaning of the troughs, building ponds of riverbeds, building ponds, maintaining the environment. ... Or, yes, for recovery, let's say something, right? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This law will also not touch for it, and for the value of influence on unfair competition, these examples I have set cannot be compensated by 500 thousand hairdressers who carry out their activities in their apartment. That's why I'm skeptical that we're going to have enough inspection supervision to apply this law, and in itself, the law of whatever rigorous sanctions we're threatening will not produce results on its own, unless there are changes to these three examples that I've made. It is interesting, and this example of Shucker's colleagues, that large amounts of resources for various intellectual services have been discovered, so paying abroad to avoid paying taxes at home, it just means that there are creative or something more creative in entrepreneurship than all of us who are trying to follow through the legislative process, so that we prevent and prevent in advance, and I agree with my colleague Schuker that unfair competition and grey economy were and will be, but he will have to agree with me that we will all have the right to say that we are satisfied when we say we reduce it to 15%. And today, in Croatia, it is far greater by all estimates, not only of our own, but also of the outside. ... Between 15 and 20, here we go to 20 for a start, it's about 12 billion less than it is now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I know that you're convinced that this law can contribute possibly to that with one prominence no more than that. I'll support him, I won't be constructively restrained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73649	Thank you. It's our guest, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73650	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Secretary of State. Well, I'm sorry that I've had the opportunity to hear here on many occasions from some colleagues who predict the ineffectiveness of this law in advance, and that the law isn't actually in place yet. And that it's just a guess that there's not going to be any efficiency and there's some flat-rate ratings. So to combat the grey economy, no government in the world, so far in Croatia has been able to propose such effective solutions that it can completely eliminate the gray economy. No one but this government has offered anything better than this bill of law that tries and which is the primary goal of curbing the gray economy. But unfortunately, individuals are still trying for a well-known scenario if you're not going to help, so at least get in the way because it's important to participate. Surely this law, as much as we now criticise it, is either justifiable or unwarranted, one attempt to make that multi-headed nemesis, this grey economy, if it can't be eradicated to at least as much as it tries to contain. It's the problem of the gray economy around the world and it actually chokes a lot of state economies. And in particular, this grey economy has unfortunately strengthened these transition countries where it appears to have a characteristic of the social shock absorbing the consequences of the negative impact of this transition in these countries. Well, then for that reason, unfortunately, he's so unemployed, he's better off working in the joint than out of a job. According to recent research by 33 countries, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Croatia is third in share of the grey economy with some estimate of 34.9% of GDP, and behind us are Romania and Bulgaria with 37% share. In Slovenia, the share of the grey economy in GDP is around 27.4%, only 8.3% in Switzerland. Normally, this is all an indicator of how much the country is more developed, stronger economic, etc. There's a logical and smaller share of that gray economy. Croatia is therefore classified among the countries with the largest dilated grey economy. For Croatia, the grey economy in this unfair competition means a loss at an annual level of around 20 billion kuna. While, according to the World Bank, the grey economy for Croatia means a loss of 120 billion kuna. Our data is very different. According to World Bank data in Croatia last year, about 150 thousand people worked in the area worked in the gray economy. If only we were to ask how much this would contribute that these 150 thousand people had reported their activity and, behold, paid in retirement and could normally pay themselves a salary of what a contribution and a relief to the pension system would be. The grey economy is also generated in many areas by large companies. It is not unknown that many large companies are blackmailing their cooperatives, so they do not pay off their obligations in time. Then, many companies and employers force workers to pay minimum wages legally, and the other part is paid to the black under the table. And normally, and it's an area of gray economy that unfortunately, I don't know, no one has yet offered any recipe and a solution that can ever be solved with us. And that's a big problem. Normally there is a gray economy as well as a fellow Shuker in tourism with quite a high percentage as I have heard, in hospitality etc. But I also agree with all those who say that state institutions in that area should be more effective in detecting and tax evasion and normally doing so in the field of gray economy. The 2009 Tax Administration data that we could read here in the materials say that they discovered citizens and companies in an attempt to oust 1.8 billion kuna. So now that we take these differences that are estimated in Croatia 20 billion or the World Bank 120 billion kuna, then they are huge disproportionates of what the Tax Administration actually manages to discover on an annual level, and how much this grey economy is present in our economy. The transparency of the law will certainly make it easier for many inspectors to control, i.e. to find and enter those areas where such unregistered activity is carried out, and normally all with the aim of preventing and illegal competition from those who have registered their activity, have reported trades and who regularly pay taxes in this country. It is not a secret, I believe that we have all heard that the Croatian Chamber of crafts and today on the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership is a representative of the Chamber of Commerce very much welcomed this bill because they have been thinking loudly for a long time and are asking for it to come simply, to pass a law that would prevent this illegal competition, a fush that is present from production to service, and normally to encourage registration of crafts and that these people are then taking part in an equal competition. The stories that have been running through the media lately, and here in one section, the proposed law did not highlight the essence of this law that should actually be used as a tool in the fight against the gray economy. We've done more pig-cuttering, grape harvesting, olives, plums than what's really the point of this law. I am pleased that the promoter has also respected these remarks and these traditional values in our country that there is in fact no danger that a friend, neighbor, family can help each other naturally without charge and regardless of the distance of dwellings. That's why I think it should be stressed that carefreely continue to cherish these traditional values of ours, and people should not be afraid to go in harvesting grapes, olives, help friends with pigs, etc. And finally, by applying this law, I believe in more efficiency as I have said to the competent inspectors in detecting unregistered activities because, in fact, this law has given them an improved tool in their hands and I think we should see these disproportionate ones that are shown in this information, from the world bank to our estimates of how much unregistered activity or this grey economy participates in the Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73651	We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73652	Dear colleague Kunst, you said it was very logical that developed countries have less gray economies. It seems to me that things are slightly different or that it takes reverse values of the system to actually reduce the grey economy or by fighting the gray economy, developed countries are being created. Secondly, I'd like to ask you a question when we're already having a rather constructive discussion on all sides of this issue. How much unemployment and poverty in Croatia are creating a grey economy at this point, i.e. the easiest way to say how they benefit from the creation of a gray economy, because on the one hand we have reduced purchasing power almost everyone, and on the other hand we have the need to survive those who know how to do something and at any cost, of course, absolutely normal to fight for survival. And why didn't we also put them in the post of fighting the gray economy? In essence, look at me, you said this was a good tool to fight the gray economy, but I still think this is picturesque to express myself with a little moot on a hectare of weeds. Therefore, I do not think that you have convinced me that the impact of this law will be great, I think that there is still a need to combine more methods and that there should be a comprehensive fight against the gray economy, and the other must not be forgotten that in all countries in the crisis, the grey economy is one social shocker and I think we can all agree on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73653	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73654	Thank you very much. Comrade Hrelja, it is clear to me that your mission as an opposition representative is that if you can't help then at least you can because it is important to participate. But there's no reason for you to criticize this law, and you're being contradictory in these stories yourself, so you're saying that, in fact, by combating the gray economy, we can be a more developed state. Well, on that trail, this law is exactly like one of the tools we're going to fight against the gray economy, and you're literally criticizing it. Let me offer you something smarter if you feel that this law is bad, but I will be glad and everyone can offer something better how to fight the gray economy when it is not the problem of Croatia. It's a world problem, it's a problem all over the world. Then you say how many people work in that area of the gray economy. Well, according to the World Bank's report last year, about 150 thousand people worked in the gray economy, clearly, and it's particularly clear, and that's what I said in my discussion in transition countries, that this is exactly how the gray economy is, in fact, one of the social shockers in transition states. But we can't deal with it. Surely there are social mechanisms in the country to help people who are socially at risk and who need this help. So we can't say that we should legalize the work on black or simply reconcile with that if a man doesn't work that he can work on black and thus make a living. No, he needs help, hire him or other social mechanisms. So you can't criticise a law that's on the verge of curbing the gray economy. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73655	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, and it is up to the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73656	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The final proposal of the Law on Banning and Preventing Unregistered Activity that, by any chance, he had experienced another reading might have burned this book in three letters, such as the State Secretary, so I am not saying that it was her fault, but the government that gave her the task, that the most earnestly and intensely defends exactly those articles of this proposal of the law that was in the first reading they were untraceable because they were the most controversial, and it was treated as the State Secretary, introducing now the final proposal of the law and said and explained that the brotherly, sisterly, neighbourly, friendly assistance needed, which is normally especially in times of crisis when we cannot and cannot monetize all relations. Because it's not just about helping, through it people and friends have some customs and it's one great value. And I repeat, it's a great value especially in this time of crisis. And it's certainly good that the government did it. However, I would like to draw particular attention that the government would not have done so if it hadn't been for the public. And the public, as sometimes as it seems, can't do anything, is thrown into the abbey, that they're powerless, that all arguments fall into the water, it's still not true. So when that civil voice is clear, when it's well articulated, when you see all the absurdities of a proposal, then really that tenacity is worth it. That's what you saw on this bill. But speaking on behalf of the club, Mr. Hanzek can do it again, we stand at the point that this bill was not necessary at all. Apparently, the government needs all the law. I'm the title to figure out, here we pass a law that forbids and prevents unregistered activity, as if so far it was allowed. Madam Secretary of State says that we had no elements, no mechanisms to prevent unregistered activity. If that's true, and it's not true because it shows what the State Inspectorate is doing, and he doesn't need a norm at all because it's logical, because it comes from common sense, from our entire legal system that someone who works and didn't register his activity to be under sanctions and to pay the penalty. Well, you can see that in this rental, which is especially with us in Dalmatia, and then in Zagreb apartments, apartments, rooms and so on. There are enormous penalties, and these are these fines, and great punishments have forced people to have a peaceful dream and to register their activity, which is certainly good. So, explaining this is a rescue solution because that couldn't have been done by now, first of all, it's not true, it's one thing. The other thing, if it were true what you say, then you've now sent a message to all those carpenters, all those hairdressers, all those people who have been registered for years, who have been struggling for years with paying big taxes, taxes, parafiscal duties, how to get to work, how to secure the pay for their workers, how to pay everyone who has laid down the law. So you're sending them a message that so far they shouldn't have done it at all because even though they weren't in the area of registered activity, so in the zone of the law, but that the state couldn't do anything to them and that nothing happened would, of course, not true. So, this law essentially means that the state is doing what it could to do with the existing law on the State Inspectorate and through certain criminal provisions of certain activities. If something could not be done or had not been done, then somewhere an inspector would have come across a closed door which was by no means open by law, then the laws with two, three articles, especially this State Inspectorate Act, had to be completed. So to say that right now we have a mechanism, so far there's nothing we could do is just not true. But it's exactly what colleagues used to say from any club that really every state, every government and all states face a gray economy and a gray economy is impossible to eradicate. In a way, every country that lives in a no-recession conuktury, in a way, tolerates some small business, and that's not the problem. What, though, is the problem with us? And this bill is essentially distracting our attention from the key problem, as there has been a situation that many trades and trades have closed down, which has made it impossible for the state to do so and that many who have closed down, who have done good business, have come to the gray zone, and have recently worked perfectly legally. So, once in a state's carelessness, I am now not going to talk about the economic situation and our indicators that none of the relevant is good for Croatia. Thousands and thousands of turns are closed, almost every day a few are closed, but it is not only the result of the crisis but also the direct inaction of the state. That's what Mr. Shucker and I used to have polemics about before. Therefore, it is certain that the state has recently tolerated those, and still in the good part of the non-payment, those who are legally competing with these regulars on the other hand by those who do not operate legally. To God he is located in, not located in a gray zone because he has registered activity, these are still the most dangerous which are in the area of registered activities. They're simply tolerated to work illegally. Now I'm not going to talk about how they get jobs, how it's too broad a subject that would take us away. I want to concentrate on this particular problem. So how is it possible for the state to tolerate you from doing business and not paying off their creditors, I will repeat, whether they are states, whether they are workers, suppliers, and these others. These same suppliers who want to work well, who are believers in relation to those who are privileged and who are simply impossible and legally working because they are owed by others, and the state tolerates them to do so. And so we should have dealt with it, we pointed out, we met with this problem, so we introduced that mechanism so that those who had done business, who remained in debt, got the judicial decisions that we could not now come and close the key in the lock and mock both the judiciary and our believers. This was made possible by Mr Sanader through that famous project Government quickly.hr, that they must register quickly, and when we pointed out that we have no objection to all companies being quick, quick to register, and that was the least of the problems in the Republic of Croatia in 2004 and '05, '06. And now, other problems are much bigger, so we're told whatever but anyway they can register it to their mother, sister, brothers, connected to some person. And then what's the state, that the state instead of narrowing down the premises of these abuses, it enabled them. But it was clear, that former prime minister was clear why he was doing it, exactly why things were done by the court now. And now, and this composition, this power sequel should say no to that, and then eventually so that we have some kind of special law, because this is the only way to figure out here we want to ban and disable the gray economy. And indeed this grey economy and why auto mechanics, hairdressers and others would work on black so that others would have to pay all the dues. But tell me, please, why the state doesn't stop. We used to have this Family Law and so where it works, where the father, mother, family, they end up being forced to do something because they didn't get a decent salary because the government, they want to come to them tomorrow, as you survived, you were working on black. Now we come to this story of the most controversial article, that's article 6, that you just along with the police healthy and living, how well paid but at least they have a steady salary, and inspections, you make it from citizens that he does the job for the state...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73657	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73658	Because when he orders a job that he's going to have to, ask for a certificate, a copy of the register that this particular natural or legal person is listed in the register so that they can order that job.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73659	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the distinguished representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73660	My colleague Antičević, I agree with you that in fact this law as it is conceived will not solve the problem of the gray economy except that, with some services tasked with overseeing it, citizens will have to monitor it because the one who provides them with a service registered or not. However, I would like to say why does such a high share of the grey economy occur in certain societies? Well, that's exactly what happens in Croatian society. In times of crisis when low employment, when there is a large number of unemployed people, when low wages or when earnings are not even paid, so they don't pay for a few months, people are forced to work in a gray zone. They were forced to survive at all. If they're going, if they're out of work, they're going to the Employment Service. There, in just a short time, they receive a certain social compensation. After that, many are long-term unemployed for several years, have no income, can't get a job. And what else will they do than in the gray zone? Who's hiring them? Now the citizens will have to control whether someone who's been fired at a construction company, who's going to paint an apartment or not, I don't know what else they're going to do is registered or not. The craftsmen close their crafts for several hundred craftsmen a month precisely because they are heavily imposed on them. That is why the European Union also came out with a directive three years ago to reduce taxes precisely in those craft activities where the high share of labour is in the price of the service. Slovenians have recently reduced VAT to 5%, and in times of crisis, we have increased VAT by one percentage point.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73661	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73662	I think the state should take what you've turned to and pay attention to just taking action, narrowing down the possibility of a gray economy. But unfortunately with these few major things that I've talked about before and that you've outdone now, the state is simply pushing people into the gray economy. But what's simple, this provision is from a legal point of view inadmissible. Participation in unregistered activities between service providers and providers is not possible. Well, it's not a criminal act of meeting and participation where jobs are divided. Unregistered activity is one thing, and the client is another. You just can't make one copy of the crime scene and the kind of misdemeanor you want to introduce after you've done it. For what? So you don't believe again or you don't have a team to control this behavior, so you ask people to be inspectors. Therefore, each of the persons referred to in Article 6 shall be referred to as ‘the legal or natural person who makes it possible to carry out the unregistered activity referred to in Article 5 one or more of the persons involved and to carry out the unregistered activity’. Well, you have situations that have recently been revealed that he's been doing some kind of shop or some other service activity. It wasn't until later that they were unregistered. So, a man goes to buy bread or something. He's got to go to the register first and see if he can get into... So don't work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're doing an absurd again. It's the state's business. That's why taxpayers pay inspectors to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73663	Thank you. It's time for further discussion individually. It's our guest, Mr. Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73664	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the honor of the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here's first of all to realize that I support this bill's proposal. Here I also thank you for respecting the promoter that we have had two readings and in some way completed the law and in person that you have respected all the good part of it. It is very interesting today that this debate is about the subject of the gray economy and a good part of the participants in the debate has presented some of their vision, and we know less that the shape and manifestation of the gray economy itself has more than those called an illegal economy. So, the question of drugs, weapons and the like. The unregistered economy, therefore, is tax avoidance, informal economy, so to what is the subject of today's law, which is, in fact, an unregistered economy or unregistered in official statistics or activity without enrolment in the court register. As the introduction also said in the debate, the basic characteristic of the fact that the exercise of supervision and the taking of certain measures related to such activity was actually disabled and that it was in some way most seen here and said that it was a service activity and, as such, it could not be sanctioned in any way. It is clear that unfair competition is something which, above all, is the takeover of the market but also an unfair situation in the market competition, and that the way it is solved these are the repressive measures of the state administration in some way solved in particular in the part of this illegal and unreported but this part of the unregistered remains unresolved. However, unlike an esteemed colleague who spoke before me about our work as inspectors. I'd say from my life experience exactly the other way around. None of them ask for inspectors, but we all ask ourselves here amongst us when we needed certain jobs as a person and when someone did them to me we knew whether he was a natural and legal person and we all know that for a particular service or for the purchase of goods, there is a bill in which everything is clearly visible. If there is no such account, or if that account incriminating as such, then it will be for him who betrayed him, and not for him to whom he was appointed. It is actually a floscula, a sentence that speaks of such a way of communicating, that is, such a way of ordering work and putting on the person who ordered the job in an unequal position is ugly. I just think it's the other way around and it's one of his essential and good, qualitative measures because he's also putting someone who's ordered such a job or such a service into the situation that he's responsible for such illegal job ordering and he's aware of what he's getting into, and that's why it's supposed to be done that way. Now we come up with something else that no one has mentioned here today, which is actually our social consciousness and us here in the Parliament or us as citizens of this country who will declare ourselves to be a legal state, for all forms of working life that are in accordance with laws, norms, or norms, and then when it comes to us ourselves, we often turn a blind eye to one or another, and in some ways we overlook it as such, and what kind of social consciousness raises it to one, one higher level? Do you... We raise our sense of knowledge, pride and all that makes us so proud citizens of our country, or one good part and some repressive measures, because it seems that the situation when you rub someone's pocket for something you're... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] made the best and the best medicine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Perhaps another interesting finding when we speak, and today it has been mentioned that actually unemployment affects the very segment of the grey economy, and therefore with respect to a large number of unemployed citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I personally found myself as mayor in a really interesting situation, that in the context of one job and activities related to public works from the Zapresic Employment Office, I have sought 30 people by appropriate professional preparation for a particular type of work, and there are a lot more people who are unemployed on the record, and that we could not at that time get that public service, and they were exactly qualified for these jobs and qualified. So the question arises why is it so, is their constant help received through the Employment Office, and possibly working on black ultimately better and better quality than going into the system of therefore getting paid along with all those taxes and contributions that arises, and on the other hand, to companies, legal persons, craftsmen, we take bread out of hand, and when it comes to that kind of work. What I mean. That when I talk about the subject and the grey economy, that it is not unequivocal, that it is not black-and-white, but that it is true, and what can be seen from the debate so far depends on and depends on a lot of segments, but the good part and the behavior of ourselves as important participants in the business, the activities that are related to our overall social, political, economic life, and our contribution to each of us, which at some point can be put into a situation and how I acted at a given moment, whether I was in a position to receive an account suitable by law, whether I asked for it, and whether in this way, even if I did, even if I had a feeling better, I had, in fact, damaged a wider social community, so I damaged myself among other things, because in that same state budget, it was less money, than it would have been in that way, or by that account that I had been paid by the bill. So from this all I've... I therefore again find that I welcome the proposal to pass this law, with particular emphasis on the responsibility and on those who give and those who receive or do certain tasks on which they have received a certain order from someone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73665	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73666	Well, here's an esteemed colleague, it's true that it's harder for those who pay their taxes, and those who don't pay should be cheaper than they often are. That's definitely it. And I believe that it is very difficult for those who work and do not get paid and try to live on their own, and it could be very well checked at, say, one company, Coningu Jel, where workers are not paid for 4, 5 months, to see what these people actually live on, because the great magu since the Kukurik coalition Radimir Cacic, who will finally put Croatia's economy on its right feet does not pay workers. Why isn't he paying? Because he's not a minister and vice president of the government, he doesn't assign government jobs to his employees, and the company actually stands. Here they started to fool around, build around Samobor apartments, and it's all expensive, so let's see actually how people who don't get paid live, and what bright future shows them before them, indicates, when their boss finally becomes the vice president of the future Kukuriku coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73667	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73668	Well, dear fellow, everything you've said, I don't really have anything to answer for, because in itself it's visible. But it's also clearly said in my performance, I've only briefly looked beyond what's unregistered activity, in what we've said falls into a really widespread part of the gray economy, which is therefore an economy within the legal personality, which is indeed at some given times and a broad range of ways and behaviours that you've been talking about workers first, you've compensated workers primarily through non-payment, so no pay, through minimum wages and the rest on black, or through some other kind, whether labor contracts or other legal jobs that inside businesses, crafts can take place, and within certain legal persons. Of course, 100 people, 100 wonders, there are those who do good work, they do bad work, and there are also those who boast a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73669	Thank you. And last in an individual debate, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73670	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, honorary secretary of state, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. There is no better economic model than the market economy for the development of the national and world economy, and it must be based on the equality of all participants and all economic operators in the competition. And it is even regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. But this market equality, this competition is threatened by many factors, on all sides, sometimes even legally, but it is the most endangered or called unregistered activity or called it a gray economy, or by working on black, anyway, and those estimates as far as it is present in the overall economic activity, in the overall GDP, are so unserious that they vary even for the Republic of Croatia from 14% to 38%. There is no scientific method that can realistically assess the presence of unregistered activity, the presence of a gray economy, it's as safe as putting your hand on the patient's forehead, and you're diagnosing him from what he's suffering from. But the health of the economy depends solely on the level of the gray economy. When fellow Shuker said she existed since God and man, it was more to point to the longevity of such a negative phenomenon. But where there's God there's no such thing. Where there is no inhumanity or dishonesty or illegality, and in Croatia there is less and less and more negative phenomena and more and more of this is the presence of unregistered activity, i.e. the grey economy. And thus, the normal functioning of the system is at risk, resulting in unfair competition, the inequality of conditions. But not only with unregistered activity, unfair competition and the grey economy is where the activity is registered. And what is unpaid overtime than a gray economy? And there is progress in Croatia. Big companies don't think of anyone leaving before 8:00, 9:00 a.m. at home, and there's no private life, and no one pays for it. Well, that's why you should see other workers. So I often say that unwarranted workers, that they should, have the need for greater numbers, but the abuses of those existing for the same pay work much more. What about those who don't pay their suppliers? Isn't that unfair competition, too? What about those who work unregistered in companies that have registered activities? And there are those. Let's just remember when a large construction company had unregistered, unregistered ones I think 150 Romanians or Bulgarians a few years ago. There's people like that at every turn. That's what we have to stop. And where they are, isn't it unfair competition, fellow Schucker said the same thing in phantom intellectual services that I was talking about five days ago here, six last week, where big companies were leading. What do various companies do for non-alcoholic beverages, banks, institutions or, for example, whose cigarettes are sold illegally in Croatia on the road and on markets? And those from that factory show up and say there's a growing gray economy. Well, they're stealing these cigarettes from their factory. They are not foreign cigarettes, from their factory allowed to be stolen and sold illegally in the Republic of Croatia and still accuse the authorities of why this is happening. This law should finally prevent such negative phenomena. What's going on at Jakushevec? There are, people come in years, 40 years come in, sells their old car, watches which will buy, but there are also those who perform unregistered activity there. What about the fleas? What about the ones in the market holding the goods of broad consumption? No one's controlling them. And so far, the institutions could in some cases act and reduce the presence of such a grey economy. What about the quarrys? What about extracting gravel, what about camping? What about catering facilities during the tourist season? This law says that one who, whether physically or legally, makes it possible to carry out unregistered activities will also be responsible. Well, it's not the community's fault that someone's been on the force right now for 10, 15 years holding a camphouse, not issuing bills, there's 150 say one camp has 150 vehicles always at every moment in the camp, doesn't pay anyone, the municipality filed a lawsuit no one reacts. What's the state's inspection doing in these situations? We hesitate. It's not good to hesitate. How much did she confiscate the cigarette? Never. What do credit institutions do, what do financial institutions do? Here, it's not my job to inspectorate the state, call, I've just called, it says you're getting a loan. On that phone number, Vlast Ivan was unknown. You know how they react? I asked you a good day, I'm the one and that one, please what's your credit institution's name? You know how rudely they responded and hung up. But this has been flooding Croatia and trams for 10 years, and banks have never responded and fenced and offer loans to all banks. Are these people reported doing this? Do they even have an agency? He says contact the credit agency. No stamps, no nothing. Now, it predicts this law that one with all the information that advertises like this will have to answer, so we won't watch these jumbo posters – the goats are for compromise, and we have no idea who's writing it. I think that's the way to end it. But I have several examples that work and where to intervene. According to the Company Act, lawyers know best, there is no concept of a group. And some groups flooded in Croatia. That group PBZ group, so group this, group that. Just so they can handle each other's accounts in order to keep the tax as low as possible. There is no group under the Company Act nor can it be registered. Then how can you have a memorandum and then how can it work? Not at all. That can be prevented. The level of action of all of us individuals depends on how grey the economy will be. What is non-accounting rather than encouraging the gray economy? And imagine at the temple of Croatian legislation for 3.5 years no one has ever received an account in our restaurant in the Parliament. In the temple of legislation. That's inadmissible. You come to the car wash you can't get the bill, you have to do it every step of the way. I think the better and stronger activity of all institutions and of all individuals and those who are forced to work overtime, and are not paid, could contain such a high presence of the gray economy. And the law could be a little clearer, better, and more precise if you, for example, were in Article 9. - do not write and there is still time for you to give the amendment to the Government, says: "In carrying out the inspection surveillance referred to in Article 8 of this Act, the competent inspector will use the oral solution in the minutes etc." There is no oral solution. How is someone going to use the oral solution in the record? He can only issue an oral order, and no oral solution. The solution can only be written. So please try to make it right. What about the cafes? So many waiters for undeclared. Therefore, it is not only a problem of unregistered activity but also of those working in registered entities. What about intellectual services? What about imaginary travel orders? All this contributes to unfair competition. What about those who don't pay their dues? They rented a space and did not pay for 15 years to local self-government or private rent, while at the same time there is competition which must pay its rent neatly and neatly. It's unfair competition. And it can't come from a healthy economy. So this law I believe will contribute and that there will be little more that they have said here to God and little less Satan in the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73671	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73672	Dear colleague Marić, I hope you will not take my line as a gentleman, but I am sure you will not understand as Mr Kunst, because he usually gets it all wrong. I respect this ad demonstration of yours that we find on the poles and on the trams. In fact, almost four years ago, a representative question to which the minister of the day, and here our colleague, Mr Shuker, has prepared very well, I have asked precisely because of these loans and I say very well prepared and answered well, but unfortunately the realization is still very questionable. I wanted to look back on your two claims. First, the equality in the competition, that it is the most important, but it predominates the construction of the system. So it can't be created just like that and I think that we are in our work, so the Croatian Parliament in some way a generator of inequality in the competition. I think we can also agree that the grey economy is a consequence, and not this law, we are acting on only a limited number of causes of the overall grey economy, so this law that we are discussing today. So we did not say that we would be against this law and it is the right of the legislator to do so or to propose it, we are merely expressing doubts about the effects or disproportionateness between expectations and possible effects. And the last thing I wanted to say to you is to answer my question, is it even possible, under the conditions of crisis and depression, to deal heavily with the gray economy? Is that... I mean, any time must be convenient, but is that the best time? I'm interested in your opinion here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73673	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73674	Thank you very much. I'll start at the end. Not if possible, it is not possible to reduce the grey economy under recession conditions. It is never necessary to eliminate the gray economy as in the conditions of recession, then it is necessary and of course it can be done. As for building a system, of course it takes building a system, so this is one wheel in building a system. He can't if we go in the worst version, he can't harm anything he can just use, so there's no reason not to support him. Because anything else if you don't support it's politics, not a reasonable decision. Therefore, this law does not harm anything, but it will only benefit. I'd just like to add one more thesis when we're just talking about unregistered workers in registered activities. A major problem of the grey economy that is allowed, and here I said legally that it is acting on unfair competition, which is allowed for companies not to have any employees. And I think it's necessary to react urgently and a minimum every company has to have one employee or not. Because what else is happening to us? That the richest people in the state who don't have any work experience, days of work, neither have salaries, nor pay contributions, but from the share in dividends and profits they're the richest. And please, Madam Secretary of State, take these and give an urgent order to the State Inspectorate to take action when he's been waiting months and years to do nothing. This is a shame for Croatians to act like this by some secret organizations, some unregistered associations, some secret societies, there are no persons or anything and still threaten when they are called. Try calling them and you'll see how they treat you, just ask who they're talking to, I'll give...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73675	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. This will end today's session of the Assembly, tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 and 14th of the agenda, and this is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 811. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-18-0.u73676	The final proposal of the Law on the Prohibition and Prevention of Unregistered Activity was a second reading. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. The proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Prohibition and Prevention of Unregistered Activity. Please engage, please vote. The result? With 75 votes for, 2 abstentions, 27 against the proposed law.
