ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77009	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I am pleased today on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, together with Mrs Zdenko Pogarčić, the chair of the Legislative Office, to explain the draft law on the assessment of the effects of the regulations. As part of the Twinning project of the pre-accession IPA 2007 instrument entitled "Development of a legislative framework for the assessment of the effects of regulations" implemented by the Office for the Law of the Government of Croatia in cooperation with partners from the United Kingdom and the Republic of Estonia has been developed a draft law on the assessment of the effects of the rules. The draft was preceded by a detailed analysis of the existing state of the system of assessment of the effects of the regulations in the Republic of Croatia. This assessment is now partially arranged in a series of regulations which makes the system of impact assessment of regulations insufficiently coherent and sometimes incomplete. The impact assessment of the regulations is now carried out in accordance with certain provisions of a series of legislative and sublegislative acts, such as the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Budget Act, the Fiscal Responsibility Act, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the decision on the standard methodology for the assessment of the social impact, for the assessment of the environmental impact, for the assessment of the fiscal impact. In such a system, it was very demanding to establish a consistent and timely preparation of the impact assessment of the legislation in the legislative procedure. As a result of this approach, the regulation was rarely insufficiently under-quality legislative solutions, made it difficult to implement regulations and the need for more regular amendments to those rules. The business community and civil society have not always been sufficiently involved in the regulation process. Following an analysis of all the data collected by the authorities of the state administration, business community and civil society, and taking into account the good practice of the Member States of the European Union, this law proposes to amend the existing system of assessment of the effects of the regulations and the establishment of a new system which is complete and which clearly and transparently defines the procedure for assessing the effects of the regulations and basic provisions, the holders of the tasks with the accompanying methodology and guidelines for implementation. The assessment of the effects of the regulations shall determine three essential definitions. First, it's the decision-making process itself. Second, what precedes this adoption, which is an analysis of the collection of evidence and relevant data. And third, the results of the procedure. They are contained in the statement on the assessment of the effects of the regulations and serve as guidelines for selecting the best solution for the adoption of the rules or, if that assessment is such, that in order to take non-normal activities and measures are followed by another solution. The impact assessment of the regulations shall analyse the positive and negative effects of regulations on the economy, including financial impacts, on the area of social care, the area of environmental protection with a view to fiscal impact, together with public consultation and specific target groups concerned. All the positive and negative effects of the regulations have been demonstrated and visible in the statement of assessment of the effects of the regulations following the draft law as the final act. The process itself of assessing the effects of the regulations under the law is carried out in six steps. They're next. So the first is the previous analysis of the existing situation which is intended to be regulated by the regulation. The second is a public consultation on the draft statement on the assessment of the effects of the regulations. The third is to obtain the opinion of the authorities responsible for the economy, social care and environmental protection. Fourth, making rules and proposals for statements on the assessment of the effects of the rules. The fifth, public debate on the regulation and the proposal for a statement on the assessment of the effects of the rules, and the sixth reference of the rules and proposals for statements on the assessment of the effects of the regulations on the consent of the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of the agreed-on procedure of adoption to the authorities of the Government. The significant paper introduced by the law is the adoption of an annual plan of normative activities, which will plan and process the impact assessment of the rules adopted by the government in the last quarter of the current year for the following year. The proposal for a regulation plan must be based on an ex ante assessment of the possible effects of the rules. The previous evaluation shall be carried out by the expert legislator for all regulations covering the draft legislative normative activities and regulations set out in the plan to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union. The ex ante assessment shall be made on the basis of the criteria according to the patterns to be specified in the Regulation. The law stipulates that these actions will necessarily inform the public for at least 15 days from 1 to 31 September of the current year for the following year. The law also prescribes exceptional obligations to carry out the process of assessing the impact of the regulations on the basis of the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the decision and conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Following that subject-matter assessment, rules may be laid down in an emergency procedure, a law already in force in the Republic of Croatia of that Regulation, or a regulation as implementing rules of law, whether they are in force or in force. The proposal also respects the application of the code of consultation with the interested public in decision-making, other regulations and acts as a model of involvement in the consultation of all stakeholders in the broadest sense of the word. Of course, it is referred to trade unions, employers' associations, academic community representatives, chambers, civil society organisations and citizens and other legal persons who perform public service or which may be affected by a certain regulation. I would like to stress that this law was drawn up by an appropriate initial impact assessment procedure, respecting all informal consultations with the above mentioned stakeholders, after which a statement on the assessment of the effects of the rules was made and, with the draft proposal for a law, put into consideration and debate of the public for 30 days. During the debate, consultation with stakeholders on the round table was also held and all comments and proposals were considered and were properly incorporated into the text of the proposal for this law. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the law sets new challenges and tasks before professional law holders in a way that encourages them to effectively monitor the implementation of regulations through an analysis of the situation in the impact assessment process, the annual planning of normative activities and the planning of the procedures for assessing the effects of the regulations relating to each regulation, the mandatory consideration of possible non-normalial and multi-options of normative solutions in the making of the rules, as well as the further development of administrative and institutional capacities. The new challenges are also set before the Legislative Office, which among other things becomes a co-ordination body for the system of assessment of the effects of the regulations, competent for professional training and training in the field of the impact assessment of the effects of the rules of the civil servants as well as in the area of regulation. He is the expert institution of the creation of a strategy, action plan and reports and sublegal acts proposed by the Government, which are necessary for the full implementation of the law. The entry into force of this law is provided for on 1 January 2012. I note that the IPA project is already conducting intensive education of civil servants as well as representatives of the public in the field of assessing the effects of the regulations that will last until June 2012 in order to enable their effective implementation through previous and timely preparation and education of the addressbook. Finally, I would like to point out once again the most important advantages of this new system that is before you today. A detailed, comprehensive and transparent system of assessment of the effects of the regulations, the introduction of the obligation of annual planning of normative activities, the law establishing the obligations of consultation under the public consultation code, the law establishing the obligation of systematic vocational training and the training of civil servants in the process of assessing the effects of the regulations and their production. A new professional challenge, incentives for the work and effectiveness of the central authorities of the State Administration as expert holders of regulations and competent authorities and the Office for the Law of the Government as a coordinating body. It will increase transparency of the regulation process and allow for greater participation of citizens in the legislative process. By establishing the proposed law, a new system of assessment of the effects of the regulations, with respect to the good practice of EU member states, introduces a new instrument that represents a qualitative step in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, this new system of assessment of the effects of the regulations opens up legal opportunities to establish what is today called smarter legislation. It is such legislation that makes fewer laws and regulations, making them clearer, fairer and more proportionate to needs and interests with minimal negative effects and costs for the business sector. Such legislation will contribute to more effective internal development and facilitate the entry of the Republic of Croatia into a competitive EU market. Following the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt this proposal for the Law on the Assessment of the Impact of Regulations. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for this opening clarification.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77010	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77011	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs and respected state secretaries with our associates today, we are discussing the proposal of the Law on the Impact Assessment of Regulations. It came to our agenda, a regulation that I believe the vast majority of citizens who are even thinking about it assumes that it already exists. Because this proposal provides for procedures and procedures in the regulation process that should long ago be present in our normative system. Planning legislative activity, not improvisation as so far, predicting the effects of certain regulations, rather than the subsequent surprise of inefficient and expensive solutions, are just some of the effects that should be taken into account by the appropriate application of the procedure provided for in this proposal for a law. Therefore, when it comes to this legislative proposal, on the impact assessment of the rules, I will say at first that the SDP club will support this legislative proposal. This legislative proposal drawn up by the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a beneficiary of the IPA 2007 pre-accession EU Fund worth 1.1m euros for the Twinning project The development of the system of impact assessment of regulations is indeed something that is needed by our normative system. And this opportunity from the SDP club, we express hope that the new methodology for making and planning normative solutions will indeed live in practice. The impact assessment of the legal rules in our current normative system is also bad in a whole series of legislative and sublegal acts. However, it is this fragmentation of matter that leads to insufficient good use that does not give the desired effect, which has led to insufficient quality legal solutions, difficult enforcement of regulations, the need for frequent changes and additions of legal and sublegal acts. It is a matter that is often and consciously manipulated because in a nightmare, it is the easiest to hunt in a blurry, make frequent changes and complements, and insert into a system of unnecessary and harmful norms. The new methodology to be introduced by this law and its coherent and correct implementation should prevent such further practice. We are soon entering the elite club of EU member states, so we believe that we sincerely all want to systematise our system of standards according to the best practice of EU member states. We can freely say that making standards to date in Croatia has been campaigning and sloppy. Without adequate and necessary planning and without quality analysis, the existing system was upgraded without overthinking the impact of this on existing norms but also on the effects of the standards in real life. This led to a non-transparent system in which the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are particularly difficult to cope with, but also the professional public. And today on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament we have legislative proposals and proposals for amendments and addition of laws that are probably not necessary and that would not be necessary to reflect on the systematic and logical normation of an area of life in due time. One of the key improvements in practice so far is the insufficient involvement of the business community and the civil sector in the process of making and adopting regulations, and the interested public has not had enough time or too many ways to engage in consultation. This Legislative proposal brings a whole range of new tools for new and existing regulations. The methodology for assessing the impact of the regulations is already applied in the policy-making phase and should help improve dialogue with those to which the regulations apply. The most important objectives of this new procedure are to consider the possibility of a non-normal solution to consider a greater number of normative options and greater transparency in the process of proposing regulations by involving the interested public in the decision-making process itself on the need for regulation. This proposal lays down the procedure, the accompanying methodology and guidelines for implementing the impact assessment of the regulations, for the development of an annual normative activity plan covering activities which are not part of the legal property of the European Union which, as well as a member of the Union, will continue to be integrated into the system itself as the gains themselves will be modified, however, for each regulation proposed by the annual plan and for the regulations provided for in future legislative harmonisation plans with the acquis will be subject to ex ante assessment. The previous assessment will include financial, economic, social impacts, possible effects on the health and social status of citizens, environmental and sustainable development. The impact assessment process itself is well-conceived by this proposal although it is fairly layered and foresees, above all, an analysis of the existing real and normative state, which is planned to be regulated by the regulation. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. These are all things that we think are normal but so far have not been systematically foreseen. The procedure further provides for expert advice which is extremely important and consultation with the interested public for a period of 30 days which we also consider a sufficient period of time and thus the proposals received will become part of the proposal for an assessment of the impact of the rules, which will contain the results of the procedure. The effect of this concrete bill proposal in practice should be quite revolutionary for our system. This regulation, if properly implemented, should lead to a greater order in the normative system and we sincerely hope in the SDP Club that it will bring the desired effects into the legislation. These effects should above all be final annual planning of normative activities, planning procedures to assess the effects of the regulations relating to each regulation, effective monitoring of the implementation of the regulations, mandatory consideration of possible non-normal and more variations of normative solutions when making the rules, further development of the system of impact assessment of regulations through the education of civil servants, which is what is most important that they should be very well qualified to implement this whole process. The development of institutional capacity for procedures should also be implemented by this Act. This particular insistence on planning, monitoring of implementation, considering different solutions and training of officials is that we have so far missed and should lead to the ultimate objective of this bill, i.e. more efficient implementation and implementation of existing and future regulations, but also selecting optimal solutions that achieve the highest degree of economicity and purpose of the regulations. A special shorter assessment procedure is also envisaged for acts to be adopted in an emergency procedure and is prescribed for them to make an ex ante assessment according to the prescribed form. In the SDP Club, we hope that this will lead to a smaller number of ad hoc solutions and less improvisation during future entry into the normative system. By passing laws and regulations by emergency procedure, we have brought the system of standards into an untransparent and inefficient state that causes difficulties in normal economic and other life processes. Any regulation subject to an assessment in accordance with the procedure provided for in this legislative proposal shall contain a final statement on the assessment of the impact of the rules before reference in the procedure... on the Government. It reminds us of today's compliance tables which, for our legislation with the legal acquis of the European Union, follow the regulations that bear that mark P.Z.E. but remains unclear whether these statements of impact assessment will reach the Croatian Assembly so that future representatives can have insight into these statements and better discuss and judge certain normative solutions. It remains unclear what will happen to regulations that are not proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we believe that this is not a proposal for this law, but it should somehow be regulated by some other act, or what will happen to the proposals of the regulations proposed by some other constitution and the laws of the proposed promoters. It would be good to provide for such proposals to assess their potential effects. Finally, when we talk about this bill, it should certainly be noted that here, in the proposal itself, when the reasons for the adoption of the emergency procedure are stated, there is a benign deception. The reasons for the emergency procedure are referred to in Article 161. The Rules of Procedure in the work of the Croatian Parliament, which, as we know, states that legal proposals are being put in place under the urgent procedure, which harmonize our legislation with the acquis and the legal property of the European Union. However, this Parliament has brought our legislation into line with almost 500 different laws in its long-standing practice and has learned to comply with the acquis of the European Union. Acquis certainly does not exist in the area of regulation because each country regulates it according to its tradition and legislative practice, so this bill cannot be seen as a compliance with the acquis, nor should it bear the label P.Z.E. because it is not. This is about harmonising with the best practice of member states, which is something else entirely, and we believe that the proposings themselves and the secretary of state present here in the House of Commons know that. It is visible from the very compliance table set out in the attached proposal here that there is no legal harmonisation with the sources of EU law but only with the best practice of Member States. Which is good, but it's not harmonisation. Fortunately, this deception will not lead to damage because it is a process and a regulation that is positive, but it has been in the work of this high house a great deal of proposals that are under cover of compliance with EU rights sources urgated and pushed into our normative system and that have caused damage and chaos that we have today. Many times, by raping most under the cover of compliance with the acquis, we have passed amendments to laws that, by harmonising with, for example, 100 articles of hypothetical amendments and the addition of a law, one or two provisions would be a right to comply with the acquis, and the other 99 or 98 articles would be original Croatian legislative patents that were often harmful and in conflict with normative practice in our country, and sometimes in conflict with our Constitution as well as in conflict with our Constitution, for example, the recently adopted Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest which is as well pushed as P.Z.E.E. However, regardless of the fact that this bill carries this P.Z.E. mark unwarrantedly. The SDP club will support this proposal because we still consider it necessary, good and useful, and in the proposed regulation of the impact assessment of the regulations and their planning we do not find any major objections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77012	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77013	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished State Secretary, distinguished Head of the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very beginning, of course, I'm going to point out to the HDZ Club that supports this bill. Therefore, the impact assessment of the rules is a decision-making process based on evidence and relevant data collected which will serve as guidelines for selecting the best solution for the regulation and for taking normative activities and measures. It is from this definition that we now have as a legal definition that we see what this is really about, or what all the other provisions of this law are based on, that are actually working out this basic definition. The impact assessment of the regulations analyses the positive and negative effects of regulations in the area of the economy, including financial impacts, the area of social care, the area of environmental protection, with a view to fiscal impact, while consulting the public and the public concerned. It is this law that regulates the procedure for assessing the effects of the regulations, hence the documents for assessing the effects of the regulations, the way of annual planning of normative activities, the bodies responsible for assessing the effects of the regulations, the way of consultation with the public and the interested public in this process, the obligation of professional training and training relating to impact assessment, the making of regulations and other issues related to this. However, it would be wrong of course to conclude that we in our legal system have not yet had an assessment of the effects of the regulations. However, it is now in one place, it is now comprehensive, systematized by this very legislative proposal, and perhaps it is also necessary to mention the regulations that are now in force and that regulate this matter. So, first of all, it is the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, then the decision on the standard methodology for assessing the social impact, which is the decision on the standard methodology for assessing the environmental impact, and that is the decision on the standard methodology for assessing the fiscal impact, and that is the Regulation on the Law of Law, so there is the Budget Act, the Fiscal Responsibility Act. All these regulations, which directly, in fact, regulate matter. By means of this law, we will now have, in one place, a legally developed, precise and defined these very important issues, issues of how laws are passed or what everything should be respected in terms of procedures when accessing or adopting new laws that enter into our legal system. Therefore, in the present system, it was difficult to establish a consistent and timely application of the impact assessment of the rules in the legislative procedure in relation to the above. And this should perhaps be underlined here, the Ministry of Finance, which has established consistent implementation of the fiscal impact procedures on the state budget, already according to the standard methodology for the assessment of fiscal impact, which will continue in the future and not apply to this law. In the current system, the business community and the civil sector have often not been sufficiently involved in the regulation process. Therefore, following an analysis of the existing state of affairs of the regulation system, the collection of data by the state administration, the business community and the civil sector, and taking into account the good practice of the EU Member States, the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as an expert law-making holder in this regard and has joined the draft draft law on the impact assessment of the rules proposed by the new system which clearly determines the system of impact assessment of the rules and the basic provisions of the regulation process, together with the accompanying methodology and guidelines for implementation. I think it is very important to point out when we talk about this bill, of course, everything in terms of supporting this bill, so to highlight the consequences that will result from the adoption of this law or what we expect when this law comes into force, which will happen in terms of this definition of how rules are adopted. In the first instance, it is necessary to highlight the annual planning of normative activities and the planning of the assessment of the effects of the regulations. 2. effective monitoring of the implementation of the regulations through an analysis of the state of play in the impact assessment process., 3. mandatory consideration of non-normal and multiple variants of normative solutions when making the rules. Furthermore, further development of the system of assessment of the impact of the regulations and, finally, should be highlighted, so the education of officials in the authorities of the administration's administration for the implementation of the impact assessment system of the regulations will be the basis for the sustainability of the new system. The process of assessing the impact of the regulations as provided for by this law, we have had the opportunity to hear this, but I think it is necessary to repeat this in the opening explanation itself, would take place or take place in 6 steps involving initial activities to draw up draft statements on the impact assessment of the process, to consult the public on the draft statement proposal, to collect the opinion of the competent authorities on the draft statement proposal, and then to draw up the rules and proposals for statements followed by a public debate. And finally, to refer the regulations and proposals of the statement in the adoption procedure. The same important aspect of the law is the introduction of the annual planning of legislative activities preceding that procedure. In September each year, the professional legislator shall establish a draft regulation plan, which is subsequently included in the annual plan of normative activities, and within this proposal shall propose the rules for which the impact assessment procedure should be carried out. The proposal for a draft regulation must be based on an ex ante assessment of the possible effects of the regulations to be implemented on all the regulations covered by the Standard Activities Plan in the field of Croatian legislation and for the regulations set out in the plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union. All participants of this process, therefore the business community through their chambers, NGOs, union representatives and the academic community through a public debate, supported the adoption of this law as it enables the development of a system that will ensure transparency and legislation of the process, the possibility of participation of the interested public, the planning of legislative activities at the annual level as a matter of reasonable time by the professional holder. An effective regulation impact assessment system will lead to fair and proportionate regulation with a minimum of negative effects and costs for the business sector while allowing citizens to participate in the legislative process, as well as an insight into the decision-making process which is now or through a proposal for this law is more transparent. The introduction of a standardised methodology and techniques to assess the effects of regulations in the legislative process will improve the writing and adoption of the rules, and the administrative process will be simplified which will contribute to effective development and facilitate Croatia's entry into the competitive market of the European Union. Finally, in terms of supporting this bill, I think the following should be pointed out. So a smaller number of regulations that will be clearer, more efficient and in a simpler or simpler way to regulate those areas or areas of life that want to be regulated by writing certain laws, i.e. by proposing and adopting legislation. Secondly, I think that this should be particularly underlined here, i.e. more legal certainty, because when we have a forest of regulations, when we have frequent amendments and additions, there is not only non-compliance in terms of the concrete application of the relevant legal texts, but there is indeed legal uncertainty and as it is said for citizens, but also for those who need to apply these laws and call for certain laws in the context of regulation or regulation of certain areas of life. And the third thing, easier application of the law, so it's really easier to apply the law. All of these three things, so when we put them on a pile, I think they're very important, I think we should highlight them, and I think that the frequent amendments and additions of the law will be reduced to the least possible measure, we'll avoid all those huge misunderstandings and problems that arise from so often times and the inability to adequately produce refined texts as one whole of the laws. And I am, of course, withdrawing that once again, by means of this methodology, the basis of this law will ultimately lead to better regulation, better quality regulations and greater legal certainty, and in this sense the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community absolutely supports these legal solutions, i.e. the proposed law, the Law on the Assessment of the Impact of Regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77014	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77015	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. It means what to say about this law, better say what to expect from this law. I categorically claim nothing. One such legal proposal, or rather these conditions mentioned here, simply that is not possible for gentlemen to function in Croatia. It can work in one England, but it can't work in Croatia. This can work in Denmark, it cannot work in Croatia. This can work in one Canada, well it is not a member of the European Union, but cannot be in Croatia. In one Liechtenstein can, in Croatia simply can't. And why can such a legal proposal simply bear the title on the impact assessment of the rules not work in Croatia? Great Britain may, at an annual level, bring, adopt 40 legal texts, have 40 interventions in individual laws. Croatia, behind me is the President of the Parliament, he knows for sure, at the annual level of 400 laws, brother to brother. In one Denmark, the same thing can work, maybe at an annual level they adopt 40 legislative proposals, more specifically these interventions into laws, and we have almost 400 laws. See for yourself the consolidated agenda for the 12th, 13, 14th and 15th of July where we will certainly vote all day long only on these draft laws. The government proposes 22 laws, 22 legal texts. The opposition proposes from points 50 to 74 or 73, it doesn't matter, there are still some reports, the same 20 legislative proposals. Between this and point 74, we have 30 reports, appointments, Mandate-Immunity Commission reports, another person's immunity is removed, etc., etc. Once again, gentlemen, I'd like it to work but it won't work, and on the other hand, it'll cost us the same nastyly expensive price. Today, I read in some newspapers that this Office for Helping Immigrants spend more on an annual basis than it channels under quotes to citizens of Croatian origin in Bosnia and Herzegovina. How much is this going to cost at this point no one knows. I will first quote here some parts of this Law on the Impact Assessment of Regulations, and here it is first said that the Office for the Legislatives of the Government of Croatia is the beneficiary of the IPA 2007 pre-accession European Union fund worth 1.1m euros for the twing project development of the system of impact assessment of regulations. So it is said here that the objectives of the new system of impact assessment of regulations are in particular to consider proposals for possible non-normalistic solutions, and then to encourage the cooperation of inter-resorship coordination of professional lawmakers to make it easier and faster to integrate common objectives, and to strengthen the transparency of the proposal, etc., until the consequences resulting from this law. These are annual planning of normative activity, effective monitoring of the implementation of the regulations through an analysis of the situation. It is then mandatory to consider possible non-normal and more variants of normative solutions when making the rules, etc. etc. So the emphasis is clear on the impact assessment of these regulations. On the other hand, what is the basic intention or intention of any regulation so far? At least in the last eight or I don't know how many years. How to help, meaning the team in power, how to help their partners? You don't need to analyze them, you don't need to spend resources to make that clear. Here are just a few examples now that I don't know at which point of the agenda nine or ten and that we're building this law and that we're more specifically saying that the flats of large tourist houses are being set up. And what will happen after those tycoons for zero kuna come into possession of these companies. We'll unload those apartments, and you know how many apartments there are only one Poreč Riviera and only in Poreč. Not in Rapco, not yet in Dubrovnik. Over 1,400. How many apartments has one Blue Lagoon only in Poreč? 505. Anita from Vrsar, so there's about 380 plus 900 teams or guys from Rovinj have in Rovinj, etc. etc. Now I'm not gonna tell you what's gonna happen if we go that way. But that's just it. It's actually a message from that law. There's no need to analyze it. We know you've simply agreed with these individuals how to meet them. Or this latest activity about challenging municipalities in Istria ownership of tourist land that they have acquired under quotes in longstanding court proceedings. The intention is again to enable tycoons who have never paid one kuna for tourist land in 2011 to do so in the future. And here are the meanings of your intentions in keeping the monopoly, etc. I won't talk. So every law clearly has its intentions, not to mention the effect of these laws. For example, Article 2 of the Act states that the impact assessment is the procedure for making decisions on the rules on the basis of evidence and collected relevant data, etc. etc. On page 6, I do not know whether I will even quote the objectives of the impact assessment of the regulations, where specific objectives of the impact assessment are said to encourage cooperation and cross-resor coordination, strengthening the transparency of the proposings, etc. etc. I claim that so far, the only intention of every law was to help those groups that relate to a political team in power. Why is that? Well, maybe that's the point we should talk about. There are two reasons why it allows. It is the first electoral model in the Republic of Croatia. If MPs were elected directly, there would be no more gentlemen adapting to party peaks. If it were, it would be much less. Today, MPs are mostly the majority. It was also when the IDS in power functioned almost like machines. We vote or vote, we raise our hands, we see that something's wrong, but we don't give a shit. The only thing that cares is how to position yourself on which list. For another reason, this Law speaks in three, four bodies that should all be coordinated which should now be re-formed. I claim that this proposal further strengthens the executive power. The regulations by the very definition of the law, this bill, are clear laws. And you see, in this legal text, not a single word is mentioned in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. According to this proposal, gentlemen, we're proposing to you as if you don't need a Parliament. You need them under the authority of the association, but you can't function and you won't function if we adopt 400 laws at the annual level. You need commissions, you need chambers. You need religious communities. You need unions. But interestingly, you don't need the Parliament. I won't say, but this looks like someone I don't know crossed this Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. You gentlemen who are proposing this legislative proposal need only executive power. I know the executive authority never needs Parliament except as a voting machine. But the weaker parliament, the more powerful the executive power is. These are the opportunities in the country then I would say worse, not to say poorer, and Croatia is a good example when it comes to it. You're speaking in this proposal, so about the government, about the Legislative Office as if that body, I don't know, now I see it wants to block the future government. About the Parliament, nothing. You're talking about expert law-making associates, etc. And indeed the representative is an individual without anyone to list these laws with us. Every secretary of state has a machine behind them. Every MP is that man band. And you can't do it anymore, gentlemen, either way, it shouldn't be in the past. With this proposal, we will spend considerable resources on a body already de facto functioning, and it would be better to strengthen the autonomy of this Parliament by means of these funds. Why? Because eventually all legal proposals sooner or later, if nothing else needs to be confirmed by the MPs themselves. The truth is that MPs are asked as much as last year's snow or are held up to us just as much. But if we do not strengthen the position of the Parliament then only the Government will lead to the future country, and the Parliament will be a clear tower for the implementation of the interests of the team in power and those who maintain this dominant financial or non-performing position of the people in power. How much, as far as we're concerned, here's what I'm going to say we hold to power in the Republic of Croatia. I saw it yesterday. I've been watching it for 20 years coming up here. That's the word that shows the mockery of that A.G. Matosha street. That road under the Parliament, that facade. Or this road under the Parliament and that facade under the government. I mean, who's gonna hold onto a state that can't even get the nearest street to the Parliament or the government? Yesterday he saw some Japanese painting government and those cardboard windows under the government. I'm really asking that some money be found this summer and those two, three facades down under the government on A.G. Matosha Street just get settled. When ambassadors, when parties come to our clubs, the same thing is with the IDS club and other clubs, so I just can't believe it's constituency rooms. If Jacob Blazevi, if Milka Planinz hadn't what I know from the war reserves, they'd have found that furniture, we'd have to carry chairs from home. Now, in that context, we can talk when it's simply about this Parliament. ... It'd be good, it'd be good. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But when we're home, then we're working, so, on Sunday, I cut from 10:00 to 3:00 p.m. Maybe, maybe I'd be better off if I stayed. Let us now go to this article 22. But no, gentlemen, we can say whatever we want, but that's the problem. A lot of people just can't believe it. That the secretary of state and the secretary of state are coming with the car, that you park in that garage. That no one here has a phone, that no one has any swear for the team, that no one has absolutely nothing, nothing. I don't know what it's like in other parties, but that money we get per MP clearly spends it on administration, on some elections, etc. And I guess from that, that money neither you nor we in IDS just don't see it. What do you say, so who's this interested public? I've already spoken, chamber, unions, associations, associations that I know of employers, workers, unemployed, etc., religious communities, it's all taken care of here, but no one to mention in the word a Parliament that must ultimately all these laws and vote, only the Parliament with the Government can intervene with some amendment, and that's just the way it is. So once again, I'm claiming the funds that will be spent on these offices would be better spent on the functioning of this citizen representation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77016	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77017	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Damir Cain incorrectly said, I quote: "This law is inadmissible in Croatia". And that's what your incorrect statement or quote argues by the fact that we're in a past term or in this congregation, we're making too many laws, and that's even by a number of over 400. So I would remind the honourable representative of the fact that in 90% of the situations or cases these laws were conditional on the completion of pre-accession negotiations and the conclusion of negotiations for EU accession, almost directly and indirectly, many of them. That's why this normative activity this year, and in previous years it's been so pronounced. On the other hand, when you mention the Croatian Parliament and the role of the Croatian Parliament so it is not mentioned in this law, I will remind you that this law actually regulates the way the bill is drawn up. In more than 90% of the situation, the government is an authorised proponent of these laws. So this is about the normative activity and the government's proposal, which is authorized by the Croatian Parliament's promoter, and how that proposal should be made and made, so the draft bill of law, so when it comes to assembly benches, when we talk about it, when we accept it or do not accept it, that it is in that sense as much quality as possible. No one delegates either the role of MPs or the role of the Parliament in the sense of the adoption of legislation, but this law regulates the way in normative terms of draft legislation when the government is authorised to propose.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77018	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77019	Yes, because my representative does not correct any false allegations, he just confirms that more than 400 legal texts are adopted at the annual level. It is clear that the horror of these legal texts is to bring Croatia's legislation into line with EU rules, but the fact is that over 400 legal texts are being adopted that none of us are able to list, there are none of us are able to read all of them, but we are ultimately exposed to a simple situation that we have to decide and vote on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77020	An article that was injured was to be cited, and another claim by Agent Tomljanovic was that it was not only a regular legislative activity, it was conditional on some exceptional circumstances. That's what he claimed, right? We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in an individual debate is Mr. Zdenko Franic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77021	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and fellow MPs. Therefore, this proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation and provides a statement of compliance of this law with the acquis of the EU and of the legal acts of the Council of Europe. Here's a quote actually from the introduction of this representative. This is a very interesting comment in the introductory text and the assessment of the situation since we have satisfied all pre-accession negotiations, all chapters and we after we have made this huge legislative activity here we have remembered that it would be good to pass a law that would specify the way the bill was drawn up. So it's a direct confession that we've been working randomly so far,... , that the ministries worked through their proposals uncoordinated and often in haste. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a result, almost all the laws of this huge legislative activity that we have had in the last 4 years and even in 8 years are such that the vast majority of the law enters into force in early 2012, and now, lately, this has been reshaping and the laws become effective by the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. In other words, it is nice to remember to pass the Law on the assessment of the effects of the regulations that norms the way of the bill, but we should have done it far, far before. Well, I guess every normal state does an assessment of the state of the law and regulations affecting its system but not us, we do it later when we have already agreed our legislation with the European acquis and the acquis. In fact, we absolutely do not know what will happen at the beginning of 2012 or even better at the time of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union when all those strong laws come into interactions that are often and conflicting, I am talking about technical legislation, especially those relating to Chapter 1 so infrastructure of quality, normisation, accreditation, measurement, conformity testing and the like. So, in this legislative optimism, we went so far in this high house that we even changed some fundamental laws by an urgent procedure because the laws were European, so they came and went through only one reading. And when the government warned that it was inappropriate, there was obviously some mistake, amendments were made but no. The amendments come from the ranks of opposition parties, and the Government refuses to do so by default, and so we have passed laws that we can probably enter the Guinness Book of Records, because it is probably the only parliament in the world that changes physical laws or we pass some laws on environmental protection, for example, the law on excessive light pollution, so we condition that the maximum beam must go towards the universe, I guess that there are Martians and little green lights, so quite the opposite of what we should have done. But that's so, on the other hand, we come up with a couple of... situations that if things don't go well, people aren't able to tag a pen when they get to work because they say it's not prescribed by law. And it goes to such an absurdity that some professors in some schools refused to write the corrections of certain school assignments because it says nowhere that it has to be done. Well, that's absurd in this whole situation. Therefore, the assessment of the effects of the rules under this proposal of the law is carried out in accordance with certain provisions of the following regulations, the Rules of Procedure of the Government, the decision on patterns, the decision on the pattern of the standard methodology for the assessment of fiscal impact and thus closer. In the exposed system, it is difficult to establish a consistent and timely preparation of the impact assessment of the regulations in the legislative process in particular of such access to rules are often insufficient quality legal solutions, difficult enforcement and the need for more frequent changes to the rules, and I ask my colleagues not to correct me as a wrong quote because I quote a quote from the assessment of the situation. So it's a direct confession that we haven't done it before, that we've done it quickly and recklessly, and now we remember when we brought it all in and made it go to fix it. Well, it's a good thing the Ministry of Finance, which seems to have had at least one stalking procedure, so at least we haven't had any significant financial damage. However, I am again quoting the assessment of the situation. In the existing system, the business community and the civil sector are often not sufficiently involved in the enforcement process of public consultation in the process of making and adopting regulations, are not timely and leave little time for the public to participate in the quality of the advice on the adoption of new drafts. My comment, the profession is mostly not involved in the making of laws again I limit myself to technical laws, laws on nature protection and so on because professional associations simply don't get the latest draft laws which are therefore current. Example, Croatian Air Protection Association, Croatian Society for radiation protection and the like. It is not only thoughtless but also pathetic because it does not involve, therefore, the most competent part of the Croatian public that can contribute to the profession by its expertise in knowledge and skills. The truth is that almost all of these laws, not almost all of them, but all of the laws have got green light from the European Union, and he doesn't care how we edit our system is the main thing is that this is not contrary to their direct interests. So again, I quote this text, it says: "The goals of the new impact assessment system are to consider the proposal for possible normative solutions and to create a larger number of solutions in order to choose an optimal solution. Encouraging cooperation and cross-resorship coordination of professional legislators, simpler and faster integration of common objectives, strengthening transparency, contributing to development, public consultation, contributing to effective use of the resources of the state budget." So again, a direct confession that it hasn't all been done so far. For example, we recently passed a law and regulation on biodiesel that had such a complicated procedure of adopting the rules in question that in practice it is simply impossible to do this because a 6.7 ministry is involved in interlinking. And Mrs. Secretary of State couldn't answer the simple question, which is the consequence of that carbon law... Mr. Secretary of State, this government has never heard of a series of ISO 9,000 standards that are conducting the procedure. The procedure is democracy, democracy is procedure. This proposal is very optimistic, etc. but it lacks direct mechanisms, procedures, implementation. I recommend that the Government examine ISO 9000, include this steering tool in its activities. In addition, the government itself has made its own recommendation, an order for the ministries to be certified according to ISO 9,000. And to finish, I'm going to renegotiate this bill because it's better than nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77022	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77023	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President. So despite the request of an esteemed colleague that we do not correct him, I will correct him when he said two or three times that the laws were passed thoughtlessly and that when the Government proposed the laws, she did not therefore consider what the bill would prescribe. Dear colleague, you yourself have read from an explanation which is actually a problem. That this matter has so far been governed by a whole series of decisions, rules, and that it is essentially in the ultimate line of this law that it is systematized in one place and becomes a legal text, therefore a commitment, and that this in the end would be regulated by a sensitive area precisely and in fact arranged. So it's not about the thoughtlessness of regulation, it's about the systematicization of one matter that's going to be done in a better way. And you yourself mentioned the example of the Ministry of Finance that so far had in this method absolutely these solutions that we have in this law when assessing the impact of certain financial regulations on the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77024	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Slavko Linic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77025	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will support the proposed law because I think it has a good intention. But I'm also going to say that we don't believe that in practice we're going to change something important, I don't believe. And that's what we all have to worry about. Why we're not in a position to apply a good law. Well, let's just say it bothers me that the law is an emergency procedure, because basically when we pass a law like this, there's no law by emergency procedure anymore. And the law itself is an emergency procedure. It's been applied since 12 months and didn't need an emergency procedure. I can accept that it is necessary to invest specifically in the Office of Law because it needs to be trained. And that government can do with first reading of the law and first reading. And it is evident that really when we talk about the legal procedure we need to know what the draft law is, what it is, professional service, the work of professional services, which is the government's decision and then we are essentially coming to the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the bill itself, which goes into emergency procedure, is already contrary to the intention of this law itself. Secondly, whether in the next three months we can prepare the Legislative Office not to be a form, but to really be teamed up to make an impact assessment. I think the Legislative Office so far is an office where most legal persons, lawyers, people who know constitutional principles, the Constitution, the relationship between the constitution of a law that knows the logic of some law, some sort of sequence, and they keep an eye on the legal form of the law. We have to make a completely different team now. There must be strong ones, I would say economic experts, environmental experts, and I don't know industrial norms, etc. Therefore, the question remains whether we are able to do so, especially if we see that the bill very clearly says there is no cost in 2011 so we will not change anything important in the Law Office in 2011 if there is no money nor can we train, nor will we prepare people to really do a proper assessment of the effects of certain laws that come before us. And indeed, as Parliamentarians, we must say that we do not agree with Article 22. Article 22 speaks of a professional lawmaker to conduct a public hearing between 15 and 30 days. Well, it can't be a public debate. These may be consultations with interested parties. But do we know what a public debate is? First reading of the law is a public debate. This is considered a public debate, where parliamentary committees really need to carry out broad discussions with interested parties. However, if we still have an expert assessment of these effects, each interested party will not enter into the provisions of an article of the law but rather professional assessments, whether there will be effects, whether there will be no negative nights. However, it is only now that the public debate, when it comes to first reading, can get wider publicity, where people can manifest themselves precisely about the effect of the law on individual interest groups in our society. Therefore, I believe that this public debate should be given importance, but it should be present through parliamentary debate, through which I would say the face-to-face of those who have drawn up the law, who have also made an impact assessment with stakeholders of individual groups with interested associations in the Republic of Croatia and, of course, before parliamentary committees who should then also direct the echoes and public debates in some way to submit proposals to the Commission in order to have a quality second reading. Therefore, I am afraid of good intentions without greater effects, without being able to have greater effects already in 2012. And I think that some of these proposals that I don't know if there's any point in today's debate should still be made, today we have to write out proposals for amendments that will be accepted in a hurry or not accepted, and obviously it shouldn't have been quick about this reading. For example, here at the 5th, the 6th point, we have the Credit Union Act. It hasn't been two years since we brought him where we took power from the credit unions for payment traffic, and we've interpreted it as a compliance with Europe. Now we're passing the law and we're coming back. What do you think that's possible, it's not? In two years, there's no interest at all. There's no way we're gonna get him back what we had two years ago. Did the legislator who has now proposed this text even assess what is happening and what is the purpose of this law? It comes back to where we basically destroyed everything two years ago, and all in order to comply with the European Union. It is evident that such a law was so that we could talk far more seriously, that we could see what will be the effects, try to assess whether it is necessary or not, and what policy is the government that acts in this way. In two years of important, important differences in the bill only shows that we are wandering a lot, doing harm to the economy, to those who invest in their capital, and simply to separate them from any entrepreneurial activity. According to this good law, we have not prepared it and I am afraid that nothing important will change because we have not provided enough debate in Parliament at the very least. Let us be assured, this procedure will require more time to prepare a legal proposal. You know what that means, all the laws in the Parliament will be under emergency procedure. So let us try to think about changing practice and changing behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77026	Thank you. At 10:15, it's been 10 minutes. We have one replica, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77027	Thank you very much. My colleague Linic, I decided on a replica for the simple reason that I agree with one part of your debate and actually allow you to say the rest too. So, we don't need to view this law as an only child, we need to view it as an upgrade to the fiscal impact assessment, so that's the first step where every legislator at the time of the bill's proposal has to make an assessment of the fiscal impact in plus or minus, depending on which category the law is in. Here about assessing the impact of the regulations, so you don't need to team up in the Legislative Office now another megatium that will control whoever passes the legislation. That's what a lawman should do. We today have great legal solutions that unfortunately do not apply in everyday life. Take an example of the OIB. Already at this point, citizens can get practically if they're looking for something, that clerk can, through what's being established at this point, so he's not the only one who's not the High Court of Commerce and the Land Book, he can pull all the data to stop citizens from actually making him run at 10 or 20 doors. But every one that has been implemented in that law, so who has participated and is significant, as one who must participate in that law, must check with him at what level the application of that law is. And if we start acting this way then the Office of Law doesn't need a megatilla that will control it, but those who are making legal changes or new laws are obliged to control it, then we have a system that works. And as far as credit unions are concerned, you know the negotiations, the EU directives, and otherwise, as far as payment traffic is concerned, we may have all gone too early in some proceedings, perhaps we should have stayed in ZAP or FINA, perhaps today the system of payment traffic, as well as the number of unpaid accounts would have been much smaller. But I'm saying, pulling a certain law out of the context of time and space and putting it like this seems to be quite different. But I repeat, I don't think this law is going towards establishing some kind of megatilla in the Law Office, but it's going to force those who are legislators to follow the law continuously because just passing the law doesn't mean anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77028	Mr. Representative Slavko Linic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77029	I agree with my colleague Shuker that the issue is now what we will do with the body and this special body that is clearly intended to be organised under the Legislative Office. Let's remember, a year ago, the government had an impact assessment office, it had it, it formed it, and it seemed to me it didn't work for six months and it disbanded it. And I also agree that the rightful holder of the law and the professional promoter should in their arguments more turn to assessing the effects of the law. At that time, as Assembly representatives, we would have far more good reasons than any law, and we would be able to discuss these assessments in great length. Therefore, let us try to understand that the activity relating to transport, the activity relating to construction, the management of spatial plans is so different that it will indeed be a megatilla at the Law Office if we want experts who will have to assess the effects of one regulation in the domain of spatial order, from the domains of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links or, say, tourism, agriculture. So we realize that such experts, such teams will not be able to get to the Law Office, and they will not be able to make quality assessments because surely these assessments should be an integral part of the proposings, I apologize to the legislator or the professional holder and that he is essentially making that part, and then we could give him far more in the first reading, far more in the public discussion of such assessments as should be given by the expert holder. So we're afraid that the procedure in law-making will really be delayed and the procedure in adoption will be shortened. That should be very, very careful.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77030	Thank you. And last in an individual discussion, Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77031	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear proposings, colleagues and fellow MPs. I must say that I am surprised by the proposal of this law and I am a little concerned about the ignorance that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has shown by proposing such a law at all. Dear Secretary of State, tell our Government that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has been responsible for proposing and implementing the law for 10 years, so by amending the Constitution of 2000. Therefore, the Government of the Republic, according to the current Constitution, corresponds to the Croatian Assembly to analyse the effects of the law, to monitor the effects, to analyse and return to propose to us on the basis of this law. And now ten years later, the government is offering us some normative optimism, and it says that we can arrange for her to follow it. So let the Government bring the Rules of Procedure or the regulations or anything and arrange for itself to come up with an analysis of the situation for which it is responsible to follow the Croatian Constitution. But for the sake of credibility and the public in Article 113 of the Croatian Constitution, I must read this by the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposing laws and other acts to the Croatian Parliament, caring about the implementation of laws and other decisions of the Croatian Parliament, caring about economic development, directing the action and development of public services, so the state administration and asking them to give it an analysis of the conditions for which they were established. Does the Government mean by this law that it is no longer responsible for the Croatian Parliament? In Article 14 of the proposed law, it dubs us, so it tells us about the impact assessment of the legislation in the Republic of Croatia as if it were the body of the Croatian Parliament, not the government of the Republic of Croatia. The government can establish three Legislative Offices. She remains only responsible for the bill she made. And please do not seduce the Croatian public at the end of the term of office. It is not possible to exclude the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia while this is the constitutional order. It's not possible. Therefore, Article 14 exclusively states that the impact assessment should therefore legally regulate the matter of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia and thus exclude the Government from responsibility. That's not possible. Article 14 of the proposed law says the Law Office is responsible for assessing the effects of the regulations in Croatia. They could add the full name Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, professional legislators. And who, who's the expert lawmaker? Someone who's not in the government's jurisdiction? They're Ministry experts. So the government doesn't know there's a law on state administration and a law on the organisation of ministries and other organisations and the Government Act. There's a government law. In such a state of affairs, the Government offers us as a rule that we pass the law. It's not possible. We can do whatever we want, but it's not a system. It's not a system. Well, my people, that's why the ministries were founded to monitor the situation in their area, and that's why the Constitution said the minister was responsible for the area for which he was in charge, and that's why we have the Croatian Parliament. The second thing is that we have introduced in practice, so the Prime Minister can change the minister as a gypsum of horses, because we have never answered, we have asked the question of how responsible this minister is and that we resolve him or protect him. Never before, and there have been such shifts when he's here, they haven't even talked about the shift or the resolution, but President of the Parliament has signed the decision as if it had already been adopted. Only by appointing, by a fact, would the minister be relieved. So we want to do something but we don't know what. True, since the situation is changing, that's why I said the current situation has been worth since 2000. I'm doing this division, of course, because until then it was the presidential system, so we had the government's responsibility differently defined, formulated. However, the truth now we have a new circumstance once again with the Constitution established that we will become full members of the European Union, so responsibility will be shared, the different responsibilities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of the Croatian Parliament, given that we have adopted the rules that require us to join the European Union and change the law, i.e. the Constitution as the highest act, and we have established that we will accept European laws. So, post or sooner give instructions to the Government of the Republic of Croatia than they are accepted in the European Parliament. For this reason, I must say once again, instead of having the government accept serious reforms in the state administration, that the addiction, political dependence of the state administration should be maximumed, freed and the state administration and experts really fit for the expertise of the proposal to the Croatian Government, and it would be responsible for the political proposal of its act, law, etc. We tried to cloud it all so none of us knew what anyone was responsible for. I propose that the parliamentary service be strengthened immediately, so experts in the Assembly of various profiles, because in full European Union membership, we will have to pass some laws by an even faster procedure than we are doing now. Because the European Union procedure will not wait entirely for Croatia. They have very precise... The adoption of regulations and acts will be very important so that individual Assembly bodies can really study the material before they are instructed to adopt it into the Croatian Parliament, not waiting for it to ferment in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that all experts from the Government of the Republic of Croatia come to the Croatian Parliament and that procedure simply has its own itinerer, flow, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, let me just say it in the end. Instead of hard work, we are offered a legal camel. It's a law that doesn't decide anything, anything except it's just messing with us, it's screwing with us. There is a constitution, there is a constitutional position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there is a law on state administration, there is a law on the organisation of ministries and other administrative bodies, and it is all there and it is even more precise than it is here. And the government should only have coordinators, the signatures of those who have drawn up professionally and responsible for the proposal of material, analysis of the situation and even in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament says the assessment of the situation must contain a proposal for an act that comes to the Croatian Parliament. That hasn't changed. Unfortunately, there was also responsibility for expertise, it was thrown out I don't know when from the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. So back to responsibility, it's the only way to try to be correct with each other, not to transfer at the end of the term, that responsibility to the Office of Law or others because it's not correct. True, the situation forced us to, we were aware, and we gave in to greater interest. Bringing the law on the current tape out of the need to join the EU would now have to ask the government how much it will cost us. That is what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are looking for, because it is why they are also asking the public to see the end of the negotiations and that we have negotiated it. It's got to be in the law. Let's be correct with the citizens, let's make it public, let's say the price of going in from what we can read now is so big, the profit is so big, the legal consequences are like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77032	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77033	I agree with you, Mr. Leco, that it would be better to discuss strengthening the position of the Parliament, not that quasadian body. We MPs must say clearly not marginalising the Parliament. I'm not going to say that I'm not even going to agree with your claim that this is a legal camel, I'm simply going to say that we are simply trying rabbits in this country. I categorically claim, as I used to say, that a law like this in Croatia is inconclusive. In the UK, which makes 40 laws at year level, in one Denmark, in one Luxembourg with 40 laws, yes. In Croatia, you just don't. A moment ago, Mr Linic spoke about individual bodies that must gather here so that such a legal proposal could be referred to the procedure. We have, I forgot to speak before in the debate, and the problem of intellectual services when passing laws. Imagine, the state at the annual salary level and over 100 million kuna for these services. More, more than the cost of this Parliament, without knowing who these institutions and individuals are in those institutions that are getting that money. We have the State's Attorney's Office, let him agree to those contracts, clearly that would, that's extreme, I think that's how to look at their function, maybe reduce the cost of detention, maybe there wouldn't be any of these scandals when they get out of these detentions, etc. Later, people are released after their careers are destroyed, their lives and so on. But I now argue with this will simply be a system paralysis because it will not be possible to gather 400 legal proposals that we adopt in a year all those interested in a single legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77034	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77035	Thank you so much, colleague Cain. You gave me a chance to make a suggestion. Come on, let's ignore the current past, let's focus on what our obligation is under Article 144. The Constitution of the I would at least like to put it on the agenda, namely the Croatian Parliament is taking part in a European legislative process in line with the EU-based contracts. Let's see how we participate in this legislative process as a Croatian Parliament, as representatives of Croatian citizens. And the next thing I want to point out, listen, I said something about this, the Government of the Republic of Croatia reports the Croatian Parliament on proposals for legal regulations and decisions in which it participates in EU institutions. The Croatian Parliament can draw conclusions on these proposals on the basis of which the government operates in EU institutions. So that is why I said let us now reorganise within the Croatian Parliament in order to be prepared to participate in the creation of legislation in the EU. It is simply in the way we are now organised that we will not respond to the task set by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and which the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are asking this Parliament to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77036	Thank you. Replica, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77037	Thank you very much. My colleague Leko, by quoting the Constitution you guess at the essence of things, you say one very simple thing, that the Government, and so this one, must be responsible for both the proposals and its effects. However, you ask very much of this government, because this government has been running from responsibility since the start of its mandate since 2004. It is declared responsible for everything, and responsible for nothing. And to paraphrasise Sartre – Paradise it is we, so the HDZ thinks, hell it is others. Proposing this law, therefore, which he would suggest, which would project the effects in advance, and what irony and parody that is. In the last three days, we will today discuss the fundamental laws of this country. So where's the seriousness? Where is the seriousness of applying the law when FINA illegally preys on people's entire assets although the law is clear that one third cannot be seized, or more, and that one third must remain human for life. So we have one normative here, so far we've had one normative stampede. Sometimes he was also justified, but so now to run from responsibility, so for the application of these laws, I think it's simply and absolutely not acceptable and to provide for this law. But something is very interesting, when a bad law is by citizens and when corruption is embedded in it because it favors a particular group that law looks at wonders, the administration is then determined to apply it immediately. And when some law is good, which we've all supported here, it remains a dead letter on paper. That's how the effects work. That's the effects of this government. He works at two speeds, when the law is directed against the citizens he works at the fifth speed, and when he's on the citizens' paper then he hasn't moved from place, and often he goes to reverse.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77038	Answer Mr. Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77039	My colleagues, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, let's use ourselves in our powers in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as the Croatian Parliament we ask the Government for, for example, I now state that we are being determined and analyzed and that the effects of these regulations, the Law on Golf Courses. What are the effects of this Law, how much they have contributed to Croatian better life, how much budget, how many individuals, etc. The law on agricultural land, the more culture is planted, the more it is processed, the more it contributes to the development of the Republic of Croatia, the law on the legalization of illegally built objects, let's see how much it brings, not to mention. So, we have the authority only to pretend that we don't have them because the organization is such that what the government proposes, I have to say the parliamentary majority of the vote without talking, that's how it was. Whether it was President Ivo Sanader or President Jadranka Kosor, that responsibility remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77040	There's been governments before. And black-and-white qualification isn't right. No matter what the matter is, and I think that at least before the end of our term of office, we should refrain from black white disqualifications and qualifications, and as far as Parliament's powers are concerned, he himself has prescribed them in his Rules of Procedure, Articles 111 and 112, and we do not mind applying our own decisions, because the Rules of Procedure is a small Constitution, discussing constitutional principles and precise in certain matters. So, as chairman, I ask MPs and MPs to refrain from black and white disqualifications or qualifications because it is simply not true. Now we have two more. Mr. Ivan Schuker's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77041	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, precisely on the trail of what Mrs. Antičević and her colleague Leko said when you held a pledoia about how the government was incompetent, 209. You had an opportunity to report on the implementation of the budget, given that the budget was set up on a programming principle, so all of what you were saying you could say in the budget implementation report was planned so much and so much, so much and so much, the effect was that and so much. Therefore, there are instruments, but we need to get rid of important points such as the budget being discussed in a political way because we have not changed at all how much the budget has experienced the revolution legally on how it can be controlled and the location where the funds and programming are used and that in such a way we think this debate would be excessive.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77042	We have further replicas, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77043	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleague Leko, I agree with you that the Government is the most responsible for not only assessing the impact of the regulations but also just implementing the regulations that the Croatian Parliament is making, it is also written in the Constitution. However, if we look at the opinion of the Constitutional Court, then Croatia still does not have the Constitution regardless of the position of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. But I'm just going to point out a few examples that things don't need to be seen black and white, but they're totally gray. The last week we passed two laws is a law on the areas and headquarters of the state's attorney's office and the addition of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. Where only a fool and a total jerk can say that these laws will be implemented and that they are enforceable in areas, here I primarily think of Korčula, Dubrovnik, Đakovo, Najsice where the state's attorneyship and the court in Đakov connect with Nasice, where Valpovo, the White Manastir connects with Osijek, where the government brings together two state ergeles and still does not adopt a merger regulation where the state ergela, Đakovo, 1000, 500, 600, established moves to Lipik where all vehicles have Pacrac registrations etc. This all says that this government is doing its job completely irresponsiblely and that it is not necessary to pass this law at the end of the term of office since only one thing is implicated by this law, the new entanglement of party personnel on the basis of bad, catastrophic laws and executions for citizens. Not only Djakovo, not just Slavonia, but from all of Slavonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77044	In the meantime, we have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Anna Lovrin, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77045	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative has violated Article 209. The Rules of Procedure, because insulting and inappropriate words are addressed, this "stupid and total jerk" that the law will be implemented, is said by the Proposer and we have told many of us MPs and I don't think it's right and it doesn't fit our Rules of Procedure this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77046	The representative called for a replica, so it's not exactly prescribed that all terms will be used, so it's not even prohibited and not allowed for those terms that are extreme, I pray. The representative spoke his opinion in the replica to Mr. Leka, in my opinion, crossed the framework of termological and qualification, but we have already inaugurated this today in Parliament as some normal behavior. Mr. Vinkovic has a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77047	Also, Article 209 of the esteemed colleague of the former justice minister hurt, considering I said and I didn't mean the MPs that they're fools and jerks, only a total fool and a jerk can't see that these two laws are bad. As bad was the merger of the two state ergels. You can check this out in all possible institutions, so you will see that Ergela Lipik is located in a rented space and that the state ergela Đakovo dates back to 1506 years that she was first part of the diocese property, that then after the war it passed to PIC Đakovo and that in 1996 it became state property. And it's just like moving the Giakovak cathedral to Duboba, and there's a freeway down the road and expensive pay for the checkout.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77048	Neither those words nor the ergels, nor the billing houses were the subject of any debate here and is not part of the injury of the Businessman, so it is abuse of injury to the Businessman, sir, and from word to word is all abuse. Let's move on, I hope these squires keep repeating it. Mrs. Anna Lovrin's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77049	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you've already said that it was the abuse of the Rules of Procedure's Institute of Injury. The MP has no right with me to paralyze whether it's an injury. You're the person who's gonna say whether the Businessman is hurt or not. You said it was almost common in the Croatian Parliament such terms and I consider them an insult, but please respect your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77050	Yeah, yeah, unfortunately, we turned that into something common. But I suggest we endure these several months of even such things, so the new assembly will probably sharpen some of its criteria and bring perhaps a change to the Businessmen when they will be able to intervene a little bit more. ... Mr. Yosip Leco has remained the answer to the gentleman. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, I don't. Thank you. Then we have another replica of Mr Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77051	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, an esteemed colleague would replicate in that segment of his debate when he talks about constitutional responsibility, of course, when he mentioned the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure and constitutional provisions regarding the EU. As far as the responsibility of a respected colleague is concerned, I don't think this law really touches any constitutional relationship or responsibility as our Constitution requires, especially not the Government of Parliament. So constitutional positions or constitutional provisions relating to the Government and regarding the Parliament and who is to whom this law does not absolutely touch. Once again, I will repeat what is the basis of this law and why it is passed, and you did not highlight it in your debate. The bill is a draft bill, so I think that is a key term in Article 3. The law therefore discusses how, in future, the government will establish a draft bill, a bill that is then yet to be referred to in the Croatian Assembly for decision. So from a whole series of standards, rules that are at the level of decisions, regulations, they're now being translated into law. The moment this law enters into force, we will have in one place a clear, precisely elaborated problem when the government as a resolution ministry is in the position of proposing legal projects that they be methodologically conceived or prepared as this law speaks. Second. As for the Rules of Procedure and quoting these provisions on the EU, I agree with you there. Maybe in the context of this really black and white, we shouldn't discuss or put labels on someone else's label and not someone else's. Our rules of procedure as well as notorious is the fact that we need to change. There are a whole series of provisions that need to be changed, what is said as soon as possible, and also in relation to this issue of ours that we are talking about. I'll just remind you of the fact that we opened a debate on the Committee on the Constitution, the Businessman and the political system that you disagreed to prepare for the accession of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. However, the need to amend the rules of procedure will certainly be and is conditional on the amendment of the Constitution and the position of the Republic of Croatia in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77052	Thank you very much. We have an answer, Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77053	Well, my colleague Tomljanovic, an esteemed colleague, and you have now confirmed with your own replica that this matter of this law is the matter of the rule of law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you yourself have confirmed. You have now said that this law regulates the draft rules, and the draft regulation comes before the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the proposal for a regulation comes before the Croatian Parliament. So let the Government arrange for itself to come to terms with the rules, and let it not exclude its responsibility and put the Legislative Office responsible for the proposal. And nothing more and nothing less, because that's what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77054	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77055	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I would like to thank you for the very contentious debate on the proposal for today's draft Law on the assessment of the effects of the regulations by the Final Proposal of the Law. A few words and a brief review of the debate and a few comments. First, the Government of the Republic of Croatia wants to pass, that is, proposes this law to the Croatian Parliament out of respect for Croatian citizens, from the aspect of the Croatian Parliament as the legislative body of the Republic of Croatia. He has two aspects, as you can see. His key emphasis is to strengthen the previous procedure before the legislative proposals come before this House. Therefore, the aim of this law is to strengthen the co-ordination role of the Law Office. This law, as you have seen, does not foresee the establishment of new bodies. We just want to coordinate, within the framework of the bodies that are with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Office of Law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's efforts already in place for years in the framework of the work of a number of ministries and the basis for a number of decisions that I have listed in the opening statement of particularly a number of sublegal acts for which some resolutions are in charge in the context of assessing the effects of the regulations. Therefore, the aim of this law is to go ex ante to the Croatian Assembly to come to mature proposals after a thorough level of debate that may involve both political parties and MPs. This law has been on the government's website since the end of March. Since the end of March, anyone in Croatia who wanted to see what it said could have done so. I would also put this proposal in the context of harmonising Croatian legislation with the EU. It is precisely decided legal gains about this to be mandatory in the process of adapting our legal system to the EU, but there is also good practice within a number of Member States that also evolve in strengthening their procedures, their law-making procedures. And therefore, the experts involved in this project that I mentioned earlier helped Croatian government experts. Representatives of the European Union delegation in Croatia were closely involved in its construction, they are very pleased that we are ready to move further towards what is called smarter legislation, legislation that looks a few steps ahead, legislation that looks at the interaction of certain regulations. The reason we're passing the law is to put an emphasis on it. We did not want to go to a sublegal act, but rather to the law in order to develop strengthening mechanisms, the previous strengthening of the impact assessment of the regulations in the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to the provisions concerning the cited provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, you know for yourself that the transitional and final provisions states that they will enter into force on the date of accession into the European Union. I think that right now in the Croatian Parliament there is a debate on this, perhaps not a plenary but certainly on some other bodies about the role of the Croatian Parliament in Croatia's membership in the European Union. You also know that the basis of the principle of proportionality and subsidiarity of the role of the Croatian Parliament is further strengthened by the provisions of the Lisbon Treaty as well as by all national parliaments within the European Union, and this law has been done on the basis of our already 10-year experience in the adoption of plans and programmes for the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the European Union. Right here, the plan of normative activities aims to upgrade the good practice that we have had all these years when we have coordinated the Croatian legal system with the European Union. I would also like to say that not all legislative proposals will also require, within the framework of the normative action plan, the assessment of the effects of the regulations but will be done not on the basis of who is the holder of the regulation and who will make this key decision. I would also like to say that there is no deception here, the law is very transparent, and in the extreme line he has passed and the Committee on Legislative Law without Amendments and the Committee on European Integration, however, has received full support and we believe that today's debate except perhaps some principled comments did not go into the heart in the sense that this law would not be useful. However, it seems to me that most of the MPs have realized that it will be a qualitative step forward in harmonising Croatian legislation and in general I would say making laws in the Republic of Croatia. As far as the profession is concerned, I think that just by strengthening the previous public debate, including all interested ones, these, for example, will be expressed as saying that all those who are in a particular area are active and who are the specific stakeholders of a particular segment of Croatian society in time have the opportunity to make their contribution within the legislative process and, in particular, to assess its effects. There are no new costs, this law will not cause any new costs or any budgetary commitments, especially this year. But there's also the use of the funds from this project that we listed, so IPA twing from 2007 million and 100 thousand euros. The vast majority of these funds will be used in the coming period precisely for the education of not only the employees of the Legislator's Office but of all the relevant resolution ministries and other bodies of the state administration, thus strengthening our administrative capacities in order to make this law more effective. So, we want to enable this urgent process of adoption to enable as quickly and as high as possible the number of people within the State Administration in the Republic of Croatia to be able to implement it and to be properly prepared in a better way to assess the effects of the regulations in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, Mr President, we propose that the Croatian Parliament adopt this proposal for a law on the assessment of the effects of the regulations in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77056	Thank you. We have two corrections. First, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77057	Dear Secretary of State, you said the government proposed this law out of respect and respect for the Croatian Parliament and for Croatian citizens. The fact is that the government washes its hands of responsibility with this law, and I advise you to read the Constitution because respect for the citizens and for the Parliament would then conduct certain public debates over certain laws as was the case last week on laws on the areas and offices of the state's attorneys and courts. This is what she said here, and I quote Ms. Novosel's State Secretary, a broad public debate was held, and the fact that last Tuesday, all the presidents of the municipal courts were convened, and a debate was held on Wednesday, following an emergency procedure, on Friday. These are the facts of washing the responsibility that stands in the Constitution. Unfortunately, according to the Constitutional Court, we don't have a Constitution. We've got Mr. Shakespeare, but the Constitutional Court doesn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77058	Thank you. We also have a correction, Mr. Representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77059	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also point out that the relativeisation of the constitutional position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not contribute to the purity and clarity of the legislative proposal. I mean, Mr. Secretary of State, I really do respect you, but I have no responsibility for you. Thus, your finding that the Government respects the Council of the Republic of Croatia is not a matter of the Constitution, and under the Constitution is responsible for this Parliament and cannot escape from it. Thus, even by amending this law, it cannot change the Constitution, no matter what time later it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77060	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. We move on to the final draft law on the impact assessment of regulations. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 844. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law on the impact assessment of the regulations. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 109 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77063	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is before us, therefore, the Law confirming the Agreement establishing an international anti-corruption academy as an international organisation with the draft final draft law. Therefore, this Law confirms the Agreement establishing an international anti-corruption academy as an international organisation in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal system of the Republic of Croatia. On 15 December 2010, the Republic of Croatia signed an agreement and is one of the founding states of the International Anti-Corruption Academy based in Laksemborg, the Republic of Austria. The agreement was opened for signature by 31 December 2010 and 51 countries and 2 international organisations which had signed the agreement by that date were considered as founders. By 11 May 2011, the agreement was ratified by 7 countries, Austria, Hungary, the Russian Federation, Slovakia, Slovenia, Thailand and two international organisations. The Agreement entered into force on 8 March 2011. The agreement establishes the International Anti-Corruption Academy. Its legal position, purpose and activity shall be governed, the seat of the body of the Academy, the financing, sources of funding, co-operation, privileges, immunity, liability for obligations, the entry into force of the agreement, the settlement of any disputes and withdrawal from the agreement and its termination. The International Anti-Corruption Academy will become a centre of excellence in the field of education on the prevention of corruption, and the Academy programme will be implemented at the following five levels: standardised training and research, education and research, interdisciplinary programmes based on academic degrees, dialogue and cooperation activities and integration and anti-corruption panels and evaluation procedures. These education procedures will in particular be suitable for the necessary training and education of judges, state lawyers and police officers working to investigate corruption and organised crime. But Croatian experts will be able to offer their experience and knowledge so far in the fight against corruption. Therefore, everything the Republic of Croatia has done in the fight against corruption and organised crime is known. We established actually strong institutions, secured working conditions, brought a strong normative framework. So we have a very effective law on criminal proceedings. We have therefore, today will be before us and a proposal for a new criminal law where we go with very precise provisions and with one I would say a very good proposal for a modern criminal law. The results of the fight against corruption in Croatia are also very visible. And so this is another small step in the fight against corruption in a way that all the people who work in that segment and who are most responsible for fighting can at this Center of Excellence, meaning within this academy that we can educate them. But what is particularly significant today, we are no longer just in a position to be and accept the experiences of others, but we can certainly offer those solutions that we have built through our system. Here is why we suggest that this Agreement be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77064	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Justice Committee? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77065	Thank you very much, Vice President, Mr. Secretary. I think it's a good thing Croatia is the founder of one of these institutions. Because today talking about fighting corruption should actually always have something to call them international and borderless things in mind. Because we know that in this world of globalisation, in fact, more serious and larger forms of corruption happen not only at national level, but far beyond. Well, I don't know if I'm gonna mention these Croatian examples, just take this new affair, and what we're gonna see with it. So around INA, we're not taking some stories about some banks, etc. And in that context, I think it is a good thing that the Ministry of Justice launched this initiative, which actually led Croatia to be co-founder of one of these bodies. The team before we meet today with, therefore, different sophisticated forms of corruption. So it's not just cash&cary anymore, but there are different forms, so even in some environments they don't perceive and recognize as corruption, as part of corruption. So I think that the education of Croatian staff at one such academy with changes in the experiences of other countries will also have great significance for the students of the academy. But what I have a little bit of is always a skeptic when I read some law or some decision, so when it says it won't cost anything. I know from experience that there is no law that has no financial effect. But I was particularly bothered by it here when I saw about this academy, because the agreement clearly states how the academy is financed. So the academy is funded from multiple sources. It is likely primarily about scholarships and now what I do not understand, voluntary donations of members or parties. Thus, it means that members of the congregation will make voluntary contributions. Come on, so no tariff is prescribed, or some amount. But somehow I can accept that. But I don't think it's very popular what's called the International Anti-Corruption Academy that this, too, will be very highly funded by private donations. It's not good for me in itself, but it's okay. There's probably a certain trust fund or someone who's going to invest in it. But what I want and what I want to ask. I don't get it, so if it's not prescribed, unless there's some kind of party quotation, then the founder. This means, therefore, that Croatia does not have to pay a single kuna during its participation, or stay in that academy. Because that means that, for example, judges, cops, state lawyers, civil servants, actually, they're going to pay that tuition themselves, or they're going to be behind them, like certain government bodies. I think maybe it should be a little clearer there, so I wouldn't say that the Croatian state, or government at the annual level, will spend so much and so much money to educate its staff at that International Academy. What I still don't understand from the agreement, so what it means is the academy would start working. Is it necessary that all 51 members, as far as I have seen there, who have signed by the end of 2010 ratify so that the academy starts or is already enough that the founders themselves along with this number of countries that have ratified it are actually starting this academy. And what seems very important to me, so when it comes to the role of the academy, it does not only have this tendency to excellence and education in the fight against corruption but it also has different aspects of technical assistance. So this is what Croatia could use, for example, because we know that often when it comes to the traces of corruption and black money that there are always certain barriers, first of all I mean national borders, and then also different stakeholders in certain countries. And so, the item that's talking about that academy and changing experiences and actually having one possibility of practical help in fighting corruption, I think it gives one round meaning to the existence of an international organisation or institution as you wish. And in the end, I think it's good that it's in Austria, so it's very close to us, and with Austria, we have a lot of good relationships. I believe there will be more in the future. Here is how much the SDP club will support the proposal for this agreement, that is, this Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Establishment and Establishment of the International Anti-Corruption Academy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77066	Thank you. HNS-HSU Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77067	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The government has proposed that the Croatian Parliament adopt the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement establishing the International Anti-Corruption Academy as an international organisation and that is, international organisations whose founding agreement took place quite recently in March 2011. It is absolutely commendable that the Republic of Croatia reacts quickly and that the proposed law is in fact a framework within which the Republic of Croatia is allowed to participate actively in a project that has set out to work through standardised research, education and research training, then through various interdisciplinary programmes based on academic degrees, dialogue and cooperation platforms working on integration. As well as the development of anti-corruption panels and the development of so-called anti-corruption panels. "evaluation procedures." It could almost be said without great furry that corruption is a central topic in the Republic of Croatia as well. When I say that in the Republic of Croatia, that means that our country is not endemic in that sense, that it is not special and that, unfortunately, good fits into a pattern that the UN organisation recognises in the region of so-called. "West Balkans regions" as the world's highest level of corruption that is comparable to some African countries. There's almost no affair in the last five years that hasn't actually had a sign of corruption. And the affairs that have been opened, which have led to criminal charges or court proceedings, have justified such a general view that it is in fact a single social evil which, unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia for a whole series of reasons, has taken a great wave, but has left a strong root. The consequences of corruption in the country are great. What we find interesting and interesting as professional politicians is that the problem of corruption directly destroys the active link between citizens and politics, between citizens and politicians. First of all, by destroying the reputation of politics as a public activity for general well-being. It could almost be said without a reservation that the reputation of political people, generally taken in Croatia, has never been worse among citizens. It is difficult for citizens to convince that politics is indeed a work for the common good and that it is an honorable activity because they are busy with information, affairs, scandals from which it is evident that key actors of the biggest corruption scandals are people who have dealt with politics. However, to stop proving and constantly repeating that politics is and must be the honorable activity of death is for the political life of every nation. We must not agree to this as long as we are in politics that this general picture is accepted as the only one and that it speaks to our children about politics as something dirty, as something unworthy of an honest man and as something that the honest world does not deal with. In the long term, such a message to young people, such a message to children who have, among other things, the aim of rejecting them from politics, to reject them from the process of making public decisions, to reduce their capacity as voters of active citizens, people who want to participate in making decisions that shape their future and future for us all, and our children, generally agreeing also means a huge amount of damage to the political future of Croatia. We must not agree to this, and it is the task of everyone, including the highest legislative body in the Republic of Croatia of the Croatian Parliament, to do everything, that this perception of politics is changing and that no one can help us except ourselves. Corruption violates the credibility of democratic institutions, all public opinion research suggests that citizens do not trust political institutions, that they do not trust democratic institutions or that they do not trust them enough, that whenever they believe them they have not received satisfaction. It is the task of the political elite in every democratic society to see corruption, as much as possible, because it is almost impossible to destroy it, it is almost impossible to remove it from society, but the task of the political elite to see by its actions, its actions and its behaviour five, 10, and 15, if possible and several years in advance, the future of the people, the future of the state, the future of society, and in that sense not to allow corruption to become or remain a model of functioning, the model of governance. Corruption prevents safe and rational investment, a fair economic market, leads to a waste of budget money, an increase in poverty, the worst hit by the weakest unprotected, increases citizens' inequality, contributes to a general sense of uncertainty and dissatisfaction. In times of crisis as is now and Croatia sharing not only the effects of the economic crisis but everything it carries with it, from social, demographic general political and all other issues that are due to the economic crisis, it is difficult to cover all the consequences that arise from this process, but what is essential to come out of any crisis is certainly the confidence of citizens in their own community, institutions and those chosen to represent them in creating a common future. If a person is humiliated by his lack of work, because of his social status, he cannot achieve a basic need, he kills confidence, and there is no talk of easy getting out of any crisis, just the opposite of what we need is to contribute to a general sense of security and satisfaction. The fight against corruption, the awareness of this social evil is one way. As I said, according to the United Nations, their Office for Drugs and Crime of the Western Balkans is one of the most corrupt regions of the United Nations. 87.1% of people in Croatia say they are in contact with public services and of those 87.1% 11.2 declare that they are paying bribes in order to speed up administrative procedures, obtaining better treatment in hospitals, avoiding payment of penalties, etc. It's interesting that more than half of the citizens who give bribes themselves are offering bribes. They already expect the system to work just like that and actually only adapt to it. If we were to compare ourselves with those we think we're generally taking better than them, we'd come up with defeating results. Let's look at the situation in Serbia. The percentage of people who give bribes in Serbia is only 2% lower according to the United Nations survey results on the same number of employees but the other data is approximately equal. In Kosovo, much less, 69.7% of citizens are in contact with public or public services and officials, but about the same percentage of people who bribe. Corruption is not only about taking bribes, corruption is about abuse of duty to obtain personal or common material financial benefits, for a better position in society, in order to reach the positions from which it decides and influences decision-making more directly and resolutely. But again in order to obtain personal and common financial, material and other forms of benefit. It is also nepotism but in our particular case it is most expressed as a model in which a civil servant and a civil official consider their duty to be fully natural, unquestionable means of obtaining their own income beyond the pay they are paid by law. Therefore, it is fully expected that he from the position or the one he is in will provide him with additional revenue. And that's why people don't trust politicians, and that's why people think today, generally taking on even though no generalization is good that it's good to do politics if there's nothing else for a person to benefit himself and for the economy of income that will provide him with long-term benefits. What this agreement offers, or the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement, is the active role of the Republic of Croatia in the work of the International Anti-Corruption Academy as an international organisation. The Croatian People's Party club, the Croatian People's Party, will support this proposal but we point out that the funding model of the Academy is based solely on donations, without the participation of the countries that are party to the agreement being missing and that the Republic of Croatia in this sense could and can still at least symbolically participate in the financing of the Academy and in order to be as credible as possible and to provide the Academy with the best possible working conditions. It's in our interest. The stronger the academy, the more our interest is, because the problems of a guy like this, like corruption, we have too much. The HNS Club, the HSU to repeat, will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77068	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77069	counterpart Beus said that behind every affair that opens in Croatia is corruption and this negatively affects the perception of politics in Croatia and in general. We discussed the impact assessments of the law just before, now the Anti-Corruption Academy, and one affair is a disgrace to Croatia remains. I think we're the only country in which a state official That all affairs are just corruption. [[/Intruder: Which quote are you correcting?]] So, the only state in which he's a state official who's in custody or in prison for investigation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77070	Comrade Lesar, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77071	And who's entitled to full pay and that's also such a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77072	Thank you very much. A colleague, Lesar, is not a correction to an incorrect quote, but a general comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77073	Excuse me, why isn't that a correction?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77074	Because it's not that you're not correcting anything, it's that you're commenting on the logic of things. Well, you're a logical man, you realize don't speak illogically.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77075	No, I'm correcting my colleague Beus.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77076	You weren't correcting the quote. You were commenting.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77077	Can I finish my sentence?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77078	You can't. You're done.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77079	What do you mean? I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77080	Yes, it is. There's a way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77081	Are you taking my word?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77082	I'm not taking your word, I'm saying you're done.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77083	Then I'll finish. So it's the same shame as convicted members of the leadership and secretaries of the party. ... Because of the abuse of position. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77084	For this offensive claim, I give you a warning. It wasn't a correction to an incorrect quote. It was an insult in the end. The president of the Education, Science and Culture Committee, Petar Selem, scheduled a meeting of the Education, Science and Culture Committee for today at 13:30 in the Chamber of Stjepan Radić with the agenda Presentation of the Croatian project 2025 better for a new start, Final Proposals of the Law on Culture Nova Foundation, Reports on the Financial Review of High Schools for 2009 and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. So, at 13.30 in the hall of Stjepana Radic. HDZ representative club Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77085	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club will support the proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement establishing an international anti-corruption academy as an international organisation. The HDZ club will be happy to support its participation in the adoption of this law. First of all, because education is one of the strongest measures in the Anti-Corruption Strategy that we have brought here at the Croatian Parliament and that we systematically exercise and conduct parliamentary supervision over the implementation of this strategy. This agreement establishes an International Organisation called the International Anti-Corruption Academy, which is therefore set up for the purpose of education and thus to implement successful prevention and the fight against corruption by providing anti-corruption education and vocational education. Of course, we hold that it is good and that it is necessary to set up an international academy like this where the problem of corruption will be considered wider, so beyond the borders of a country. As we know, corruption, organised crime, including terrorism, are all activities that are no longer known to the state's borders, nor are these national borders any interference in these illicit and criminal activities. Therefore, also on the trail of Croatia's fight against corruption and the finding of preventive measures to prevent corruption is a highly proactive role in the international agenda, so we have already passed several times the laws that we have confirmed and ratified and joined international conventions or bilateral agreements with countries in the environment or countries of the world, just as effectively as possible the fight against corruption and organised crime. This agreement was asked here whether or not this academy is already working? Therefore, the agreement provides for the entry into force of the agreement of 60 days after the 3rd instrument of ratification has been laid down. Since the agreement comes into force, and the agreement itself establishes an anti-corruption academy, we can conclude that this academy is already beginning to function for the reason that so far I think seven countries have already ratified this agreement, which means that the academy can start working. This Agreement sets out the purpose and purpose of this Academy. First of all, to combat corruption, education, cooperation, academic research, using a comprehensive approach, precisely accepting the diversity of individual countries, appropriate instruments and mechanisms of combating corruption and, of course, exchange of experiences. This agreement also defines the bodies of the Academy. These are the Assembly, the International Senior Advisory Committee, the International Academy Advisory Committee, then the Dean and the Management Board. The agreement stipulates that Croatia will have one representative as well as any founding country under the agreement, that it will have one representative in the assembly. Of course, since we have very good experts in Croatia in the field of fighting corruption, I believe that there will also be representatives in these other bodies who will meet these high criteria. The Academy programme is planned, and this will be proposed by this Senior Advisory Committee and the International Academy Committee, and will be accepted by the Management Board and the Assembly. Therefore, the programme will be implemented as standardised training and research, education and research, as necessary, interdisciplinary programmes based on academic degrees, dialogue and cooperation activities and integration and anti-corruption panels and evaluation procedures. Therefore, the agreement defines exactly what and how and how programmes will be implemented. These programmes provide for the training and training of judges, state lawyers and police officers. This is, of course, part of the persecution and prosecution of the already discovered and committed crimes of corruption, but certainly also experts working to investigate the emergence of corruption, but also officials of the Ministry of Justice, other civil servants and officials in the ministries and bodies of the state administration, but also to all those involved in public affairs, or who work in the affairs of countering or preventing corruption. I am extremely pleased that the agreement set out in Article 2 when it lists the purposes of the academy so that it is defined in a way that the purpose of the Guard is to promote effective and successful prevention and fight corruption. Therefore, the systematic, long-term fight against corruption must first of all be preventive, so by assessing corruption risks, by adopting regulations, by laying down procedures that will be fully established, quite public, quite transparent, that the fields for corruption activities, or by not doing so would be any less or less. Of course, we will never achieve the ideal state that corruption will absolutely not be, it is secretive, it happens in closed circles, it is difficult to discover it but it is important when it is discovered, when it shows that there are both institutions and mechanisms and capacities of human, financial, institutional, to then effectively implement the procedure and impose sanctions. As far as financing is concerned, the question has been raised that, since in the bill of law, the means necessary for the implementation of this law are said not to require additional funding but that does not mean that this academy will work without funds. Of course, it is likely that no additional resources are needed, but I must say that there are already resources for education and international co-operation within the framework of the budgetary means of combating corruption in several items of the budget, and the promoter has probably estimated that these funds, which are generally intended for education and international co-operation, will also be sufficient for the implementation of this law. It's true that it's a little unusual for this academy to be funded from donations. That's what I'm not saying is that it's impossible, that it's bad or what, it's just that it's unusual for us. I personally see for the first time that within membership among the founders do not determine certain provisions on this, so fixed quotas or percentages in funding, but that it remains on a voluntary basis. I believe that within the assembly of this academy or on some bodies, a deal will be reached on these voluntary donations and that certainly all founding countries will participate in this funding. But probably, as we read this agreement, the main revenue will also be drawn from tuition and co- utilisation for workshops, technical assistance fees and other sources of income. And finally, I repeat, we will support this law because we think that the establishment of this academy is another good thing to strengthen education, to change international experiences and to act more effectively on the international plan, because corruption is certainly something that the state's borders are in the interest of gaining illegal benefits and personal breakthroughs by abuse of public position, so they do not know or prevent it from being in any state border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77086	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77087	Dear Mr. Vice President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. HDSSB and the HDSSB club will support the establishment of this academy, with the conclusion that this academy should have been set up a long time ago, if not this international bar, then our Croatian in our nice view that we would not then have certain things that are related to organised crime and this state-organised crime, bribe and corruption. And here it also warns of the very financing of the academy just so that certain things that we had in the very near past would not happen again, while the Croatian captain was sailing with a small vitre, and now the captain will probably return, so as far as I hear he will actively defend himself. I think Croatia will have the opportunity to see what happened during the bonacos, maestrals and both the south and the barrels. So first of all, we ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to go before the Croatian Parliament with the entire financial structure since there are also voluntary donations from the parties to this agreement. We in the budget have a number of items designed to fight corruption, but we don't have the establishment of an international academy and we don't know how much it actually comes. There are certainly interesting voluntary donations from the private sector and from other donors, so I believe that there very quickly knowing our mentality might have happened that precisely those who have put into crime and corruption are financing this kind of academy. I said this was probably something like that, at least one course of education not sewing about identifying corruption. It is similar to being organized here in the fight against drug abuse, so I believe that we would not have had INA, Podravka, Croatian highways. By the way, I don't know if you know that our companies that worked here in Croatia are doing highways in Bulgaria. Obviously, we are facing exports and there are certain incentives in Bulgaria, i.e. that our companies are not financing political parties. There is also a famous Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, and it will be very interesting to monitor these coming months what will be happening. There is Croatian Electricity, Croatian Railways, BMW I don't mean the BMW company, so there are even those fire trucks. There are certain banks, the Croatian Privatisation Fund, invisible works on the Pelješa Bridge which are also tied to a very close company. However, several billion kunas have been spent there, but these works are being done under the sea, so they can't be seen. There's a Đakovština that's been a few months anyway. The workers ended up on the streets. The government had 32% of its stake and has no responsibility at all. At the same time in this House there are laws on the compensation of workers, so I suggest that workers of Đakovština be compensated in a similar way as the workers of the Salonitas, that the workers of Đakovština are also compensated because the government has the highest responsibility, because it had 32% share and had two girls in the supervisory boards who regularly raised their hands and received compensation for that handlifting. Certainly in Slavonia, we realized that not only had to live on agriculture, so here's a nice Vienna guy we've come up with. All the Croats want, they just want to paint tunnels. This speaks enough about how this political academy has been late, while at the same time certain activities and the Ministry of Interior, as well as the justice departments related to other criminal acts, have the latest case of Dragan Paravinja. There was a Purda, etc. etc. where it is evident that we are really not in progress and we do not have the opportunity to react very quickly and promptly. I will also mention here the political corruption that has been at work all these years when council members were bought, when certain lists were bought, when local self-government budgets and certain units were financed from the budget, the county but especially from the state budget in order to keep someone in power regardless of the non-implementation of competitions, and I would say individuals. This applies in particular to national minorities who, for the sake of several votes, received enormous amounts of money from the budget without competition, without programmes, without building permits issued, etc. etc. Is political corruption and what happened last week, and I believe that as a minister you are a responsible man and that you know that no public debate has been held, and so it is about the issue of fighting corruption, of abolishing state's attorneys, of abolishing or deposing the jurisdiction of the courts, so I ask you, do you know that from Djakov who has over 30,000 residents who are 15 and who last year were proposed to join Djakov, do you know that there is only one bus a day? Do you know that from Korčula to Dubrovnik, there we can help Mrs. Shuica sometimes takes four hours to get to Dubrovnik, to get to court, to get to the State's Attorney's office to fight. I argue that no public debate was held, that the presidents of municipal and county courts were called on Tuesday, that they were given a lecture on how this is a condition for entry into the European Union. On Wednesday, it was already on the agenda, an emergency vote. There was a debate Thursday. On Friday, these lunatics were brought in, these crazy amendments and additions to the law. Is it clear to you as a minister that it is a blow and that the State's Attorney's Office in certain cities as well as municipal courts represent and make the city a city, and they don't do it anyway. I compared it to the move of the Djakova cathedral to Duboba where several billion kunas were actually spent so that the captain could get off the highway to his village and pay the toll along the way. On the other hand, I propose that as a minister, and since these were also organic laws and that constitutional action would go, 72 or 72 MPs and 75 MPs would vote for this removal, so I suggest that as a minister, you understand the mistake of opening a broad public debate because this really doesn't lead to anything. Whether political corruption is also a merger of two state ergeles, one of which is in the rented area of the Lipik Agriculture. Prior to that, the establishment of the Croatian Horsefarm Centre, where a HSS vessel was caught in accordance with the coalition agreement, where every day from Đakova, since there are no groups of countries where you can plant nothing, and you can't even plant English grass. Every day, tons and tons of food depart from Đakov, every day from the state budget is paid renting that ergele, workers of which 37 are paid daily, and only 2 are from Lipik, i.e. Pakrac. Everything else is a rental labor force. Is political corruption also the fact that additional payments and re-registration have been paid, etc., etc.? I believe that a lot is also related to the work of this international academy, so I suggest that the HDSSB requires that not only the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia and the MPs, but also the entire Croatian public to substitute the entire financial structure as a minister, given that we want the most effective fight against corruption, bribes, organised crime, that branches, not parties, as was the case on the Croatian highways where you had to have a HDZ party card in order to be employed as a ticket salesman or money collector, we propose therefore not a party, but the establishment of a branch of this academy in all ministries, in all state companies and all state institutions, so that all of this that I have listed is not repeated. They say old Latina is a repeticio es mother studiorum, so I'll just remind you of INA, Podravka, HAC, Environmental Protection Fund, HEP, Croatian Railways, Đakovština, Brodosplit, Privatisation Fund, FIMI MEDIA, really what happened to FIMI MEDIO? And if you have problems with whoever collects these donations, I suggest Mr. Barisic. He already has experience in that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77088	Thank you. Comrade Vinkovic, I was to this extent impressed by your performance that I was bewitched... Yeah, yeah, yeah. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yes, I'm a little uncomfortable with the mayor of Djakov being taken away from the session by accident or by accident as an honorary citizen of Djakova, but Djakovičan Djakovana is giving it away, but you were indeed, today, the maximum distance from the topic so that there was no reason to warn you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ingrid, how come you're still so eager to give your ex-collars a heads-up? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, you're a Samaritan, so don't be such a thing. ... She didn't throw her out of the bench, which is, she needs to be tolerated because the lady is, right? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're going to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77089	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Inaugural conference of the International Anti-Corruption Academy held in Vienna in September 2010 was attended by representatives of the Republic of Croatia who signed an Agreement establishing the International Anti-Corruption Academy as an international organisation among 35 UN member states and the European Public Law Organisation. In early December 2010, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to launch a procedure for the conclusion of an Agreement establishing the International Anti-Corruption Academy as an international organisation signed on 15 December 2010. By 31 December 2010, 51 states and 2 international organisations signed the agreement, and following the prescribed ratification procedure, the agreement entered into force on 8 March 2011. By confirming the agreement, the Republic of Croatia will show interest and join the international community's efforts to make further efforts in the fight against corruption and show determination in the fight against corruption. Otherwise, the agreement establishes the International Anti-Corruption Academy, regulates its legal position, purpose and activity, headquarters, bodies of the Academy, financing, co-operation, responsibility for obligations to enter into force, dispute resolution, withdrawal from the agreement and its termination. The International Anti-Corruption Academy as a centre in the field of corruption prevention education will work on a 5-level programme, based in particular on UN Anti-Corruption Convention provisions. The main purpose of the academy is to promote effective and successful prevention and fight corruption by providing comprehensive quality anti-corruption education and other appropriate forms of technical assistance and promoting international cooperation and networking in the fight against corruption. Of course, education programmes will be favourable for the necessary training and education of judges, state lawyers, police officers, civil servants and officials, that is, all those working on corruption prevention activities. Also, Croatian experts will be able to provide the Academy with their experience and knowledge so far in the fight against corruption. For this reason, since the Croatian Parliament confirms the Agreement establishing the International Anti-Corruption Academy as an international organisation in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and I support the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement establishing the International Anti-Corruption Academy as an international organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77090	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77091	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. An agreement establishing the International Anti-Corruption Academy or better to replace this word anti-corruption with the word ANTIIMT, this IMT is not an engine and tractor industry, is there me. The AntiIMT Academy because, by definition of corruption, this is to acquire personal benefit by misusing the public position. They say independent economic experts claim, say that in corruption affairs in the Republic of Croatia, it is clear that the data is not accurate or can be accurate, as everything is revealed, missing or on such personal benefits has gone beyond 80 billion kuna. Since the Croatian state budget is slightly over 100 billion kuna, this over 80 billion kuna is almost one Croatian annual state budget. It is unfortunate that here is how my predecessor from the club said that we are now signing an agreement on the establishment of an International Anti-IMT Academy whose headquarters will be in Austria or Austria has a stake, and they say it will be financed by sponsorship, donations, etc. Somehow this reminds me of sponsorship and donations to a political racket that is common with us when various companies, companies, institutions and businesses finance political campaigns and the work of our political parties clearly in exchange for later help in getting jobs, etc. They listed colleagues here who all in this one gallop of corruption had gone away, disappeared or arised. The wooden industry in Slavonski Brod sold for 10 million and 300 thousand kuna, in the municipality of Sibinj we see what was done with the land that the state donated to the municipality of Sibinj, renting space for work, and even some ministries, tax administrations, Croatian lottery and what not the Croatians who agreed with certain private persons clearly half drinks half a bar giving how they like to say it, so these rents are enormously expensive, is that all corruption? Political corruption. It's not just corruption taking bribes, it's such a perfidious and sophisticated operation, which would be said within the legal framework to achieve such enormous personal benefits where it's shared as I said half a drink half a bar gives. The Croatian Privatisation Fund as many as the affair, the Croatian Fund for Ecology and Energy Efficiency, Podravka, INA, the Croatian Highway, Croatia Electroprivreda, FIMI Media, Customs, whether there is even a country in which one Prime Minister is in prison, one Deputy Prime Minister in prison, head of customs in prison, and that the government continues to operate in these political frameworks in which it has worked before, that I do not list the others. For example, the presidents of the county organisations of certain parties. In Cyprus, a weapons warehouse exploded, the defence minister dropped out the second day and the chief of staff resigned. In our case, because of retarded imports of retards, the train slips out of the tracks, what's called a rolling train, a bent train, it still bends and no one gets bit by a donkey wolf. If I didn't talk about everything else, I could talk to you by midnight, so I wonder if this academy will sign the founding agreement whether it will teach us and teach us political honesty. I wish that were true. It seems as far as our political authority and our cases are concerned, however, Olaf is the most effective European Anti-Fraud Office. It seems that he has much more knowledge of what is happening in Croatia than all domestics do, not to say judicial or repressive authorities. Nepotism, it's so clear in Slavonski brod that people are employed, at checkout houses, at a hospital in Slavonski Brod, and that's what the city is talking about. So the inspector asks me if I have any knowledge of it, so I didn't give money for employment even though I was expelled from the hospital, but it doesn't matter, and I won't give it because I'm not a politically-like doctor. So, all this together is the reason why I am for this agreement on the establishment of an international anti-corruption academy but unless we figure out what Bruno Busic said to us 38 years ago, it's hard for us, regardless of the entry into the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77092	Thank you. Correction Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77093	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So it's very difficult to talk about some law when you deny the facts, you have listed here a series of falseness among other things where a public tender was held you're talking about corruption. Therefore, a colleague of Grubisic has that Bible to throw away the first stone, and you should really do it already.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77094	Replica Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77095	Let me get along. Here's my dear colleague Grubisic. You were talking about renting.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77096	Please, I hear these low frequencies, on these low frequencies I listen to as a bat, so I ask that a respected representative may continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77097	A respected colleague was talking about renting, probably referring to certain state institutions, ministries, ministers, parliamentary deputies who are in a lease where the state pays expensive rent, while passing certain laws for a certain lack of space, and the same state, for example. in the heart of Slavonia in Djakov, there is one huge building, it is the former PIK administrative building Đakovo for which this government also has a complete project to move all the state administrations, county and part of the city into that building, but they simply go deaf about it. So again there is also one of the games that is related to corruption, given that the state does not care about its ownership, but cares about private property. This is evident in a series of examples of public-private partnership. It was inconceivable for me, though, that the police station could be in the rented private property space. Probably then the owner of that space is definitely protected from all possible laws that we, as Parliamentarians, are making. That building is staring empty today, it's falling apart. It is the former PIC administrative building Djakovo, the rest of the remains as said by Silvije Strahimir Kranjcevic, a relic of the relic, collapses as the state deals with the move of state attorneys, courts, etc. At the same time, renting space.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77098	The reply to the replica will be given by counterpart Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77099	Yeah, that answer to the replica. I agree with your presentation and with your replica. Namely, here, speaking and after my presentation on how transparent everything is, so are the transparency and competitions that are being held. Well, clearly, they're only transparent, unfortunately, the effects are what they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77100	Final review, Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a few answers I owe you because certain questions were asked, primarily about funding. What this agreement actually states is that we are not bound by any payment means a fixed amount but is the matter of our decision. No one prevents us from determining in some budget for the next or another year in the budget exactly how much we will pay for the funding and for the work of this academy. So most of our ministries already have and within their budgets, they have those means of education. So, primarily the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, as part of the division and state's attorneys, we all have those means of education. And we can use these means of education both within workshops and within all those activities that this academy will have. So on that side, we think that we should not exaggerate in some amounts, but simply use what we have at our disposal. It is absolutely certain that we in this academy have what to offer and what to say because over the past few years we have also built a normative and institutional framework to fight corruption. It is recognised I think in that part of Croatia really has something to say. The question was, when will the academy begin, does it work? She's already working. So, after three members, three founders have given ratification of the acceptance statements it works, it exists. And here's something that wasn't directly the subject of this, the answer to whether there was political corruption in this Bill of State's Attorneys and the jurisdiction of the courts. Definitely, on the table we had the only figures, indicators of the number of cases, and in this way we approached not to be abolished but to join the state's attorneys' offices and to transfer jurisdiction related to the application of the Criminal Procedure Act because this is not about the proceedings and jurisdiction of municipal courts. What we say is daily necessary to our citizens, for example, land books, for example, various civil rights procedures. This is all about jurisdiction in criminal matters. As far as criminal matters are concerned, the Law on Criminal Procedure for All Crimes has been applicable since 1.9 this year, not only to organised crime and corruption, and this law provides for certain news. So the indictment act will be decided in fact by the Council of the Prosecutors of each Court and we must be in courts where we will carry out criminal proceedings having the capacity and sufficient number of judges, but not only that, but also enough cases for judges to be specialised. In addition, you know in criminal cases just about all our citizens don't come every day, someone passes by and most of them spend their whole lives without having to do anything and not having to deal with criminal proceedings and court. So if the Constitutional Court says that in something we have violated the procedure or that law finds it unconstitutional, we will, of course, evaluate and offer another solution. But I thank you again because I see this agreement has been supported by all the clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77102	Thank you. One more correction, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77103	So I have to correct the minister, I'll talk about certain sizes. The fact is that Nashice has 20 items, Đakovo has 100th and that there has been no public debate and has been proposed just one year ago that Najsica is also on the contrary for lack of space and lack of personnel to cross under Đakovo. On the other hand, it's not back a few years ago, it's the second correction to the incorrect allegations that the fight against corruption started, and I'm going to quote the current Prime Minister who said a year ago that the fight against corruption started Ivo Sanader, and we see how the fight began.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77104	I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77105	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement establishing an International Anti-Corruption Academy as an International Organisation. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 856. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Agreement establishing an international anti-corruption academy as an international organisation. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 111 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77106	We move to the next item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Compensation Act taken over during the Yugoslav communist rule, first reading, P.Z. No. 854 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the committees on legislation and on the judiciary. You received the reports at the session. Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We therefore have before us a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on property compensation seized during the Yugoslav communist rule. The issue of return or compensation of the seized property in the Republic of Croatia was arranged by the Law on property compensation seized during the Yugoslav communist rule. Under the compensation law passed in 1996, and it entered into force in 1997, foreign citizens could not exercise the rights of the law. ... On constitutional charges, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has made decisions and has decided against foreign nationals that they cannot be excluded absolutely from the exercise of the law of the prescribed rights because they as well as domestic citizens of property have been taken from them in the same way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the decision in question and the decision in question were for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Compensation Act taken during the former state over foreign nationals, so that these novels are given the possibility to exercise rights and foreign persons if an interstate agreement is concluded. This arrangement led to different interpretations and the Administrative Court first took the view that foreign citizens, without the existence of such an agreement, have no right and such practice has existed for a certain period of time. However, after a certain time, the Administrative Court changed its view and said that regardless of the existence or absence of an interstate agreement, foreign citizens have the right to exercise the right to compensation under the law. An application for the protection of legality has been submitted in relation to the decision, however, the Supreme Court confirmed this decision. As the Supreme Court has confirmed that decision, we want this law to open up space so that foreign citizens can exercise such a right. Why do we have to open a new deadline now, because more than that pre-inclusive deadline for submitting the application so far has been exhausted and after this new practice confirmed by the Supreme Court by the foreign citizens can no longer apply for these rights, and therefore this law opens a new deadline of one year in which foreign citizens can submit or the right to receive compensation or those to whom it is disputed, and they have not been able to re-apply with the right to apply to the competent authorities for compensation. We also prescribe this law all the technical details necessary from what this requirement should contain, what contributions should be included and the question was whether it should be six months or a year, but we believe it would be correct for foreign citizens to have that deadline for a year so that they could actually collect all the documents and in some communication with our state bodies to respect that deadline. This law of course has its own financial weight. We've been doing some projections related to the demands we've had so far. So far, we have had over 4000 requests, and compared to these 4,000 requirements, we have determined if, in all these requirements, we actually had a positive solution to the fee so that it would be a weight for our budget of around 700 million kuna, and that would actually be paid from 2015 to 2024. And clearly, we can't say that it's accurate, that it's true because in advance we can't guarantee anyone that his request will be positively resolved, that he will exercise the right, and the right to compensation is actually realized in three ways. First of all, if it's possible to return the property completely, it means naturally, then the real estate comes back. Secondly, if this is not possible and the Republic of Croatia has some other available, it can offer another to replace and only in the third there is compensation if none of these two solutions are possible. Here is why we propose to amend this law so that we can implement this decision of the Supreme Court and of the Administrative Court which has been brought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77108	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Justice Committee? I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77109	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Here first, to read a letter that I received a few days ago and then is literally said here, at yesterday's session, the government adopted a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the property compensation law seized during the Yugoslav communist rule, which opened a new deadline of one year for foreign natural persons in which they can re-apply. So that's already the second term they say that was given to foreign citizens, the first one was in 2002 and 2003 meant six months. The Constitutional Court abolished the provision of the law of '96. that only Croatian citizens can make compensation, and now Croatian citizens have only one deadline, six months and from 1.1 to 30.6.97. the years established by the basic law and in this way have been brought into a more unequal position than foreign citizens. So where the point is, the stranger can now apply for a third time for compensation taken away from him while the Croatian citizen could only do it once and in the period from 1.1 to 30.6.'97. A year. So someone might conclude that foreigners are more equal than Croatian citizens. Clearly, when it comes to Croatia, it would probably not be the first time. It is also clear that it is a civil shame to take away any of his laws acquired or acquired property by law. Croatia, so this Croatia did not participate, it has been happening since '45, it has happened before for those puppet states, so it has happened since '45. Until '54. Something was trying there in the '90s with Serbian property, but it clearly couldn't have gone through, so to be cynical then there was systematic mining or removal of buildings around the Krajina, etc. But I don't want to just not open that discussion. So who does this property return bill concern? It is clearly about the dominant Istria, about the city of Zagreb, about Rijeka, about Zadar and Slavonia in the part where the Germans and Austrians are mentioned. Istria has been exodus since '47. By 54, about 140,000 people left. There are about 40,000 of its inhabitants. Zadar's 10,000th reasons for these exodus were different. I'm not gonna open that topic. When we talk about this exodus that went the way of Italy, this Croatian space leaves about 186,000 people, according to the records of the then MUP and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of ex Yugoslavia, somewhere around 220,000 people. In this number of 180,000 people, meaning that leaving Croatia's optanans were somewhere around 90,000. So, those who came up with the option with children somewhere around 130,000 people. They moved out of these areas mainly of Istria's Italians, but also Slavni, Slovenes, clearly Croats. In this bill of law, it's understandable that the optans aren't me to say the problem. With their assets, Italy has compensated the war damages of ex Yugoslavia and an optant of understandable compensation for the return under quotes of the leftover property should be sought in Rome. Not in Zagreb or Ljubljana. This is with the pain but yet they realized and accepted Prodieva first and then Berlusconi’s government. Clearly, when we talk about this option, the unique case was probably in history that the war damage of one country that was involved in the aggression on another charge by someone else's private property. But where is the problem now when it comes to Italy? 5236 people received signs from the territory of the Republic of Croatia, not only in Istria, but also from Rijeka, Zadar, as well as from Split, and some islands so-called. release from Yugoslav citizenship. Of these 5236 means individuals, so about 3,000 owned some property of which 1034 is now searching through this Law to return parts or their property. These people, then, after World War II, property is nationalized and understandably that property is to be returned to these people. Optantu didn't, the ones who got fired from the so-called. Yugoslav citizenship yes. Now, there is clear among these people those who owned significant properties. The most I can do is express myself to the benign, marginal, some catastrian particles, some ruins, etc. However, who and what treats this Law? This Law de facto treats 4211 foreign citizens seeking return. Of which 1034 are Italian citizens. It's mostly about property that's concentrated in Istria, Rijeka, Zadar. Something even in Split down there. Then we have 676 Austrians. I assume that their property is located in the area of Slavonia, i.e. Zagreb. We have 175 Israelites, Jews. So, who are today in America, Israel, etc. I assume their property is located in the city of Zagreb. We have 143 Germans. Their property is mainly concentrated in Slavonia, i.e. Zagreb. 114 Slovenians whose property is concentrated somewhere along the border with the Republic of Croatia. On page 3 when we talk about costs, I will literally quote it, saying: "However, it is necessary to indicate that the number of foreign natural persons in charge is possible to be significantly higher than 4211 as many as have been recorded so far, assuming that this number will be 30% higher, i.e. that the compensation will be determined by 5474 compensation authorities." The State budget of the Republic of Croatia should provide an annual payment of compensation in the bonds of the Republic of Croatia starting from 2015 to 2034, amounting to HRK 39.4 million, in which case the total amount of kuna 977.7 million would be paid. Of which, in the bonds of the Republic of Croatia, 889.2 million kuna. In money 188.4 thousand kuna in the period from 2012 to 2024 amounting to 15.7 million kuna per year in money. I said if anyone's interested in understanding this law then he or she's the most monitored now in Italy. I'm going to have a part of Il Picola here that came out today, and then this is how the journalists say that in the middle, passed on to "The Voice of Istria" the same way that in the mid-90s the then state secretary at the Italian Foreign Ministry, Pierro Faseno, publicly stated in Trieste that the Italian debt to Ezula optanti, well that he emphasized the Italian debt of 5 billion liras at that time. Two-and-a-half billion euros and Italy is able to fix that definitely. They haven't solved it, but that's their problem now. And now they probably got an explanation of this law or they took it off the government's pages, so among other things, the figures I had previously apostropheeded are mentioned. Well, this is where it's said and so on. It is literally true that the Germans simply wiped out from the history of the Pannonian Valley disappeared in the whirlwind of the construction of new Germany etc. etc. I will vote personally for this law. He was the correcting of a historical disgrace and there should be fair and admit that communism was to some very bad, socially sensitive mainly after the '60s, the '70s, the '80s, but very bad. And it should be fair and accept that the thesis of this morning, Mr. Bebic, President of the Parliament, that there is clearly no time beyond black and white truth. The truth's been a little trinketed. However, it is clear that this law will cost Croatia understandably, that Croatia will not avoid this obligation, that it is asking Europe to do so in its performances, that every US ambassador so far, and we know that the Croatian funds are also limited, that they are modest, that they are insufficient, etc. That's why I personally think it would be good if we got under quotes some map, some "review" that are real estate and whose real estate these demands actually concern. Let's see, I don't know, what's in Istria what's under quotes "space loses", what Rijeka loses, what Slavonia loses, Zagreb etc. True, do not lose Istria or Rijeka or Zagreb but simply return what was kidnapped in one period. The emphasis is to correct historical injustice, to return, not to bid on who gets, or loses. But who loses in this law? They're losing Croatian citizens. How? Because the stranger can make a third order of business claim for the severance of his property, and the Croatian citizen could only do so in one period of 6 months 1997. So why can't the citizens of Croatia apply like the Italians, Germans, Austrians, Jews, I don't know Slovenians, Americans etc., etc. The truth is, this is the first reading, the question of when the second reading will come before the MPs and if it will come at all. Why do I say if he'll come at all? Because at this point, we don't even know the day of the election, all we know is that in 23.11.2003, this Parliament, not the pardon of 2007, this Parliament was established there, established when the elections were held. So, I'd just like to say one thing, let's not gentlemen paint the international community that we pass the law if that law is not voted on in due course. The law will have to pass either this or the future government. This government won't have to implement it. It'll certainly do whatever the next government is. Kidnapped clearly, a man I don't know built a house or bought an apartment, worked his whole life, spent his whole life out, gave up, then in '47. Or I don't know '50. and for some years you've lost him, and you haven't actually wronged anyone. And what I say once again, let's make gentlemen an analysis to really see what can be expected at some point or what these relevant requests of foreigners have arrived for, etc. What we're going to do with that property, however, that changed the owner, whether it went into conversion, whether the apartments were given to our citizens. For the citizens of the clear state, it is necessary to damage material foreigners, for those from conversion, so I would even suggest a natural restitution, well that's a little ominous, but it would be fair. Because ex-Yugoslavia has taken something from some former owner, and the Republic of Croatia has taken it from itself through conversion and privatisation. This law means it won't be passed so soon. Fig policy in the pocket is not a good policy, but it is interesting how the return will be done. So, the compensation established in shares or shares from the portfolio of the Agency for the Management of State Property, if it goes into shares, is garbage and no one will accept and return in nature, but it is true that here it is talking about bonds that will ultimately cost the Republic of Croatia dearly, but it is the most honest and will surely be accepted. The question is whether this law will be passed in 9 months, and to that I ask the answer or 10, it does not matter, before the elections, and to this I ask the answer of the current minister, Mr Bošnjakovic. Article 1 is also interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77110	Okay, thank you very much. You're already in red. ... He just wanted to compliment. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now's your chance. SDP advocates' club, Ms. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77111	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The SDP Club will not support this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Compensation Act seized during the Yugoslav Communist Government, although here, speaking on behalf of the club, I express bitterness, concern almost and revilation that the Government is holding hands on the heart of the sale here at the end of its term of office what remains. As if by this law he means to tell the elected peoples and peoples of all countries, look for more which is not assigned and shared. What's '99. the year was filed in law and where it was right to deny at all any stranger the possibility of getting something that should be obtained by Croatian citizens was prohibited. Now you've changed the board. And the truth really must be because this isn't about any damage compensation, it's about compensation where it has to always count for limited opportunities. And for righteousness and for solidarity. All the laws we passed, small 4 laws, given that you have suspended the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations when houses were collapsed and property was destroyed by Croatian citizens, and then after 2000 they paid for it and still paid for by all Croatian citizens, without being convicted of who destroyed the house and other people's property. But even these people are not fully compensated for the principle of solidarity and limited opportunities. So, when the Constitutional Court was in '99. the year abolished certain norms of the existing law at that time we had the opportunity to comply with the law with the constitutional decision and had just resolved in the full Constitution the acceptable way where it was prescribed that the previous owner had no right to compensation in the event that the issue of compensation was settled by international agreements which is quite normal, and it is acceptable that the exceptional rights could be acquired by natural and legal persons if they were determined by interstate agreements. So we just put the theoretical possibility of Croats being able to acquire property. And they didn't go into other people's areas, they barely could, barely today can preserve their property. That is why we are protesting in a way and we are opposed to Croatians being also Croatian citizens of their own country. And as my colleague Cain mentioned to the ambassadors, we know that certain stakeholders are going to our government, whether in general individual members of the government are looking for and you're giving everything away and giving everything away. You are secretly giving and publicly drilling to protect the property of Croatia and national interests it is visible through this law. And on the trail of what counterpart Cain said, mentioning these ambassadors, the question really arises whether, in spite of this law, Croatia needs a Croatian ambassador to Croatia, who protects Croatia's interests more. Are we going to pay all those again, among them are they... all those who have been compensated by international contracts, the basic principle of both our rights and our international rights no one can, on two different grounds, receive compensation for the same thing. So this is a political law that adds to some stakeholders, not leading and not caring about the ownership of neither the state nor the units of local self-government or the ownership of Croatian citizens. We forgot the Law on Tourist Land, where we actuate the law on tourist land to Croatian citizens the right of this property fee law taken away during the Yugoslav communist rule. These people, where the nationalized land, where once the socialist factories that were then privatised and now privates have either destroyed them or reorientated for some other activity or part of the land, have never been detained for the purpose of these people, and today they are waiting for the return of a special Law on tourist land to be wiped out and annihilated and not returned to them. The first point of our agenda today, and that is, by emergency procedure, the final draft law on the assessment of the effects of the regulations. Now let's see how at the third point, we've come to the sense of it, and then the government says in an assessment of the resources needed to implement the law that can't be predicted from a distance, that's true, so we're going to keep this bill until you know how much it takes. So you can't say "Government" or predict how much an authority or search engine can be and how much it will be for you. Therefore, some data have been collected from the county administrations, those who have submitted requests, however, are spoken on the third page as I repeat at all, cannot predict how much these powers will be in the light of such a proposal for a law at all, and what justice is retroactive and where legal certainty is above all for local citizens when, despite the legitimately rejected or rejected demands, it allows the possibility of repeated requests, and even for various transactions, not only because they had no right under the existing law without these amendments. We're talking about some administrative court decisions here. Therefore, the Administrative Court is obvious to the Government above the Constitutional Court because as was resolved in 2002, it was fair in relation to its own citizens, but also for foreigners as well as for the principle of reciprocity. So, think about it a little bit more, I believe that that's why there may not be an opportunity, everything you give, everything you give, but it will have to be paid by some other government, but let us governments of these and those, will pay for by Croatian citizens, it is not fair and it is not fair. This is an unfair law because Croatia has not yet returned property first and foremost taken away from Croatian citizens who have been here all this time and where instead of returning, their property is still owned and our bodies are being made deaf, dumb and blind, and the laws that eliminate them are being passed. I must also mention the large protest of the association of cities protesting this way because exactly what was social property or was previously called general property where the state and units of local self-government disputed for ownership and we expected exactly that for the development of cities, units of generally local self-government to finally resolve the issue of ownership of such properties. One of the objectives of the government's action plan to remove obstacles to investment in Croatia with a deadline for completion in December 2011 is to resolve the property legal relationship between the state and local self-government. Now instead of solving this problem, it is ultimately the government's action plan, you solve it by giving it and giving it to those who have already received compensation in their home countries in view of international contracts and non-reparation of war damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77112	Thank you. A few corrections. First, Madam Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, there are so many incorrect facts that it is not possible to correct all of this, but here is perhaps one of the most conclatant that Mrs. Advocacy repeated at the end of the exhibition, and that someone will be paid twice who has already been compensated by the basis of an international contract in their country. My colleague Anticevic needs to read the bill. In this Proposal for a Law in Article 3(3), paragraph 12a. the previous owner does not have the right to repossess property in the event that the issue of compensation has already been settled by an interstate agreement. It's beautifully clear and loud and it's simply a lie. It is also true that today we allow something that was allowed until 99. So today, we clearly stipple what the Constitutional Court decided to order the then government to arrange, so there were five delays not arranged and finally arranged unclearly, and then the case-law based on this was unequal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77114	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77115	My colleagues, that's quite clear. But I'm not talking about it, I'm talking about now that these rights are being given to optants who are being compensated.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77116	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a controversy, please. It's not a business injury. It's a controversy again. Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77117	Whatever it is, someone's nationalizing your property. I'm aware that you've come to the same normally. Revolutionary legislation, so I guess we'll give it up. It's not true that something's coming back to the optan, it's not true. If it comes back then it will return to those who have been fired by Yugoslav citizenship, such demands have been thousand and a hundred, and the optanators were over 90 and some thousand with children 130,000. The Constitutional Court annulled the provision that denationalisation could only be done to domestic citizens. The point is, they've been communist authorities since '45. Until '50. and some simply hijacked the property of hundreds of thousands of Jews who were in the camps, until I know at least 100 families in Italy who were in the Partisan movement they resisted and have no right to compensation they lost everything. And understandably, there is one historical injustice that needs to be corrected today. And it agrees that Croatian citizens. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77118	Okay. Mr. Representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77119	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the first time I've agreed with my colleague Caine, who corrected the incorrect quote of colleague Anticevic, and my colleague Lovrin has corrected it. I will correct the allegations when she said that Croatia will become tenants in the Croatian state. That's not true. Croatians are just when compared to other Europeans and among others in the world among the largest owners of real estate, apartments, etc. The house. About 90% of the property owned by Croatian citizens. And second fellow Members, this government doesn't give anything to anyone, it doesn't give anything primarily, and already your communist parties haven't taken away people before.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77120	Mr Goran Beus Richembergh: Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77121	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Representatives, colleagues and fellow MPs. If anything about the return of property deserved then she didn't deserve our hypocrisy and double criteria, and there's no authority there since the '90s until today that has a clean cheek. 21 years have passed since the Croatian Multiparty Assembly was established. To this day, no historical injustices have been corrected that for the second time were taken away and then, by not returning, an insult, a shame. And we are offered this model of robbery as something that should be taken for granted. It was fully expected that the Communist Party, which had promised the social revolution since 1920, as the end of World War II neared, would have to face its promises. From 1942 from the Focan regulations until 1948 until the decommissioning of camps for members of the national minorities at the level of Yugoslavia and Croatia, several dozen regulations were passed which were actually taken away from the property needed to carry out the social revolution through confiscation, nationalisation, through agrarian reform. The Croatian Parliament too has a stain as big as the night on its soul because in 1947 it passed a law establishing a robbery and kidnapping for about 400,000 citizens. This is unfortunately not the subject of these changes and additions because the Ministry of Justice has been selectively accessing this problem, so 21 years after the formation of the multi-party parliament, we still haven't paid back and paid our debt to our own citizens. If someone's political ideology had imposed a private property charge so that they could fulfill promises of collective well-being, social peace, redistribution of social wealth, in the 1990s, that ideology was no longer on the agenda. But she didn't seem to be, she stayed alive in the heads of many people who decided that, so she's alive today. Because there's a real Mrs. Anticevic in one. This bill is selective and will leave outside a fair solution a large number of Croatian citizens who also have the right to compensation and return of property. Ms. Anticevic rightly indicates that it did not approach meaningfully, fully and correctly. But this is an attempt to at least partially correct historical injustice. We can be principled against such a proposal because it is hypocritical and only partially correcting injustice, but are we going to contribute to solving the problem or are we going to delay it? In this sense, the position of the CNS and HSU is private property is one of the constitutional values according to our Constitution and should be consistent there. In 1944 AVNOJ made a decision with far - reaching consequences. Based on that '43 attitude. the year that all the servants of the occupier and all the foreign citizens will actually be put outside the law. '43. It still doesn't talk about taking away property, but it takes for granted the fact that some national minority without their knowledge, without their consent, has declared citizens of other states. '44. A far-reaching decision is made that practically every member of the national minority whose home people lived in any of the countries that participated in World War II on the side of the defeated forces was put outside the law, not only was it taken away from him all property, not only were his rights taken away but he was happy if he survived at all. Let us not forget, from 1944 to 1948, there were more than 70 gathering concentration and work camps for members of only the German and Austrian national minorities. About the Italians and their exodus not to talk, about part of the Hungarian minority that I don't speak, or other minorities. What the Ustasha did in '41, '42. The year was practically left frozen after '45. To the Jews, and their property was taken away. And if we want to be completely consequential then we have to admit that tens of thousands of people were expelled from their homes, that they were trapped in concentration camps, that every form of pressure was being put on them to give up Yugoslav citizenship and to go into an exodus. Those who had a spot on their conscience, those who could have been an international right, and also the domestic right of the then Kingdom of Yugoslavia, found and taken over by AVNOJ's decisions or improved by AVNOJ and ZAVNOH's decisions, were prosecuted for what they did during the occupation from 1941 to 1945, they mainly did not welcome in '44, '45. i.e. the release of Croatian sites. They left in '42, '43. and '44, but tens of tens and tens of thousands of people terrified of information that happens in countries freed by the Red Army and in areas where the People's Liberation Army and the Partisan Orders of Yugoslavia take control. So what happens to the members of the national minorities, terrified of this information, is they carry what we are in '91, '92. Unfortunately, they saw on their example again, carrying only a bag or at least what they could carry. And then it was forbidden more than what stood in the wagon. They know the Slavons well, they know the Barans well, they know the Streams well what they're talking about. And where these people ended up, and those who ran away in fear with big eyes, and nowhere alive had their relatives or anything to do with anyone in those countries because their ancestors moved in 100, 150 or 200 years ago. They fled saving their own lives, arriving in refugee camps, being treated as third-country nationals, arriving in occupied areas of Austria and Germany divided into four occupation zones. They were treated as a physical workforce and were accused of being one of the causes of the collapse of their national countries of origin. Until the 1960s, these people lived on the edge of society, without citizenship, without paper, without being able to provide themselves and their children with any future, and their graves remained there. Between them and those who were in '44, '45, '46. until 1948 organized G wagons carried out on the run, but also tens of thousands of those who after 1948 were happy until the end of the 1970s if they could buy the right to release from Yugoslav citizenship so that they could move out. It is not true, then, that this proposal would damage those who have already defiled the countries in which they went through war damage. That's not true, the law here makes it clear. But it is true that those who were left without anything, humiliated and without their homeland because only this country was considered their own and felt in it as their own, as descendants of the third, fourth, fifth or perhaps sixth and more generations, they actually went and shortly after the war in... They signed a famous charter of exiles, in which they gave up any hatred, any revenge, just cried out to us, and we are ready to build a united Europe on the brightest traditions. [[You don't understand.]] These are the people today, the old people who just want to come to see the grave of their ancestors, and among them are those who want to lie down in the land where they were born. Is it possible for a righteous society to rest on a robbery, it cannot, and therefore it is the turn of the Croatian Parliament to correct historical injustices and enable all those who are not compensated to exercise the right to return, to prove their right to return and to participate in the return? But it is humiliating to say that it will last 12 years because many of them will die at that time, and their children, taught by the experience and fate of their parents, will never say that they come from here because they do not want to go through that crap that their parents who were not considered members of that nation had to drown in. This is a matter of justice and humanity, as well as a question of the consistency of our government that proposes this law. In parallel with this proposal, in our official procedure, the same name of the law that we are trying to correct the historical injustice against the people who were taken away from property in the land communities in 1947. For 20 years, they have been breaking the threshold of the Croatian Parliament, begging to understand their problem, watching their grandfatherhood grow up in a shika or being the subject of a culinary, speculant and bandit trade and speculation. And then he's afraid of the Croatian public and it's said that the Croatian state will be left without everything it has, will run out of agricultural land, will run out of forest land. No, it's not true, it's going to be without what she's never acquired, but it's taking away, and unfortunately it won't be returned to those who own it because after all these decades, and it's been 50 and more, in some cases it's 60 and more years, there's no one left alive to ask for his what was his, what was his father's and his grandfather's. In 1996 and 2002, when the debate over the return of property seized during the Yugoslav communist rule was promised hills and valleys, many naive people who believed that a return would be made, that they would be equalized legally, and those who have so far been allowed to return to them are many of those who have not been given what they belong to today because they always have someone over the line, always someone who has a brake, always someone who may be waiting for someone to die. Now, that's a disgrace to the state. It's a disgrace to our public service. See how many people in the county offices are dealing with the problem of return, so you will see how many years this process will be completed if ever. Therefore, this proposal only partially corrects the historical injustice. He hypocritically admits that there are several hundred thousand people in Croatia who are interested in amending this Law because they have been kidnapped as well. How many of these rights would take advantage of that's another thing, but that's their thing, because it's their property. So, the hypocrisy that we're going through right now, we're going to have to get in the way of, because this is one small step in that direction. But if anything else he removed a fig leaf from the nakedness of our injustice.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77122	Thank you. A few corrections. First Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77123	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So a colleague said the Croatian Parliament made a decision in 1947. Well, he didn't bring the Croatian Parliament because that's not what he was called. It was brought by the Socialist Republic of Croatia Parliament, which was exclusively an instrument of the Communist Party, an instrument in the service of the totalitarian criminal regime of the Communist Party that ruled until the 1990s in Croatia. Therefore, it was not the Croatian Parliament. He was only a Parliament on paper. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77124	Injury of the Rules of Procedure in what?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77125	Mr. Vice President, my colleague Matusic made a valuable point, and he didn't correct my claim because I would just remind him if the communists were such that we were worse than them?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77126	Come on, please! His name was the National Republic of Croatia Assembly, sir. Yeah. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77127	Mr. Beus Richemberg, you spoke of two historical injustices. In doing so, you mentioned the confiscation and non-return, and then there was another historical injustice, a criminal nascaradic privatisation and conversion that is something similar to those two that you have already cited. It's a correction, so it's not two historical injustices, it's three historical injustices.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77128	And three historical injustices.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77129	Here it is. And yet, you mentioned what happened in '41. The year of Ustasha rule, the taking away of the property of the Jews. But you must know, and you know when you know such a good history that the communist government also took away the Jews' property.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77130	Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77131	Yeah, it's not a problem in returning the kidnapped. That clearly needs to be done. The problem is privatisation, as Grubisic says. '91. Until '92. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77132	The problem is that you're correcting an incorrect claim...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77133	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77134	What incorrect hard-core are you correcting? You've reached out to correct the incorrectly hard-working representative of Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77135	... And the return problem here. [[Specially enabled.]] That's how it got so much more lost than it's going to be under this law. This law weighs 1 billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77136	Whatever, it didn't say anything about it, not a word Mr. Representative Richembergh said.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77137	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77138	Come on, please! You can't, because you're not correcting an incorrect quote. [[Intruder Cain: May I say till the end?]] Well, you're aware of that. So you see that with such a dear smile you get yourself this one is... And Madam Representative on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77139	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry there isn't a president of the SDP club here who spoke so harshly about this bill and why the SDP club will reject it. Namely, just because it's spoken and the public's work takes a little repeat of the material and makes a historical intersection I'd say passing this law. So, in 1996, the majority of the HDZ assembly passed the Law on the return of property seized during the communist rule just wanting to correct one historic injustice that what was violently kidnapped property that was kidnapped to return to the citizens. The law stipulates that only persons, natural persons, who have Croatian citizenship at the time of the law, have the right to compensation. On the basis of the constitutional suit, the Constitutional Court in 1999 abolished certain provisions of that law and those relating to not being able to physically, foreign persons to have the right to return property. There's something interesting about that '99. the year left for a year to comply with these provisions of the law, and that they are scheduled to be abolished after one year, shall cease to apply. Interestingly, at that time, the Constitutional Court made a new decision five times and extended five times the deadline for the harmonisation of these regulations because the then SDP government and the parliamentary majority did not amend the law. Finally, but that's what I'd say is a familiar manner and a familiar attitude of the SDP that he recognizes the Constitutional Court when the Constitutional Court makes a decision that they like. When that decision is not such that they like it, then the Constitutional Court, and other institutions of this state, also call it the ugliest names and challenge them with every credibility. And then finally in 2002, this law, the provision of the law, was amended in a way that some articles were deleted, and now the current article 10 has been studied. So about what counterpart Antičević wanted to return something to someone again, that poor Croatian citizens in an unequal position were subordinated to foreigners, etc. I would only read that law that was streamlined in 2002 when it seemed to me the lady was a minister or certainly in the ruling majority who said: "The previous owner has no right to compensation for the seized property in case the issue of compensation was settled among the state agreement. It's okay, and it's still on the table today. However, paragraph 2 shall be read as follows: "Extremely from the provision of paragraph 1 of this Article, rights prescribed by this law may also be acquired by foreign natural and legal persons if this is established by an interstate agreement". What does this mean and how this paragraph 2 is read, and that is why the case law has been unequal, and that is why they now need to finally make clear the principles and amendments to the law. So this meant that there was no one, neither Croatian nor foreign citizen, has the right to compensation if it was compensated under an interstate agreement. But it says item 2 is exceptional if it is also damaged then a foreign citizen has the right if an interstate agreement is reached on this. But it certainly wasn't the urgency of the Constitutional Court's decision. The urgency of the Constitutional Court's decision was that foreigners and Croatian citizens are equal in rights because the Constitutional Court considers that the right of ownership should not be tied to citizenship, in this case the right to return ownership. And so here is now the amendment and addition of this law that will finally streamline these provisions, clearly, that constitutional practice is not a different, constitutional practice of a long-standing and administrative court, and hence, the practice of the Ministry of Justice as a secondary body, which in fact in its subsequent decisions has been brought into line with the practice of the Administrative Court, because, ultimately, only by the ruling of the Administrative Court, the issue becomes legally resolved. So in this practice of a few years, it was actually a dispute for foreigners to be entitled to return, although that practice was not in line with the Constitutional Court's decision. Therefore, this law, which is before us, fully resolves the procedure and way of exercising the right to compensation for the confiscated property of foreign natural persons. It is good that here there are 5, 6, 7, 8 articles that detailedly regulate the return procedure, the return conditions, and again I repeat that the draft laws that are ahead of us should be read before they are discussed. In fact, this proposal of the law has been clearly established without any exceptions as to how so far the previous owner, whether he was a domestic natural person or a party, has no right to compensation for the seized property in the event that the issue of compensation has already been settled by interstate agreements. Therefore, the optants will not be returned to anything,... or whatever they're called here, if they're compensated in accordance with the interstate agreement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the sense of this law, it is also determined that non-nationals, i.e. foreign natural persons who had the right to do so and who had dual citizenship, were able to do so as Croatian citizens, if they did not do so, would not have the right under the proposal of this law. Something that may have been promoted, and it is good to stress that it is very clear that this government and we, when we pass this law if we vote it, will therefore be seen to take care of the reciprocal and equal rights of our citizens and our citizens. Therefore, it is said that it is exceptional from paragraph 1, which is that foreign natural persons can exercise the right to compensation for seized property, states of exceptional importance that citizens of countries who have exercised forced confiscation of property in their territory, which is of course all the countries in our environment, the countries of the former Yugoslavia, but also others. For example, the Czech Republic or Slovakia had, so the communist former countries had also been systematically seized, they carried out systematic confiscation of property. So, if it is the citizens of those countries, then they can exercise the rights under this law only on condition that such right is given to Croatian citizens in those countries. So, under the conditions of reciprocity. These provisions are also clearly laid down when foreign natural persons cannot, under this law, be granted property in nature, so to return property in nature, when it is special regulations in the Republic of Croatia for properties which cannot be acquired by foreign nationals under special regulations. And of course and then the fee is determined in another form when, for reasons of lack of reciprocity in the acquisition of property rights between states, between Croatia and the state of which is the citizen of the person requiring the return of real estate. So, as we know in the Republic of Croatia, a stranger can acquire property, but under the conditions of reciprocity with the state of which he is a citizen, so if it is a return of real estate, if it is a citizen of a state with which there is no reciprocity, then he will be compensated in bonds, and will not be returned to real estate. Furthermore, a deadline has been set to compensate the former owners if it is a fee in cash starting on 1 January 2015 to 2034, so over 20 years in semi-annual annuities that is the same for Croatian citizens if it is charged in the bonds of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, this law introduces a unique record of all the requests submitted by foreign natural persons on cases which are being resolved and of the legal end of the procedure in order to make that record unique to the entire State within the Ministry of Justice. It shall also establish the evidence that the applicant must attach, therefore, that it must contain, which data must contain the request and which evidence is supported by the request. In this law, moreover, in order not to remain only on foreigners, so there is another provision which may not be visible in relation to this, but this is a solution in Article 9 which also clearly solves something that has not been clear so far in court practice, i.e. the practice of the Court of Justice has gone in the direction in which the legislator did not make it clear to me and it is the so-called. the cases where one of the heirs requests the return of property if the other heirs did not report for return that he or she is determined by the full estate or by the inheritance mass or by the part which would have belonged to him as one of the heirs, it is now proposed that, after law, he or she should be clearly informed that in the event that the right to compensation is obtained by the legal successors of the first succession order as former owners within the meaning of this article, any heir may be entitled to compensation only for his or her successor part, and I must say that the Ministry of Justice which he or she has dealt with as a second-degree body had to adapt because the court had to strengthen the practice of the administrative court, although we did not so read it from the law. As we can see from the return of property to foreigners, although the decision of the Constitutional Court of 99 is quite clear in the decision written which provision of the Law should be invented where it is determined that they do not have the right to compensation to the party, because of one clumsy corruption in 2002 then the practice of the Administrative Court went in a completely different direction, that practice lasted well 2, 3 years then, at one time, the case law was amended, of course, to be sure that such a solution would require the application for protection of legality and the Supreme Court confirmed that judgment accordingly, this is the reason for the proposed amendment of this Act. Well, we heard it here somewhere in one debate, I think it was my colleague Cain who said that the foreigners were in an extremely favourable situation because now I can apply for the third time, I wouldn't say it was the third time, and that's the second time when they were left with a six-month deadline to ask for a return equally according to these requirements, and they were given the power to rule that they had no right to change this proposal, so they should leave an additional deadline. What we can discuss is that the deadline is unequal to foreign citizens and foreign citizens who have had a 6-month deadline, and is now foreseen in this proposal for foreigners within a year. We got one argument from the Ministry of Justice that it's for a reason because it's about foreigners because they're around the world, while they're even familiar with their rights until they collect documentation, etc., that they need that longer term. There is an open question here and perhaps the proposer might consider whether there is room to open up any deadline for our citizens and, above all, those who had a short six-month deadline in which there were many discrepancies in view of then existing three laws that could be sought back, the Law on Building Land not built, the Law on Exclusion many did not manage to do so, and let's not forget it was in this space and war, it was early beginning in 97 they weren't all ready, not all were in place, many were displaced from their homes and perhaps failed to meet this deadline. So this is a note, maybe the proposer finds a place for it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77140	Thank you. 13.39 hours have elapsed to report a ten-minute hearing. SDSS representative club Mr. Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77141	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is, of course, an important thing for all those people who have not been able to submit claims for the return of property that was taken away after 2. World War II since the former Yugoslav authorities. I agree with those who are thinking that we should consider that our citizens who for various reasons have not been in a position to submit or complete their demands and thus qualify for the process of considering the justification of this requirement are also required to be granted and, in addition, I would take advantage of the opportunity for colleagues and colleagues to recall here for these amendments and the addition of this Act to the fact that it is not only in time as the name of the Law says the Yugoslav Communist Government to take away property in private ownership, but also in the period from 41 to 45, during the independent state of Croatia, it is also even more harshly denied and taken away private property. Especially members of different ethnic and religious communities. In the first row, I remind Serbs and Jews that a part of these people get some sort of compensation based on an agreement with the then state, with the then authorities but that a significant number of people have not been given a chance to compensate or to consider the possibility of restoring lost property rights or compensation for lost property rights. This is, of course, not just about natural persons, but about legal persons, associations, organisations, institutions that have been dissolved and whose property has been taken over and became owned by either the State, or by the persons or institutions to which it has given them. In this way, a kind of legal void was actually created, or some kind of legal limb in which these people are not actually protected in what should be fundamental values, which is protecting property rights, and protecting property rights and protecting rights of availability. In the case that we are talking about between 41 and 45 for a large number of people, none of these rights have been guaranteed. I know what motives were run by the government when it went with this kind of change and supplement. And I know that these motives were not directly related to what I am saying, but there is no doubt if the fundamental motive of the legislator was when this law was passed and now that amendments and amendments are being made, to correct injustices against people whose property has not been recognised and not only has not been recognised but it has to be taken away, that if nothing else should be started to talk about those who, by reason of historical circumstances, have found themselves in a legislative or legal limb and, unfortunately, they are not only legislative but also otherwise recognised in their own law and have not been mentioned in that law. And now is the chance to do it here, now is the chance to say it here. Historical injustices certainly cannot be corrected later in the manner and extent to which they happened, but it is certainly a historical injustice that people have been through since '41. By '45. In particular, members of the Serbian and Jewish communities in Croatia and in the area of the independent state of Croatia, therefore, the area of both today's BiH and the part of today's Serbia, there is no doubt that it is necessary to take care of the fact. The other thing I'd like to say about this law is the fact that we're going to try to make this law as much as possible to recognise private property, try to ensure such compensation for those for whom the state finds a basis for it, and at the same time we should do everything we can to avoid new injustices. And this means that people who are different from the circumstances of war events in both Croatia and parts of the former Yugoslavia have found themselves in a situation to be denied legal opportunities to regulate their status, e.g. admissions to ownership books. And because in these circumstances they were not only able to enter the ownership books, but they believed the decadent and centuries-long experience of the validity of the cadastrian books as a basis not only for possession but also for enjoyment and not only for enjoyment but also for applying for the registration of property so that these people should not be sanctioned by the state being hurried to sign up as owner of their property, on their property, on de facto and deiure of property. And that in this way what has been historically viewed has not been changed in the most different periods of history in the territory of the Republic of Croatia to try to change now and that the situation in the catastro is not recognised but is taken up by the ownership element and state of the one to be entered in the ownership books. I needed to point out these three things for this law. So, the first when the proposal is Wednesday to consider the possibility for Croatian citizens to get some kind of subsequent deadline and, on the other hand, that the necessity to bear in mind the fact that both in the continuity of the former Yugoslav state and on the basis of this continuity in our present state is created one kind of legislative limbo for people who have lost property in the period of '41. By '45. as well as that the state in the handling of the ownership books should respect the situation in the cadastrian books and that the requirements that go in the direction that the discrepancies between the cadastrian and the ownership books go to the harm of those who are listed as cadastrian owners in a long series of years, and in favour of the state, should be stopped so that again in some period we do not have a situation that we must change by law what can be created as an injustice, probably in good faith and not in bad faith. Mr. Vice President, thank you. I thank my colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77142	Thank you. HDSSB club Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77143	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. This law but I will say that I also agree on behalf of the club that he goes to another reading and I believe that until the final proposal of the law one broad public debate should be carried out, since this law must end a long dark night in Croatia. Among other things, it's not clear to many today that after '45. But also in '45. There were communist crimes going on. One of these crimes is confiscation, nationalisation, and even agrarian reform because many in Slavonia have been taken from more than 10 acres of the country. The condemnation of communist crimes is in the programme of the largest left party in Croatia, so today I am surprised by the SDP club's debate against the adoption of this law. I can understand what was happening in Dalmatia during Italy, but also many must understand what was happening in other parts of Croatia where after the release there was indeed an exodus of all those who were not on the side of antifascism and not only those who were not on the side of antifascism actively but also those who were guilty only because they were members of other nationalities. The best example of this is Logor Krndija, through which several tens of thousands of Croatians, German nationalities, many of whom have left their lives, but whose entire property has been taken away. In recent times, since I know and personally several families living in the vicinity of Stuttgart in Germany in Baden-Württemberg, many of them really just want to come back and see their native village, do not want any property and possibly want to be buried. But many of them and their children and grandchildren speak Croatian today. Meanwhile, to show that love for Croatia in the same village they were expelled from, they restored a Catholic church in which, during socialism, artificial fertilisers and held agricultural machinery were held. It's just one of the problems with these crimes and taking away all the property. There's also Jewish property anyway, there's also private property, and remember here I deliberately said a long dark night and everything that happened after the release. I am one of those who claims that the Croatian state was created on the basis of an anti-fascist struggle and I hope that this speech will not lead to the division of Ustasha and Partisans again, and that Ustasha formation was a puppet state in the hands of Adolf Hitler where many Croats, along with other citizens of Croatia, other nationalities who thought different from that regime ended up in camps. All this I'm saying is that here I would open up almost 50 years after these crimes again to some person's eyes to see that there really was an injustice after World War II, during World War II, and that injustice took a long time and a long time because many of them, and I know from that I wouldn't say personal experience, but from the experience of my family, ran out of anything. On the other hand, this law is one of those laws that re-discriminatorys Croatian citizens. Many at that first moment knew neither whether they were informed nor had any idea that there was a possibility of returning what was taken from them, so the HDSSB club asked that this law should therefore apply not only to foreign citizens but also to Croatian citizens who should again be able to seek out what was taken from them during the Yugoslav rule. In any case, this problem cannot and should not be conducted only in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia but should be conducted a broader debate. All international contracts need to be checked, everything the former state has signed for war reparations. Also check all contracts signed by this modern independent state of Croatia. The law provides for a natural return, a return to bonds and a return to money. I wouldn't want what happened to agricultural land to happen in a way that one large part of the land that was after '45. Or '47. They then took over the ZPDs or earthly agricultural goods, which later grew into agricultural-industrial combinations or industrial-agricultural combinations, where many citizens are talking specifically here about Slavonia, lost their land, without their basic living conditions and where they were forced by force to that other exodus which was during the late 1960s and early 1970s to the so-called '70s. early work in Western countries, primarily in Germany where they stayed until today and where as old people are returning home to their homeland and where many of them wanted to invest in the Croatian economy and where during our famous conversions and privatisations by model were known to have been deceived. The HDSSB therefore requires that this law be put into public debate, that the proposer understands that this law should not be served for any pre-election purposes and that this law should be considered in detail and given that there is not much time to pass this law and that it should not be passed immediately, conditionally stated in an emergency procedure in another reading for a month or two rather than that this law should be passed and adopted by the next assembly of the Croatian Parliament, because this law is one of the laws which first of all owes the Republic of Croatia, but also a law which must definitely solve one of the greatest communist crimes, which is the confiscation of property. I believe that we have enough time and that we should not go as Stjepan Radić would say as the geese in the fog or throat of strawberries but that this law should be passed only in the next assembly of the Parliament, but a law that will definitely be fair for all those who had property in the Republic of Croatia, whether they are now foreign citizens or were Croatian citizens and that, under the same conditions, Croatian citizens should be given the same right and the same chance to come to their property because they have earned it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77144	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77145	Well, I have to correct my colleague when he's talking specifically about members of the German national minority and the exodus they've experienced. You should say that it's... the contracts resolved the question of reparation or compensation to German citizens or Germans, ethnic Germans who were after '45. Immigrants to the Federal Republic of Germany. [[You don't understand.]] And that this is a quality solution to the question tells the fact that 3 million students lost every right in the Czech Republic, today the Czech Republic, the former Czechoslovakia, and that the Federal Republic of Germany did not make this a condition for the Czech Republic's admission. I'm only talking about the fact that you called for a problem after you said you needed to study international agreements and contracts. And that's where I fix them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77146	We're going to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. There have been very impressive emotional steps and speeches in the debate so far, and I would ask myself for a start, and how long will Croatia have to go back and how is it that no one has to pay back, compensate or damage to Croatian citizens and Croatia so far, or why is this topic now reopening? Is there an inventory in the Ministry of Justice or in the Government after the possible and the adoption of these amendments to the law to which we still owe. Let's say in two, to three, four next year, for which we'll still have to change the law in order to exercise the right to return something or compensation for something. And the most common words used are the correcting of historical injustice. So if we're talking about correcting historical injustices why this law doesn't apply to property taken between 1941 and '45. Wasn't there then an act of historical injustice that consisted of taking away property? After all, is it not clear to Croatia yesterday that it is being ordered to repay or compensate or depriving property owners seized during the NDH. Sooner or later, you want to admit it now or not, this request from the front page or news page will be here in the Croatian Parliament in the form of a bill. Because those who demand it from Croatia are too strong players to stand up to this or any authority. But it seems to me that many who have spoken have not read or at least seen interstate contracts concluded between the former Yugoslavia and, say, Hungary, Austria or Germany. I think they came after 1948. Some from '53, fifth and sixth. And on these contracts concluded between these countries, the issue of compensation of private property seized in any way is regulated and clearly prescribed that neither these countries nor the citizens of those countries have the right to claim any property, compensation or otherwise to make a claim, and that the private property and damage they have suffered must be compensated by those States. Since the reason for the law is only two figures that can serve as much as they can, which is that we have registered 4211 requirements for the assessment of 752 million kuna values, and the last list of these 4211 requests has been circulating since 2007 so I guess that's what this is about. Now I ask, has anyone checked whether there are those who could and have failed to resolve the compensation issue with the countries that signed this Agreement after World War II on their behalf. What happened to citizens, citizens of the Republic of Croatia who missed the deadline of submission of claims for the return of kidnapped property that was only six months. Did we once extend that deadline by changing the law? We didn't. Is a new deadline now being proposed? No, I don't. What about those who knew about the law, and they missed the application? They lost their right. Now, I'm asking if this law provides for such a clause, and I haven't found it that among those 4211 applicants there were those who could make peace with the states signatories of those contracts, and they failed to do so for any reason. Either they didn't know or they didn't want to or they shouldn't have. Are we going to confess to them, too? Second, it has made little effort to explain or assess the state of the law as to what interstate agreements are meant in Article 3(3) or Article 12a. the new Article 12a. The law. Whether interstate agreements already in place, which Croatia has taken over from the former state as legal acts regulating the area, are considered. If these are interstate agreements, then I must remind you that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the Međimurje area lost the right to return property they had on the territory of today's Hungary, which they lost in similar ways as the Hungarians in Croatia then Yugoslavia. But that question is settled by that agreement if you think of them. So neither the citizens of then-Yugoslavia nor the citizens of Hungary of that time were able to make claims for return, compensation or compensation for understanding but perhaps calming passion. This could or at least be indicated in the opening statement by the Minister in which interstate agreements are meant in the new Article 12a. And secondly, it would be good if these agreements, if they did not, and I have not been able to verify it, were published in the National Journal so that they should not use those publications from the Belgrade editions of the official papers, so probably even then many in this Chamber or in the Croatian public would be more clear what it is about. And I end up with the next question, does returning to history and correcting historical injustices end in 1945 or 1941 or 1918? Who and when will conclude and make a decision by what year do we go back to correcting historical injustices?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77148	Thank you. Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77149	Well, Mr. Vice President and Secretary of State, this is certainly one of the laws that always causes unrest, different approaches or from historical and other circumstances that my representatives, but also the entire interested public, have behind them. When this law was passed, I was not a parliamentary representative, but I asked myself why it was only the name of the law that spoke of the refund of property seized during the Yugoslav communist rule when the first, conditionally said nationalisation after World War I was made in 1941. Whether because that nationalization was done in a way that owners were physically eliminated from this world or simply because they did not want to admit some historical facts for these or those reasons. When I say that, I have in mind a place where the minister of justice of the Republic of Croatia sits today. It is a building that was taken away in 1941 by members of Jewish nationality who ended up in the camp, which was then inherited by the Yugoslav government and the Yugoslav state, and then in '91, I am now talking about formal public and interstate agreements, and the Croatian state. There's probably heirs or maybe they don't exist, but those facts aren't known because they're supposed to be somewhere in '91. Or '92. Some documents were taken from this House that spoke of the seized property to members of the Jewish people in the Republic of Croatia and destroyed. The Yugoslav state has been making a decision to subtract in 6 copies. They delivered and you didn't have the right to appeal, you didn't have the right to postpone, you didn't have the legal remedy, but you had the paper. They're '41. There's only one document, and that document actually doesn't exist anymore. And the fact is that the most injustice when it comes to the return of property is done, and it's hard to quantify both pain and grief and suffering of people who created honorably and honestly, I'm not talking about the mechanics and those who in other ways got those assets, but the fact that this is, that these members have lost every right along with losing loved ones. And when it comes to this law, he is therefore emotional, emotional, but in the finale it all comes down to value, to material compensation, in one way or another, but which we impose on future generations to be paid by taxpayers. And there must be, and I agree with my colleague Lesar, a draw drawn once and for all, I won't say it forever because there's nothing forever, but that once and for all, this Parliament and these laws that we make may not be the final solution, but this law should end that story. And I join, too, I wrote down that my colleague Lesar would not think I was copying his proposal, I also wrote in the proposal of this law at 12a – the previous owner does not have the right to compensation for the seized property in the event that the matter of compensation has already been settled by interstate agreements. Who, what or what? That's how I was taught in elementary school. I wasn't very good at grammar, but I think you should write among other things... the agreements, the Austrian State Treaty, the Hungarian, Bosnian agreements, I spoke when, there was no other variant, so I apologized for the correction of the incorrect allegations, there was little abuse, with the favored smile of the chairman, the Rules of Procedure, but there was no possibility of a replica, so I used the correction when talking about German people in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if we go to the literal application of each of these laws, gentlemen of Slavonia, many of you are Herzegovic, Krajina, Dalmatian, second generation, where will you go back? I mean, everything has its own justification, all that's possible is we'll just do other historical injustices. And so I think that what is said about the second reading and the second reading more precisely determine what it refers to, because if we sign up today in some laws, the Yugoslav regulations that have become Croatian regulations then and the contracts that the former state has signed and which we inherited should make them clear. And definitely the law can be better, I'm not saying it's bad than it can be better, more precise, and really get closer to what we want to say here we finally closed that page. The site, given the historical circumstances in Croatia, is indeed large, numerous and, as counterpart Lesar said, the question of where we could go back, I think Boro Grubisic said to Turks or Vinkovic, but I think that further from the Turks we would go to correct the injustices and we will not correct them. But then, in the corrections of these injustices, let us not be the new wrongdoers who will harm future generations of our Croats and Croats from these places, lest we create a new obligation for them. It can be read politically that there are no European pressures, there are some oversea pressures that I also accept because I have spoken mostly of the people of the Jewish people who have essentially been through the worst in this return of property. And finally, the greatest injustice to really give time to our fellow citizens who did not use the law prescribed by the deadline when the basic law was passed in 97 so that they can bear whether they will be granted, whether they meet the criteria, criteria and all of these elements that the law should achieve on this basis, but the important thing is that some citizens of Croatia who have missed that deadline do not feel the citizens of the second order in relation to this moment most foreign citizens, non-citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Vice President and Secretary of State, this is certainly one of the laws that always causes unrest, different approaches or from historical and other circumstances that my representatives, but also the entire interested public, have behind them. When this law was passed, I was not a parliamentary representative, but I asked myself why it was only the name of the law that spoke of the refund of property seized during the Yugoslav communist rule when the first, conditionally said nationalisation after World War I was made in 1941. Whether because that nationalization was done in a way that owners were physically eliminated from this world or simply because they did not want to admit some historical facts for these or those reasons. When I say that, I have in mind a place where the minister of justice of the Republic of Croatia sits today. It is a building that was taken away in 1941 by members of Jewish nationality who ended up in the camp, which was then inherited by the Yugoslav government and the Yugoslav state, and then in '91, I am now talking about formal public and interstate agreements, and the Croatian state. There's probably heirs or maybe they don't exist, but those facts aren't known because they're supposed to be somewhere in '91. Or '92. Some documents were taken from this House that spoke of the seized property to members of the Jewish people in the Republic of Croatia and destroyed. The Yugoslav state has been making a decision to subtract in 6 copies. They delivered and you didn't have the right to appeal, you didn't have the right to postpone, you didn't have the legal remedy, but you had the paper. They're '41. There's only one document, and that document actually doesn't exist anymore. And the fact is that the most injustice when it comes to the return of property is done, and it's hard to quantify both pain and grief and suffering of people who created honorably and honestly, I'm not talking about the mechanics and those who in other ways got those assets, but the fact that this is, that these members have lost every right along with losing loved ones. And when it comes to this law, he is therefore emotional, emotional, but in the finale it all comes down to value, to material compensation, in one way or another, but which we impose on future generations to be paid by taxpayers. And there must be, and I agree with my colleague Lesar, a draw drawn once and for all, I won't say it forever because there's nothing forever, but that once and for all, this Parliament and these laws that we make may not be the final solution, but this law should end that story. And I join, too, I wrote down that my colleague Lesar would not think I was copying his proposal, I also wrote in the proposal of this law at 12a – the previous owner does not have the right to compensation for the seized property in the event that the matter of compensation has already been settled by interstate agreements. Who, what or what? That's how I was taught in elementary school. I wasn't very good at grammar, but I think you should write among other things... the agreements, the Austrian State Treaty, the Hungarian, Bosnian agreements, I spoke when, there was no other variant, so I apologized for the correction of the incorrect allegations, there was little abuse, with the favored smile of the chairman, the Rules of Procedure, but there was no possibility of a replica, so I used the correction when talking about German people in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if we go to the literal application of each of these laws, gentlemen of Slavonia, many of you are Herzegovic, Krajina, Dalmatian, second generation, where will you go back? I mean, everything has its own justification, all that's possible is we'll just do other historical injustices. And so I think that what is said about the second reading and the second reading more precisely determine what it refers to, because if we sign up today in some laws, the Yugoslav regulations that have become Croatian regulations then and the contracts that the former state has signed and which we inherited should make them clear. And definitely the law can be better, I'm not saying it's bad than it can be better, more precise, and really get closer to what we want to say here we finally closed that page. The site, given the historical circumstances in Croatia, is indeed large, numerous and, as counterpart Lesar said, the question of where we could go back, I think Boro Grubisic said to Turks or Vinkovic, but I think that further from the Turks we would go to correct the injustices and we will not correct them. But then, in the corrections of these injustices, let us not be the new wrongdoers who will harm future generations of our Croats and Croats from these places, lest we create a new obligation for them. It can be read politically that there are no European pressures, there are some oversea pressures that I also accept because I have spoken mostly of the people of the Jewish people who have essentially been through the worst in this return of property. And finally, the greatest injustice to really give time to our fellow citizens who did not use the law prescribed by the deadline when the basic law was passed in 97 so that they can bear whether they will be granted, whether they meet the criteria, criteria and all of these elements that the law should achieve on this basis, but the important thing is that some citizens of Croatia who have missed that deadline do not feel the citizens of the second order in relation to this moment most foreign citizens, non-citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77151	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77152	Thank you, Mr. President, just one little correction. And that's when you said, for anyone, so I generally say the worst went. I think everyone who's been taken away from is the worst who's never been returned. Thus there is the association of the personal parish of Boricevic, which is located in Bjelovar. So, just from the parish of Boricevic 41, 2,600 people were exiled, and in 45 years, it's actually their way of saying "legal kidnapping." They were transferred to different parts of Croatia as people's enemies never where they were brought in any substitute for what was taken from them, and never after that their rights were met. So let's say they're now looking for a correction of land books to actually enter into their property. So here's my support for this bill, but so anyone who's damaged actually went through the worst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77153	Replica Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77154	You see, dear colleague, there are us in Slavonia who are before amoeba, slippers and the Pannonian Sea and we will still remain there and we are proud of all those who came from Bosnia, Dalmatia, Herzegovina and Zagorje, and also Zagorje, from Like, from Bania, a little less from Bania and Kordun but more from like. But you have to understand here I agree that once in a while you need to draw the line and say when it is when an injustice is corrected. And I'm not one of those who measures injustice. After 2. World War II but also during World War II. The World War, if you listened to my debate, I said that huge injustices were committed and that many were left without their house, without their tailoring shops, post-its shops, Đakovo was a city of craftsmen only because they were either German nationalities, and what was the most absurd people who survived the concentration camps returned to Đakovo was also taken away from them because they were declared socialist cults, etc. This is why the long dark night in Croatia should end, which is why the HDSSB advocates a broader debate. A debate in which there will be no such elements in which there will be doubts etc. And sometimes it's hard to admit and drive the party out of itself that it's really a crime. After all, if you've read the SDP program as long as I've been a colleague of Vujic's, there was only one grammatical mistake in not condemning communist victims but communist crimes, and these are one of the greatest communist crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77155	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77156	I also agree with my colleague Bagaric, and with you that anyone who has been taken away from anything in a fair and legal way means not only those whose grandfather or grandfather it was, but the fact that I mentioned Slavonia, I said because Slavonia had experienced according to what I learned, I do not deal with the long past three colonizations. During the NDH and during the new Yugoslavia, and the fact is that this line should therefore be underlined because returning to all possible injustices that have been done in taking away nationalisation definitely leads us to unnecessary ideological differences rather than to discussing victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77157	They're replicas, not colleagues, Vinkovic. There's no member of 209th that's a replica. Don't give an additional explanation on behalf of the club, Boro Grubisic will now speak, and you will then tell everyone on the replica. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a good word from Mr. Hanzek, and I whispered to him that there are long-standing Turks who would still be looking under this law, their first inheritance order, because this law extended the possibility of seeking what was taken away from Luke Ibreshimovic and the Croatian Uprising in Slavonia. In fact, he said well of his colleague Bagarić speaking about Boščevac on Lica but we have Zrin in Banovina, we have Spain as well as the new village between Pakrac and Slavonska Požega, we have Udbin and a number of people who are driven out of the Krbavina field without any compensation, etc., but I didn't mean to talk about it because we are going back to that Ustasha, Partisans and Croatia should go ahead and into a modern age with young generations and with young educated, smart people who we will make this legal proposal if we go through this way again with the new come to say the monetary debt of the Republic of Croatia and the debt that will extend to 2034, and the debt amounts to the current calculation on the basis of 4211 claims for the return of foreign persons, the citizen of that debt for the first hand according to some calculation is 100 million euros, so the debt of the Republic of Croatia and will probably be opened to the communist rule. Why am I saying that this possibility is even greater? Well, because other than the owners who took away the property are now included, it's a newspaper, and the first inheritance order. So, the children of those who were taken away from that property. Furthermore, which is an injustice if persons who have dual citizenship are thus Croatian and, let's say, Austrian or someone else is not allowed to apply, because they have Croatian citizenship. And even in the words of Article 12a, it is said that those who, along with foreign citizenship, have Croatian citizenship are not considered to be foreign individuals and thus lose the right to apply for Croatian citizenship. So, in addition to all the fact that this legislative proposal does not even mention Croatian citizens who had a chance for only 6 months, and I say weak information had a chance to apply for compensation for the seized property and that in '98. A year. If they can't handle it, the turkey dot doesn't work and it's over. For what? At this point, therefore, it is not even permitted to apply to foreign citizens who have Croatian citizenship along with foreign citizenship. So rigorous for those who are also Croatian citizens. Furthermore, which is why the Ministry of Justice is quite certain, I do not believe that you are uninformed that there are already interstate agreements as said with Austria, Hungary, Germany, Exceptional agreements with Italy where in these agreements these people have been compensated through now these parent states have been compensated for the loss of assets in the former SFRY. And now, as Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic said, on two grounds, we are going to re-compensate or compensation for property seized in the Yugoslav communist rule and to make a new fee. Is that normal? Can that be made up twice? Also during the reparation contract, the German state also reparated war damage to Yugoslavia, so I probably don't know about the distribution... between the republics of the former Yugoslavia, but quite certainly Croatia entered. So, the things that I have to say and the things I have to say are now being excavated. Whose interest is that? Either negotiations with some EU countries or some others have made certain demands to Croatia that are so big or the press is so much that they do not respect the interstate agreements, and the compensation is promised. I don't know that. That's probably what the negotiators know. Is there anything else behind that? So, does it stand out that someone has been agreed that there is pressure, and even so much pressure that even the interstate contracts of this government and the state do not respect those countries with which there are contracts from earlier, which the SFRY has concluded, but the new Croatian state probably deny what any achievements there may have had some different standards, there are some different promises to those who seek the compensation of their assets seized during the communist rule. This country to say. So if correcting historical injustice is the objective of this legislative proposal, then in any case, we should define what this refers to, to whom does this apply, are interstate contracts above legal proposals? They say they are. And are these interstate contracts that have been concluded still valid for the Republic of Croatia and for the countries with which that contract was concluded between then the former state of SFRY ex Yugoslavia and those countries? That is why I say that this law is selective in any case, so it does not apply to Croatian citizens but only to the sides and even to those who have dual citizenship, so not only is it selective but it is also discriminatory about it. He is discriminatory because he does not give domestic people, Croatian citizens a chance to look for them. So this is now for the third time being sought so it is possible for foreign citizens, and Croatian citizens are given the possibility 6 months of '98. A year. Since despite the claims made for the return of the property of our citizens, so within the time limit set was '98. For years, we still have a large number of unsolved cases. We have a large, large number of unsolved cases. I know personally and some of the Brod-Posavina County, and I'm not going to name names, and why is this office so slow to deal with? And these are subjective and objective circumstances, but do not resolve domestic requirements, the demands of those who live here, Croatian citizens, and to say to introduce new selective legal regulations to which foreigners are given this possibility, it is indeed discriminatory. Therefore, this legislative proposal simply needs to experience significant changes and changes, and then we can talk about it again and give our opinion in terms of either red or green light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77159	We have one replica of Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77160	Dear counterpart Grubisic, in fact the replica of not getting a correction or violation of the Rules of Procedure, will be more relevant to the esteemed colleague of Hanžek, but you are right when you said that this law should not only go through another reading but rather a broad public debate because from this debate in the Assembly it is clear how much this law opens up the problem among other things. But regarding Slavonia itself, here is the time to say so, and for that reason should be given a chance for Croatian citizens, where he is there at the end of the '50s, for example. The surrounding area and the environment of the entire Lake of Peru was moved and moved practically to Slavonia where a virtue, today’s virtue, was moved to Djakovo. I grew up in a street like that used to be called Regal Weissa, and now it's called Francis Rackey where he is, for example. One stolen brick from one doctor who was on the side of an anti-fascist struggle, and enough was to point two at him and say he was working with the Germans and was shot and taken away from him all his property. What I wanted specifically to replicate, Slavonia, is, therefore, these are humane to say colonization where I can say that people who came to Slavonia so where we met them, who were before amoeba and slippers, that they had entrenched life in Slavonia and their customs, but also with their laboriness. On the other hand, Slavonia experienced this inhuman colonization, and it happened something similar to that in Egypt when God sent locusts, a fight, when he painted the rivers red, first during the Homeland War, but at the same time...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77161	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77162	I'll finish. At the same time during the Homeland War through Croatian conversion and privatisation, where workers were completely deceived in Croatia, where they paid for what they had earned and made and should be compensated through a similar law, and I am referring to the workers of Đakovština now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77163	This was such a mild violation of the Rules of Procedure, but we're not dealing with it now. We have a reply to a replica that was not really a replica of Boris Grubisic, but you have a colleague's right under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77164	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Really here you are right here to say it. Namely, my colleague Vinkovic, in the area of Djakova, I spoke in '45. And '46. The year was moved to Zrina and the inhabitants of Zrina were moved not only in the vicinity of Djakov, but in the vicinity of Jasenovac, etc. But I forgot to say something in my first speech, when after 1919 and the Rafal Treaty, Croats from Istria were mass-deported in all parts of Croatia and beyond the world, never asked whether Italy would compensate those people for the property they then lost by Italian terror. That's what no one ever talks about here and not even these Istranas who are here, or how they like to tell the Istrians. That's not what they're talking about. That's what they're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77165	Thank you very much. This replica has exhausted the individual debate of the MPs. The secretary of state asked for a word, Mrs. Novosel.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77166	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I thank you for this debate. I would only show myself to one part of the debate where there was a speech that perhaps these amendments and amendments to the law were proposed under some pressure. No, these amendments and additions to the law had to be referred to the procedure for reasons because the Constitutional Court abolished certain provisions of the law. Secondly, the law makes it clear and loud, and this is already mentioned here that the possibilities and requirements for the return of foreigners will not apply to that property that has been settled by interstate agreements. What will certainly be taken into account by the proposer, which most clubs and MPs mentioned, is the question, as the issue of extending the deadline for Croatian citizens who were certainly not able to because of objective or subjective circumstances is now being raised, which they have had since six months. There has been a question, and this is also mentioned in the introduction of this bill's reasoning, 4,000 requests for return we have recorded, but these demands have not been discussed because there was no possibility, the legal possibility of discussing and deciding them. Perhaps among those requirements, it is safe to submit a request and to discuss whether they are within the framework of interstate agreements and do not fall under reimbursement. The final one, this basic law, which you all mentioned in your discussions, this basic law of return was passed to correct some injustice. Whether these laws can and these amendments try to correct some injustices, whether they can correct all injustices, history through history, regionally I think that it is difficult for any law to correct everything, but to try and make it right and to respect these remarks of good from the debate, they will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77167	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate under this bill. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77168	We move on to the draft law amending and supplementing the property compensation law seized during the Yugoslav communist rule. This is the first reading, P.Z.E. No. 854. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Property Compensation Act is adopted during the Yugoslav communist rule. Second, the comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please engage and vote on the proposed conclusion. The result? The proposed conclusion was accepted by most votes, 81 votes for, 2 abstentions and 26 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77169	Before we move to the next item of the agenda, allow me to read one notice. The 59th meeting of the Committee on Economy was convened on Wednesday 13 July 2011 at 9 am at Janko Draskovic's hall and will begin at 12 am in the same hall instead of 9 as it was called. The announcement was sent by the chairman of the board, Professor Dragan Kovacevic. The next item should be the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse, however, the conditions for discussion are not met. Namely, the parent’s work body did not carry out the debate, so we will skip that point until further notice. Let's go and start a debate about - Proposing a law on public enforcement fees, first reading, P.Z. No.861 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received reports at the session itself. Would the proposing representative like to explain the proposal? Yes, he does. State Secretary Ms. Barica Novosel.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77170	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. With the new legislative framework, this is the Executive Act and the Law on Public Executives of 1.1.2012, the current model of judicial enforcement is abandoned and the implementation of the exercise is given into the jurisdiction of public perpetrators. In addition to the Executive Act and the Public Executive Act for the purposes of the new executive system and its functioning in practice, a number of sublaws and regulations have been adopted, and one of them is this Law on Public Execution Taxes. This Act regulates the obligation to pay a public enforcement fee in the procedure before public enforcement officers, taxpayers, the time of the establishment of the obligation, the way in which the undertaking is to be charged, the institute of exemption from payment of fees, the process of determining the value. What matters is that the public enforcement fee is equal to the current court fee. There's no increase. It is the same, is the same amount of the fee and are the same institutes for the release from payment of the public enforcement fee. Therefore, the public enforcement fee is the revenue of the state budget to be charged in the coercion procedure in front of public perpetrators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77171	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. They don't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There's a debate on behalf of the representatives' clubs. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club Damir Sesvecan.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77172	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. So first of all, I will say that the proposal for a law on public enforcement fees, which is before us in the first reading of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, supports. In fact, as part of the reform of the executive system, the Law on Public Executors, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament in November of last year, continues to be implemented by the adoption of those laws, and the implementation of the draft guidelines for the reform of the executive system established by the Strategic Study of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of July 2009 aimed at developing an effective and effective system of enforcement with the simplification and shortening of the duration of the executive procedure which would result in the discharging of courts. In view of the importance and importance of the Institute of Implementation, above all because of the consequences it has for citizens, economic operators, i.e. in general the consequences of debt-religious relations. There have been numerous efforts before to increase its efficiency through legal interventions, to simplify and accelerate it. But despite all these improvements he continued to remain unacceptablely slow, too formalised and ineffective. I would like to remind you that such efforts, therefore such interventions in drinking are in force in the 1996 Executive Act, seemed to me to be 6. So there were six novels, six of his changes and additions. This is why the new 2010 Implementing Law created a legislative framework for the new way in which the implementation of the Implementing Act is carried out. Therefore, judicial exercise has been abandoned, and the executive procedure has introduced public perpetrators as independent and independent public trust holders who should ensure faster, simpler and better quality implementation of the exercise, which should ultimately contribute to the effectiveness of our judicial system and the rule of law in that segment. In any case, the introduction of a public enforcement system that will implement the implementation of an executive document has made one big one, so I would say even a radical step in the executive procedure. However, in order for the public service system to be fully operational, it is necessary to regulate, inter alia, the payment system for public enforcement fees and to establish a tariff for public enforcement fees which is an integral part of the Law on public enforcement fees. So, in particular, this Law will repeat what the State Secretary has said and regulates the obligation to pay a public enforcement fee in the procedure of implementing the exercise, tax bonds are defined. Then, the time of the payment obligation is defined, the way in which the tax base is calculated, the tax exemption institute, the procedure for determining the value of the charge, the refund procedure and certain penalties for public operators who do not charge or charge the fee unsettledly. So, I will also point out that, given that public enforcement fees are the revenues of the state budget, of course, no additional resources will be needed in the state budget. And for these reasons, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the proposal for this Law on Public Execution Taxes in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77173	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU representative Danica Hursa.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77174	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law that has been arranged over 26 articles and enters into force on 1 January 2012. In 2010, in this House of Commons, we passed a new Executive Act and a Law on Public Executors, so according to my belief and prescribed fees for the work of public perpetrators should have been part of a package that makes up the whole of the executive work. But today, we have half a year after the law is passed, and the bill that regulates this is all that the State Secretary said in the opening statement, so I won't repeat it. It is also an integral part of this Law as a tariff for public enforcement fees. The public service shall be provided by public authorities as independent and independent public service holders. The state transfers to public executives, so part of its powers, but the state remains an important factor in their functioning because the supervision of their work will be carried out by the competent ministries. In the very bill of law in this part, I think it's misforming and it's a mistake. It says this way. Therefore, the state remains an important factor in their functioning, as it will monitor their proper work. Well, there is no need to carry out any checks or control over the proper work, so I think that this word has been used needlessly by proper work, and I think it should stand to say that the ministry is going to carry out the work. And the legality of their work will be controlled by courts through the legal medicines institute. An additional revenue from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia will already be generated from the obligation to pay the fee. So, this bill makes up only one part of the total, in order for the executive work to work, of course, it is necessary to define the fees that we do under this bill. There's a club called HNS-HSU that will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77175	Next in line on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS is the esteemed representative Stanko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77176	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The new Executive Act and the Law on Public Executors were created as a result of the reform of the executive system in the Republic of Croatia. Another strategic study was adopted on 30 July 2009 for a more effective way of implementing and introducing public executives. The strategic study set out the objectives of the reform of the Republic of Croatia's executive system. Among other things, not to list them now, as well as certain procedures. The Institute of Public Executive is a complete newspaper of our legal system. When drawing up an early framework law for a new executive system, the EU's best standards, as well as all the main points of the Council of Europe's Recommendation since 2003, under which the exercise must be governed by clear legal frameworks, with clear and simple indications of the rights, obligations, responsibilities and opportunities of all participants in the implementation thereof, must be ensured and compliance with laws and judicial decisions. In particular, it was intended to ensure that the legal framework was sufficiently exhausted to the extent that it would allow legal certainty and transparency of the exercise, as it must be possible for the implementation of the exercise to be as predictable and as effective as possible. The new legislative framework after the current model of judicial enforcement and implementation is given into the jurisdiction of public perpetrators. The Law on public enforcement fees is part of a new legislative package in the capacity of the establishment of a public enforcement service. This law regulates the obligation to pay a public enforcement fee in a public enforcement procedure as well as the taxpayers, the time of the creation of the tax liability, the way in which the tax base is calculated and a number of other details. The component of this law is also the tariff of public enforcement fees. According to the tariff for the proposal to implement the application given in oral or written form, the executive order and the proposal to return to the previous situation shall be paid a public enforcement fee according to the value of the main demand, i.e. 50 to 250 kuna, and we consider it necessary in particular to stress that a single fee is paid for the implementation of the application and where more means of enforcement are proposed, whether later or at the same time proposed. The public service shall be performed by public authorities as well as by independent and independent public service holders who have the capacity of public trust persons. In other words, the State shall transfer part of its powers to public enforcement authorities. Therefore, the state remains an important factor in their functioning because the supervision of their proper work will be carried out by competent ministries, and the legality of their work will be controlled by courts through the legal medicines institute. The applicant also points out that it is precisely for the purpose of pre-arranged engagement of the state apparatus that results in the obligation to pay fees as revenue from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The HSS representative club supports the adoption of this law because we expect that the application of this law will, in practice, meet the objectives for which it is adopted, which are to enable legal certainty and transparency of the exercise and enable the implementation of the law to be as predictable as possible and as effective as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77177	Thank you very much. We have another debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club, this time SDP, representative Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77178	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Croatian Government and colleagues and colleagues. So if we say A we have to say B, that would refer to this Law on Public Taxes. So, we in the reform of the judiciary are opted for efficiency, that was the main word in the entire judicial reform. That is why we have introduced into the legal system some new institutes such as public enforcement duties. Well, since we've already introduced it, that's what we should pay for. Therefore, the efficiency of justice and democracy has its own price, and this price is that both the new Institute of Law and the new institution in the legal system must be paid. And since it has to be paid in the judiciary, it's logical to pay by fees. But that neither the judiciary nor the laws nor the new institutions are all-powerful, and neither the state shows itself on this very law. So, we have a new Act on performance, a new institution, new fees, marks, but we have in Croatia unremembered indifference. So we have someone saying 35, and someone 40 billion kunas of unpaid or maybe even non-refundable account claims, and that situation would be convenient, or you could say, so we're introducing new institutes into the judiciary to get rid of, release the courts, and that's going to be effectively resolved. It's not that bad, it's not like that. Unfortunately, it's not like that. The proof that the exercise of power and the rule of law would at least involve the possibility that salaries could be charged to workers by means of an application without any procedure. We didn't even think about it, but we're going to look for something else that might be more difficult, the introduction of a crime for non-payment of wages. Eh, so in Croatia I could say, for a long time on the stage when nothing can be solved let's give a new institution, new law and new fees, and so Croatia becomes a common state, an inefficient state and we build regulations on regulations. Of course, when I first said A. Mora and B. we founded it, we passed the law, and we have to pass this Law. And in that sense, the Social Democratic Party Club of Croatia supports and will vote for this law but here is a small amendment if we are. For example, in Article 5, tariff fees are paid in state records, I would say that they are paid in the form of government marks and not in state records. There are other things like that, but I'll do it in my own amendment. Finally, to repeat, we are not happy that regulations, institutes and institutions are piled together without having the desired efficiency, but there is no other way to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77179	Thank you very much. There's been a debate over clubs, and we're moving on to individual debates. The first is representative Ivo Grbić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77180	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing the proposal for a law on public enforcement fees, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred to in the regular procedure of adoption. The proposal for this law is a series of reforms of the executive system in the Republic of Croatia which began in 2010 by adopting the Implementing Law and the Law on Public Executors. In order to achieve the requirements for the effectiveness of the judiciary and the right to a fair trial within a reasonable period of time, it is necessary to ensure rapid and effective training. Public contractors are our system, they have been introduced according to the experiences of some European countries, leaving the current model of judicial exercise and implementing the exercise is given into the jurisdiction of public perpetrators. Public executives as public executives are independent and new in their work have the capacity of a public trust person, the state transfers to them part of its powers but it should also be pointed out that the state controls the legality of their work through competent ministries while courts control the legality of their work through the legal medicines institute. The proposal for a law on public enforcement fees will in some way frame the entire legislative framework of the public enforcement service. The proposal regulates the obligation to pay a public enforcement fee in the procedure in front of public performers the taxable bonds at the time of the opening of the duty, the way in which the tax base is charged, the exemption from payment of the fee, the procedure for determining the value of the fee, the limitation, the supervisory charge and the penalty provision. The obligation to pay public enforcement fees in the procedure before public enforcement officers shall be determined by the tariff of public enforcement fees to be paid for the procedures of enforcement and in other cases prescribed by the implementing law. It should also be pointed out that the exemption from charges in litigation and extra-parisal proceedings and in the procedure before administrative disputes also apply in the procedures of implementing the decisions taken in those proceedings. The fee shall be paid according to the value of the main interest when the case before the public executioner has been preceded by the same claim as the value of the claim, the value of the dispute case established in the case. The possibility for the perpetrators to object to the excessively indicated value of the main trade but to allow the public enforcement authority to verify the value of the main demand if it suspects that the overvalue of the main demand is too low. On the basis of this, I support the proposal for a law on public enforcement fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77181	Thank you very much. Here is the latest individual debate on this agenda point by President Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77182	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, my colleagues and colleagues. It was expected that soon this proposal for a law on public enforcement fees would come before us, given that we have established a public executive institution that really means the introduction of order and ultimately the efficiency of all the tasks. Perhaps this opportunity to say, although fees within the limits of economic power are better said by the inability of our citizens but we cannot be taken away from the impression that we have increased fees in litigation procedures, administrative procedures which were certainly not to be expected because during the 2002/2003 coalition government. We had the courage to cut 50% of the fees in litigation procedures and in all procedures which was a big minus for the budget itself but it was ultimately also strengthening the institutions of the judiciary itself and the freedom of access of citizens to the institutions of the judiciary. What I would also like to say to this occasion is that finally here I believe when I begin my work as a public executive and public enforcement officers begin to carry out their law, you give authority to put an end to what the government sees as none of its business and what its agency does to FINA. Our law of execution is clear which accounts are spoken for, all bills are seized for demand but up to the height of demand. If the amount of demand is higher than the amount of money on the debtor’s account, then the executioner clearly states in the law that the one third left for the life of the debtor will not be seized. THAT no alimony, social giving, and such like, disability and such incomes will be seized. For this reason, the FINA opposes the express provisions of the Act on the execution of a complete account. I'll just remind you, but this is the last warning we're talking about here because we've had a few press conferences on this subject, because this subject has been reported by a public defender. We're talking about illegal charges, and it's up to the head of the FINA. I appeal once again to the ministry gentlemen, Mr. Minister, to distract the prime minister to choose to discipline FINA or her head man. Can't fina prey against the law all accounts and then ask the citizens to form and open new accounts, if that's not what the law says. The law speaks very highly of bills, since he thought that the execution would be done in such a way that the law would say so. I repeat, illegal charges are a criminal offence, and all those whose FINA blocks the entire account for a minor or any claim for illegality, commits a criminal offence by an existing criminal offence, and now, according to the new proposal of the Penal Code, that thing is even more clearly defined and prevented by a greater penalty. That kind of thing has turned black in many families. We all know who live on wages and our wages are high to survive in the second, third month. How a man with a small salary can survive a small pension until he opens up a new account and that's why he would be forced to do it just because FINA says it, just because she has both skirts and scissors so it can't be. So we have a strange situation, that all those who are given the authority to execute it is an exercise, can also work against the law. Probably because they're in a position to do that. So when society, the state, when the law gave them great powers and gave them great powers, that's why there are strict provisions of the law to behave like that. 360 thousand accounts were blocked by that being the vast majority, atrocity of illegal blockades. We believe and hope that this will no longer happen at least when the new law comes into force from 1.1.2012. But a citizen lives on his salary, from his pension from month to month. And we're asking for an emergency stop with one of those anti-zazonic charges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77183	Thank you very much. This was the last individual debate. On behalf of the promoter, the final minister, Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77184	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I mean, really, since 1.1.2012, there's been a need to work out a new system of enforcement, and it's been done through public contractors. This Tax Code is one of the preconditions for this new system to come to life, and we have been guided by the proposal to avoid gathering any performance compared to what it is today. We have left fees at the same level with the fact that when determining in the rules on rewards or public service fees, we will make sure that these services that the court has been doing today are not actually coming to collect what it is. As far as the Court Tax Act is concerned, it's true that somewhere we've increased the amount of court fees, and we've reduced somewhere, we've completely cleared it. For example, about calming down, to make settlements all the way to the end of the procedure where we want to stimulate as much peaceful dispute resolution as possible. So far, we have paid a fee or a court fee that has been paid here, and we have abolished it completely. We have also increased some court fees related to the application of regular and extraordinary legal medicines because we actually want to detimise people when they go into court litigation and, in fact, when they invest these legal medicines purely for tactical reasons, they want to delay the dispute. So here I really think that the government had this maneuvering space that she used well. And this is not going to happen anymore, of course, because it was a program where it couldn't be recognized in an account that was unique to a citizen, which amount actually comes from a salary, which is the amount of the alimony, which is the amount of the damage. And that programme is in line, because the government's last amendments to the executive law have taken care of this kind of social component to preserve people that minimum of existence. We know that we had during a certain period that citizens could give a statement that their total salary was seized, we know that we had once had a practice even in the sale of real estate at public auctions, the real estate went away for one single kuna, in fact, the believer did not charge anything and the debtor would take away the entire property. These things are all actually fixed, put in place. But the new Law on Public Executors and the new Implementing Law, I believe, will allow one more quality, much faster and more efficient performance, and therefore, more orderly and better functioning on the market and on the economy but also in those mutual property relations between all other entities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77185	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77186	We move on to the proposal for a law on public enforcement fees. First is reading. P.Z. 861. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the proposal for a law on public enforcement fees is adopted. Second, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Let's please get involved and vote on the conclusion. The result? This conclusion was adopted unanimously with 114 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77187	And now we move on to the next point, which is - Proposal of Penal Code, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 866 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Proposer representative once again Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77188	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, before us is the text of the new Penal Code, so don't change the Penal Code how often we've listened to it, but this is one whole new text of the Penal Code. It's an extremely important law. We're in first reading today, and we're very interested. We have already received a number of opinions through committee discussions that we will certainly analyse when preparing the law for a second reading. But what motivated us to actually go into the making of a new Penal Code? The existing was brought in in '97. and has been applied since '98. A year. So today we live in 2011, this law no longer responds to the conditions in which we live. Many events characterized by today’s times, many ways of conduct can no longer be taken under the existing Penal Code. The penal law clearly protects a system of values and makes it clear which behaviours society will not tolerate and how society will react in a way that criminally prosecutes them, so in the end, if it is actually shown that the processing was justified through evidence and facts, so it will finally sanction them. The government founded a working group, an expert, led by a professor of Law Faculty, Mrs. Ksenija Turkovic. The task force is composed of judges of the Supreme Court, county courts, professor of law schools, representatives of the State's Attorney's Office. Indeed, it is an extremely professional working group that has worked on this document for more than two years. At the end of 2009, there were also strategic guidelines given to the framework in which the law should be. Of course, the existing Penal Code, which is now in force, has answered many questions and here is '98. applies to the present day and he is in himself for continuity because we can't just erase everything that's in him. It is, in large part, the basis and the basis for the current law. The current law takes over a whole series of incriminations, a whole series of works that are in it, it precises them, harmonizes with certain international legal documents. That's why it's more precise, that's why it's clearer, but it introduces a number of new incriminations that we said fit certain behaviours that we recognize as a society, that we have a problem with and that we want to prescribe as undesirable in this Penal Code. With this Penal Code we implement in our legislation a whole series of international legal documents of the United Nations, the Council of Europe, the European Union, a whole series of conventions, the directive, but in this law we also want to install good solutions and good practice which we have analyzed regarding Swiss law, related to German criminal law, Austrian and thus we believe that our law has enriched these good... The most important newspaper in this law is the modernisation of economic crimes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This was one of the important tasks because these acts in the current law are quite outdated and they are of a origin of social property, and harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union is necessary, of course, because of our recent entry into the family of modern European states. Key to this chapter of criminal offences is the new criminal offence of the abuse of trust in economic activity aimed at countering the criminality of management in companies, and the novelty is also a crime of fraud in the public procurement process which seeks to combat contracts between competitors in public procurement, bankruptcy crimes are also more precisely defined, so the criminal offence of violation of the rights of creditors in economic business relating to the abuse of bankruptcy or bankruptcy has been extended to situations where bankruptcy has not been initiated and over-indebted has occurred. Moreover, situations of the closure of over-indebted companies and the establishment of new ones are also incriminating to avoid obligations, which is a very common case in practice. So it's not a secret, we have practice that many company owners lead the company to bankruptcy, don't pay their bills to either creditors or funds, pensions, health or taxes, and slowly transfer business to their daughter's companies, slowly transfer property, transfer employees, and now that neither administration is opening bankruptcy proceedings... The bankruptcy law, the debt on these companies is being laid down, the interest on it is actually growing, and when the bankruptcy proceedings come, when we open we don't actually have, neither the creditors nor the state have in principle any of that bankruptcy process. [[You can't hear it.]] Right here, we're more precisely regulating this behavior and we're predicting this behavior as a criminal offence here. In addition, a new head of criminal offences against labour relations and social security has been introduced in which the incriminating and non-payment of salaries and non-payments of contributions, and with the fact that I have to say here, there have been quite a debate in the public the last few days about the incrimination of non-payments of salaries where there have been various tones, where there have been various opinions that this kind of incrimination will be a blow to entrepreneurship, that it will lead to job losses and that employers are hardly able to accept it. I must say, first of all, that we, and in the current Penal Code, are valid meaning in Article 114, we have the basis to process non-payments of salaries and contributions and our case-law actually knows such decisions and we have decisions which have been processed and sanctioned by some who have not paid their wages. Now, here, it seems to me that we're just making it more clear and we're saying what we want is a non-payment of wages is a criminal offense then if someone has the means at their disposal, and they don't want to pay their wages, but they use it to gain some benefit for themselves or for others, for some luxury, and only then is it a crime. Because it's clear to all of us that every employer can come into those business problems, doesn't go through a few public tenders, doesn't get a job, doesn't get a job, doesn't get a income, gets his contracts broken, someone doesn't pay his bills, and then he's in objective inability to pay his obligations, and on that side it's not a criminal offense. It is simply a difficult situation in the business from which he has other ways to get out and how to regulate such a situation. It is not in any case the subject of criminal law or is essential if we speak itself of non-payment of salaries, it is primarily an institute of labour law and there are all other means, so those civil proceedings for non-payment of salaries and claims through the executive procedure, through a civil procedure where it is actually possible to collect it, but we would like to say that it is unacceptable for us as a society that someone who has money does not pay the salary. It is unacceptable and therefore in practice can only be exceptions. It is also important to reform gender delicacies for the modern concept of rape proposed by the draft new Penal Code... That's what has completely changed the concept. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] It is also a new concept of prostitution that provides for penal punishment for clients when they know that a prostitute is forced into prostitution, and they agree to one such relationship. The special chapter sets out criminal offences against sexual abuse and exploitation of children who are in line with the relevant Council of Europe Convention, which will also, whose confirmation will be on the agenda of this session. A reform of crimes against honor and reputation has also been carried out. There have also been a lot of public debates concerning the criminal offence, slander... and defamation was covered by a valid definition of libel. [[You can't hear it.]] Even there was debate, there were round tables tied to the individual heads of this Law. So for certain types of incrimination and even there was a debate that maybe this whole head and all of these incriminations were transferred to Criminal Law. But since both the honor and the reputation of the individual are by the Constitution of the guaranteed category, we have decided to protect these values through criminal law, and this way is something more precise. Defamation, therefore, requires the very right intention and the desire to express something that is false in relation to others, and disgrace is already a situation where someone passes something that is unsure or does not know whether it is true what he endures. The insult of course has its own concept that was not necessary to change. He stayed in the frames as he is. This is to say one concept that we pulled out and where we had a reputation in the Swiss and German Penal Code, so we looked at their solutions, and about one part of it we took over and put in this proposal. In addition to the above, we looked to improve the systematization of the Penal Code. The current Penal Code has 27 heads. Today we predict 35 where we have much better systematized these crimes, and of course we have a number of new crimes, for example against computer systems, programs and data, crimes against intellectual property, then against privacy. We've opened up separate new heads to better systemize these works. It is also important to highlight the reform of the fines themselves, because the fine is individualized to the individual's actual strength. We are no longer within the statistical limits of some average daily income than the average daily income generated by a specific individual. So if someone is extremely rich... and we respect, in fact, his receipts completely and, under these conditions, we impose a penalty. [[You can't hear it.]] Because if someone's extremely rich and we're giving him some kind of average, then we didn't actually do anything. In addition to prison, prison is so to say, in relation to most of the crimes, we have raised that framework. The law is stricter. However, we understand that a large number of prison sentences... Six months and a year. [[You can't hear it.]] We want to replace them for fines, and if they can't fines work for the greater good and only an extraordinary prison. We think here we can do all those functions that punishment has, which means that it's a repressive element and it's preventive that we can achieve through this kind of punishment. I mean, it's not a secret, nor is it, of course, that our prisons are overcrowded that we have a lot of people inside and just those who are sentenced to these short-term prison sentences, and that doesn't seem to be the best effect. The current law allows the prison to be replaced by a fine for up to six months. Now we're raising that threshold. So, those prison sentences are a year's worth of fines. In addition, it is important to say the law is stricter because the maximum we have today is 40 years in prison we raise to 50 years and that penalty can be given for the most difficult acts in the gain if it means the sum of individual penalties to pass it for 50 years. A greater application of alternative sanctions is also proposed and the application of work for the common good is expanded. Now I say prison for up to six months can be replaced by work for the common good while in this new Penal Code it spreads to one year. Also, with this law we reform the Institute of Obsolescence. Now we have a concept of absolute and relative obsolescence. And it actually very often leads to a difficult calculation when an act is obsolete, when it needs to be initiated. Now we're going exclusively to, meaning a unique obsolescence in a way that we've increased this relatively, we've brought down absolute, and in that context we believe that we've allowed the state to process all those acts that are legally prescribed and which, of course, appear in practice. Otherwise, the Institute of Relative and Absolute Obsolence exists, I just don't know in Sweden, and it's really no longer applicable in criminal systems, and here we are, with this solution we are much more modern. And we are predicting an extension of the limitation by two years if the statute of limitations is already pending in the first-degree procedure to remove the pressure from the court of appeal, it means that in the ordinary procedure it can resolve the appeal. As for rehabilitating criminal records and the legal consequences of the conviction, we will regulate it by special law, not by this. There's a whole series of new crimes. For example, it is a significant piece of road traffic which is punishable even when there are no consequences. There doesn't have to be a car accident. But if someone drives faster than 50 than it's allowed under the influence of alcohol, then we can also prosecute them, and that's one preventive act where we want to influence such drivers and such participants who behave in this way to process it without having any consequences to dissuade it, to say that it no longer enters in such a way of behavior. The crime of domestic violence also becomes a qualified form of other criminal offences for which more serious penalties are provided. For example, a serious murder, a serious crime against sexual freedom, a serious physical injury. For numerous crimes, we have prescribed more punishments if they are committed out of hatred or hatred for a child. We also propose more serious penalties for the crime of theft. Now it's up to three years in prison. According to this proposal, at this time of five years, and heavy theft is now five years, and according to this new proposal up to eight years. We also propose more serious penalties for receiving and giving bribes and in accordance with the relevant international documents. Thus, when receiving bribes to carry out something that otherwise a person would have to carry out illegal passive bribery is now prescribed for 6 months to 5 years in prison, and this new law proposes one to eight years. To do something he shouldn't, it's a massive bribery, the unsub can get from 1 to 8 years in prison, and the new proposal is from 1 to 10. Also, when giving bribes now for illegal active bribery, we prescribe a prison of up to 1 year, and by new law from 6 months to 5 years, while for the right active bribery of the current 6 months to 5 years we rise year to 8 years. We are also introducing a new criminal act of intrusive behaviour, a stand-by under Italian criminal law and a draft Council of Europe Convention on Prevention and Combating Violence against Women. It is also important to reform security measures where we improve the regulation of the existing safety measures of mandatory psychiatric treatment, mandatory treatment of addiction, prohibition of the exercise of certain duties or activities, bans on driving of motor vehicles, introduce new security measures such as the obligation of psycho-social treatment, ban on visiting certain places and association with certain persons, distance from the common household. So, all of these around 3 already exist in the Criminal Code, but now we're introducing them into the Penal Code so that we can apply them to criminal acts. What is important in a conditional conviction, so now we will be able not only to have a conditional conviction exist for ourselves but also to say this whole series with it, so we will choose one of the security measures or more than security measures which should clearly, with the functioning of our probation office, lead to a much better sanctioning of individuals who are in the criminal zone, and thus we will individualise the penalty because the aim of punishment is not only repression but also the resociation of the person who committed a certain crime. To mention some other new acts that are here in the new law it is in the head - Penalties against humanity and human dignity, financing terrorism, trading parts of the human body and human entanglements, banring human sex cells from mixing with animals. They're about new crimes in that head. The crimes against human rights and fundamental freedoms we have a violation of freedom of expression of nationality, a new criminal act taken out of the current crime of injury to freedom of thought because of the specificity of this protective facility that we protect by this law. Also, intrusive behavior is a new crime in the head – Penalties against personal freedoms. So, as far as sexual freedoms are concerned, one new act – Sexual harassment, and that's also one news that we're introducing, and so we have a whole series of sexual abuse and child abuse crimes, that's cheating children to meet sexual needs. Major acts of sexual abuse and child abuse by reputation of this convention, which I hope to confirm at this session. In crimes against marriage, family, and youth, we have a new act of coercion for marriage. In crimes against human health, research on people is new without their consent. So here's a whole series of news that we're trying to sanction some of the phenomena that today's way of life has brought into society. The law is in the first reading, here we are extremely interested in all your suggestions, for all your analysis to see them until the second reading, and we believe that we will prepare an even better and better proposal for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77189	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. ... Of course not. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77190	Do you know Mrs. Vice President how long we'll be working today? What do you think maybe we could end up with today?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77191	I cannot answer your question with full precision, depending on how long the debate on the Penal Code will take, but most likely one more item of the agenda will be done. But please take it with the reserve right now. There's still time. It's only been three hours. We're going to have a discussion. The first is right on behalf of the IDS club colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77192	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Representatives and MPs. If there's one such incriminating about bribing MPs, she's out of space and out of time because we don't decide anything anyway, so I don't know who would give us bribes at all. However, I also agree with those who say that this law should not be discussed today at +37 Celsius, is that this hall is air-conditioned although I agree that there are those that are so that we may be the last to rebel because there are those that do not know on +37 or +39 pave the roads. But it's about the Penal Code, not any law. The bill means it has 379 articles. What is an extremely important article 377. — means the date of entry into force of this law ceases to be a clear Penal Code on the provision of Article 31, Accounting Act, provision of Article 188. Law on copyright and related rights, Article 65. Law on archival material, Article 49. The Law on Medical Insemination, then articles of the Law on Commercial Companies, the Law on Mandatory Relations, Energy, etc., etc. So it's clear to us, as the minister says, as we have the opportunity to see a brand-new Penal Code. It will also be interesting to see if someone will call on the same when it comes to some of the most exposed cases of corruption in Croatia. They probably won't because the sanctions, the sanctions, are actually diaconically increased. As the minister said, and here on page 4 is actually a newspaper in this code, we see that the suspension of the statute of limitations is being abolished, and the difficulties in determining the actions that interrupt the statutes and which are currently increasing in the Republic of Croatia due to radicality, this term has been used to quote the reform of the criminal proceedings, then we see where the crime is committed in the event that the sum of sentences imposed is over 50 years in prison as a single prison sentence can be determined by the one for 50 years, then the proposal for criminal law has changed significantly and the concept of fine so that the concept of average daily income is abandoned and the fine is expressed in the daily amounts of the person to which it applies, etc. Okay, this may not be just about that law, but now we have a chance to follow some judgments from little Maestro, etc. They were said liberatingly not to one individual, I think that this should be followed in the context that the proceedings against these people have ruined these people's careers, that they've materially destroyed these people, that they've destroyed their reputation, that they've made it impossible for them to deal with things like that in due course of time, in one word these people are turning around and now they're asking the question of how they're going to start life in their profession over and over again. No one from that criminal repression system is responsible for anything. If someone without intent makes even the slightest mistake, a failure may follow the fate of the suspects, the accused, the detainees, etc. And more than once I've talked about it, I don't see any reason for some people to put handcuffs on their hands at that earliest stage of the investigation. I think that should put it on the disposition of these judicial officers, not that people who can't speak Granic, Simic, whom they can harm, are simply underestimated in this way. Let's not just do that, it can't be a function of either, not one to say repressive measures. In this law, I have the impression that there are several absurdities, such as rape in marriage. So this new law is punished up to 15 years of marriage rape, 5 years more than usual, the old law is equalized... by rape, I don't know who's going to prove that qualified part or that qualification in that form, but I think it should at least be "equal" with the old code. Violence in the family, abolished as a special crime of every bully's crime, is dramatically increased if it is committed according to a member of the family. The old law special act criminally 6 months to 5 years in prison, to now skip the chastity or murder of the abuser, the prodigal word was finally completely thrown out of the catalogue of incrimination and now there are crimes against sexual freedom. The old law of rape and other acts are regulated by the head of the Penalty against sexual freedom and sexual disorder. The theft of egg cells, etc., there are some new incriminations for the first time. What I'm trying to say is, I'm under the impression that on these provisions, the main word and these sanctions were given to women who were in this task force. When the work of a woman commits when I look at these provisions, the punishment seems to be reduced compared to the old law, when a man commits it, then it increases. Children's pornography, any clear abuse of children should be maximum punishment, I don't know that I would do it for drug possession, there I would absolutely support the promoter regardless of the fact that some of my coalition will dispute it. But what may be among the most interesting is the lack of pay that was just before the talk and on a committee that I attended. So a new law that does not pay salaries with the aim of obtaining illegal property benefits will be punished by up to three years in prison before there was no such thing as an old Penal Code. I have to say, yes, I will vote exactly for this institute, I support this approach, without pay, no slaves, no farmers, they would either from their slave owner or from since they're called feudals get some accommodations, they would get food, some might not, some would get drinks, some wouldn't but without pay 2011. simply living is not possible. NO, you see here there are also some interesting things that authors or promoters of these changes that everyone on the national salary can hardly easily understand. I would even dare say that at this point 80% of these small employers, small craftsmen may be in a difficult situation and from the workers themselves who work for them. Anyone sitting here or voting under these provisions should, for the start of the minister, continue to have 10 workers on his conscience, be he a member of his family and perhaps more appreciated the efforts of those who fill the budget. Absolutely pay is contitio son qua non of anyone's survival and there's nothing to talk about. However, I point out that in order to point out one other moment, all in the business world, gentlemen from the Government in the Republic of Croatia are not the same. You have on one side of the tycoon, those who took part in the conversion and privatisation, who got everything from the state to which every new bill maximumly comes out to meet, which are suitable and you have those, watch out in this business world that literally started from nothing. I don't see that there's a will that crime in conversion and privatisation is sanctioned to the side of the constitutional phrase, we all will, but obviously these individuals who have become pillars of society today are obviously not going to be touched. One word asks itself, is it the same in this country in this business world as in '91? Or '92. It doesn't matter in '95. get 5 hotels, 8 camps, 300 apartments and all for nothing clear and that caterer, that craftsman, that craftsman, that little employer who can't collect from these first claims. Are they the same to whom the state guards the monopoly and those who simply cannot access the market because of that monopoly? I don't know, I said earlier on the board, we have a situation today that these big system of business banks in Croatia, and what notes are all owned by foreigners, come out to meet 4, 5, 6% interest, and that's why the small ones have to pay interest 8, 9, 10%? Are they the same ones who use a thousand acres, for example? tourism land and since '91. They don't pay the state or it doesn't matter to whom, or to swear, and on the other hand, you have one small caterer who, for one terrace of 100 square metres of an annual sea, first of all, separates hundreds of thousands of kuna from a municipality? Are the same ones who privatized the media and those who clearly in that media space begin with nothing? Who, on the other hand, is the generator of such a situation in Croatia, means that one general default where this insolvency at the moment exceeded the figure of 15 and perhaps billions of kuna? I think no matter what, some will deny me that state-owned companies are now undermining their obligations to be in the first place of the state. We have lost 140,000 jobs to this day. Investments from the state budget or quasi of these parafiscal funds have simply dried up, foreign investment has dried up. Last year, we had foreign investments realised in Croatia of about 400 and some million dollars, a year before that it meant two billion and something in 2009, and 2008. Four billion and something. Well now some bridges have started to work, etc. But it certainly won't be anything. And here we have new institutes, and I'm not going to quote it as defined by law, absolutely, yes, I support it. What about the shipbuilding that received 40 billion subsidies? I absolutely support the agreement in the public procurement process, but it is necessary to implement or better put in place a new piece here, making a false offer expressed in that lowest unrealistic price, with the aim of eliminating your competition, and it is known that work cannot be done at that price. The shame, that is, in my court, is too high a sentence here. That's what I see from my example, I'm arguing with HRT asking me 110 thousand kunas, a litigation cost, interest rate over 200 thousand kunas. And I think these penalties should simply have a measure. It's right in the media and there's so-called. A journalist's racket, an absolute journalist must be free, he must have complete freedom, so I am against these institutes and these kind of punishments. But if someone got the money to rob someone else or give someone in the public media money to promote them, this other one can't or marginalize it should be introduced as a new incrimination. As far as having sex with children is concerned, I have the impression that the Berlusconi would still come to this country on their own. Sexual relations with a student, I see up here we have one to 10 years, and here six months to five years. That pedophilia really needs to be eradicated. I want to believe that in some religious communities in Croatia there is no such thing, but no matter where it appears, it should be struck. We have a new law, it's good that he shows up and needs to be supported to go into another reading, but I think a bill like this should at least get an opportunity to argue in three readings. And it's especially dangerous when the DORH accuses you of being deprived of your freedom, when you're a criminal for all, then the court releases you, and then you get on TV for 10 or 15 seconds, and then you go back to the community from which you went as an equal and free man.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77193	Thank you very much, fellow Caine. Let's not waste any time. We'll go with the next debate. On behalf of the SDP club, representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77194	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's the proposal of the Penal Code we've been waiting for eight full years. The SDP Penal Code proposal will support this first reading. A lot of modern incrimination was found in him, many things on that 2003 trail that were very advanced in those days and modern ones were accepted. It's one satisfaction to us, but it's still an opposition. The HDZ voted for this law safely and economic problems would be less, because many of these economic incriminations and today's trail of disgraced today we have and we will have in the Penal Code. But it's sad, though, that I have to realize here that somehow it's like the end of the year, the grades are closed, and we're discussing it, and as if the professor is interpreting the most important topics without some kind of check on how he's going to address it and give suggestions. It is regrettable that in the fundamental law of a country after the Constitution, which is certainly the Penal Code with the Civil Law that they are the fundamental laws of a country, we are discussing this in the afternoon before the end a break for the work of the Parliament. It certainly is not encouraging and is not supportive of what and behind which a whole working group has been working on such a serious project. However, here we see from the reasons here that the government formed a task force only in 2009, and when we proposed many things on that trace of the 2003 criminal novel, we were told, we formed a working group, we are working on amendments to the Penal Code. Now, the truth is that practically in this work, the work of the Penal Code has not been done since 2009. What I can generally say, and also in terms of the general part of the Criminal Code proposal, is that it remains on the trail of the most up-to-date starting points in the participation, in the co-indication, so that the perpetrators or perpetrators and complex issues that have caused a whole series of theoretical dilemmas are separated, making it difficult to apply themselves to resolve. However, what I can generally say at the outset, and then more specifically, when I talk about the special part, about our observations, that in some way injury to the duty of attention, therefore neglect or stop experiencing adequate sanctions, and the modern conditions of life, the use of dangerous things and substances require increased attention, and we have in some way expected that they will not only reflect in sanctions, not only in criminal acts but also simply in criminal sanctions. Because intention, with intent, you can commit a crime, but with negligence and severe injuries of duty, but you're still within the bounds of nowhere, you can cause terrible loss and human lives and material giving. So many theories, especially in Germany, come from the fact that even the modern way of business and life requires almost because of the consequences themselves, and criminal law can never, regardless of the criminal will, be removed from what the crime has caused in real life, and these are serious consequences. So they're even going to almost equalize the degree of guilt itself. What we also have to point out with concern is that there is no criminal offence against the law by the judge and the judicial officer, and it is found to be quite good, a criminal offence sanctioned by the representatives. We have criminal acts of management structures which is good, the responsibility of the executive government, and we have absolutely no responsibility... but withdraws under official responsibility which is absolutely inadequate, and we had this until the minimum reform of criminal legislation, until '97. A year. [[You don't understand.]] Likewise, the offences of environmental pollution that are generally committed with negligence, with cease-fire, do not experience adequate criminal sanctions with such a form of guilt. In view of this, I'm going to move on to the very special part, so here's the help. So I've already said that the perpetrator defines the perpetrator as the person who commits crimes by himself or by means of another person. Therefore, it takes over the Institute or the Authority's theory of the work which is certainly good in relation to disseminating the perpetrator or perpetrator from other participants, i.e. incentives and assistance. However, here we come to another theoretical problem which also has repercussions in practice that when you have only the sole theory of government over the work you will distinguish such a person who commits a criminal act that is strictly individual. These are the crimes of delict propria which can only be committed by a certain person. Only an official can be held responsible for an official offence, and here you have a person who, by means of such an perpetrator, has not taken the action of execution, but has done so by means of another person. Practice's gonna get in a lot of trouble. Just like that in the credentials. So it's a privileged form of death penalty when a mother caused by a postpartum disorder kills a child so it's only a privileged crime for her mother. But here you're saying that by intervening and by other persons he commits criminally, he can't do it by his father and be privileged, so we're having trouble with the prori delicta. That and the theory draws attention, in the end you explain it in the law. This will cause some problems in use. In the form of punishment, we see that the maximum sentence of prison is up to 20 years, or 40 years in length, but the penalty for obtaining the most severe forms of serious crime is imposed for 50 years. We still feel that we remain on this trail that for the most severe forms of crime precisely because of general prevention, but also in special prevention, and that is ultimately on the trail of public opinion research which knows such situations in which the life sentence of prison as one capital punishment in one legislation after the abolition of the death penalty is shown as socially justified and just. Because people know, citizens know that there are situations like this, there are craft killers. As long as there are people who kill others without cause, for no reason at all, innocent people who have not contributed to anything that they are deprived of life, who do it to a minor, to pregnant women, to powerless persons, to deserve such punishment, and who are willing to do it again. So, you're going to say 50 years is almost the same, but the life sentence of prison is known in Europe and there's no obstacle to it being as one measure, one strong measure that society will also fight against such a kind of most cruel criminal. In security measures, we can say that a whole series of modern measures that appear as an approach, a ban on access to certain places, a distance from the common household, a ban on Internet access are indeed on the trail of modern life and follow therefore and criminal law and monitor their incriminations and adequate sanctions. The same can be said of criminal acts against humanity and human dignity. We now see that those who wanted criminal law to eliminate crimes against human dignity were wrong, whether they are here or as crimes of insult, slander, shame that we consider to be an excellent solution because man's life, his integrity, his property and human dignity are based on him. If we deprive a man, we can deprive him of his property, but we cannot deprive him of his human dignity. So to those and to those who write by order in order to unverified capital and their owners, we say that society will not capitulate and we give you recognition. Because after all, all those who asked us to, if their dignity, their colleague was threatened, were the first to run to court, and that's what has to be said. So, there shouldn't be any populist or give up anything that isn't good for anyone because if we relativize the truth and lie we're done and we're ruined as a society and our survival isn't guaranteed regardless of our own territory. We believe that the crime of trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human body works is the most difficult form and should provide for maximum punishment here for the most difficult forms especially here I specifically mention a serious murder that should be complemented by precisely who else kills to trade in human organs. It's the most monstrous thing and it has to have such a consequence. And that's not really a very special thing here. We can't give this to a court's imagination interpretation that this could be undermined by a crime of kindness. It has nothing to do with even being helpful. It's something that's most monstrous. These are crimes not only against humanity, but against humanity. And I ask that you consider it a particularly qualified murder act as a difficult murder to stress, especially. Without aiding and abandoning a helpless person is not some kind of crime that has always been in our criminal law. We need to strengthen solidarity. So, who leaves a helpless person, who doesn't give her help, can't be punished until one year. That means parole, and that means nothing. It's those great crimes, and we need to strengthen solidarity in our society, so there should be a minimum of three years. And by doing so, we send a message that we are a society of solidarity. This is what we are expected to do in the European Union, and more and more so in our own country before. In crimes against labour and social security, no matter what crimes are listed here, we have one serious remark, first of all, in the case of non-payment of contributions. Therefore, it cannot be a suspended sentence until one year. There's a man at risk and later his pension rights, his health rights. These are serious acts that ultimately the state then bear all these costs. Therefore, it is not necessary to favour and meet such employers. Now we're at payoffs. It can't be a crime of default. So how much does he pay? It is only on the trail, then, when women's associations and together with us in 2000 and before 2000 advocated that a whole series of crimes that protect women, especially from violence, especially from domestic partners must be sanctioned. And that's why it's a shame, so I'm going to pull the parallel right away and that the crime of domestic abuse has been dropped, because it wasn't incrimination, the legal description wasn't accurate enough. Well, when he wasn't precise enough, they didn't know how to write him, so they erased him. That can't be a good way. We can't just use an easy and severe physical injury to incriminate it. So, no payout. It can't be payouts, it can't be payouts. It can't be payouts. It can't be payouts. In Slovenia's criminal law, only who part of the salary is not paid to prosecute. So when that reminds me of when a woman sues for being hit by a partner, the judge says ten or more years ago, so how many times she hit you. One time. Well, one time, you're already on trial! Same for the payoffs. The worker needs to get deserved and it should be sanctioned in such a way. What I must also point out in particular, and these are just crimes against marriage, family, and children, that injury to duty and restraint cannot be punished for just one year. It's also a conditional conviction, and it's thought that the state is not serious. What we also cannot go to meet the pharmaceutical companies themselves in counterfeiting medicines or medical products who take such a recipe will be punished for up to five years, while unconscious treatment in the preparation and issue of medicines where consumers or patients themselves should be protected for up to three years. There's a disproportionate. Crimes against the environment also have little, if all well covered have small sanctions. What I particularly want to point out are crimes against property. They are well covered but we must warn that you can easily rob all property in Croatia and private and state-owned and receive a maximum sentence of 10 years unless it is done by force or coercion. So all the crimes of abuse of trust in economic business, what we had in 2003 finally came to this point. Also in abuse of religious rights in economic business. But we particularly stress, therefore, that there was no criminal offence against the law by the judge because all crimes against the judiciary were well covered, and then logically when the court and the judge and the judicial officer were given such protection that they must then have the responsibility of the team before establishing responsibility for the parliamentary representatives. We need to establish a criminal offence against the law by the judge. It is those who knowingly break the law to the detriment of the other party. So something would, it would be sanctioned something that even a healthy logic can't explain. The judges are independent, but they are not independent of the law and of common sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77195	Thank you very much. The next is on behalf of SDSS Representative Milorad Pupovac's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77196	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is indeed a very large, important and important law for the present Croatian moment. Changes, new heads, new topics, new topics that have been introduced into this law certainly cannot be included in the time available that we can make available on behalf of the club. That's why I'm only gonna limit myself to some aspects. First of all, as regards honor, respect, slander, I think it's a good thing that the sanctions for the violation of honor, the injury of reputation are increased, and it's a good thing that's left in the Penal Code. And because this phenomenon of this Parliament is here and the statements that we can hear from people who speak in this House, and to people who, in different circumstances, speak outside the Parliament, in the media or by those who represent the media actors themselves, show a very low degree of responsibility when it comes to speaking to other people. And for that reason, on the one hand, it's a good thing that it gave up the idea that there's a prison sentence for journalists or for actors who present certain facts that someone might interpret as slander. But on the other hand, it is certainly a good thing that the legislator predicted a relatively high fine for this type of crime. Secondly, as regards Article 133 and, in general, the whole chapter relating to crimes against labour and social security, regardless of the fact that the legislator's decision and decisions in this case of the ministry to introduce prison sentences to those who do not pay, and may raise the question to whom all this applies, to whom it is necessary to apply, and what conditions under which individual economic operators not having their own fault or their liability should be excluded, have come into a situation that they cannot pay their employees' salaries and, regardless of which clearly economic relations cannot be predicted or regulated by legislation, there is no doubt that we all know for years that there has been a practice of deliberate avoidance of earnings, wages and contributions. The intentional non-compliance of legal obligations and that this intentional non-compliance of legal obligations must be sanctioned. Especially if it is found that people use different mechanisms were not money that they earn to another account transferred through some other form of financial activity settled, while avoiding paying for what was paid must be paid. As far as the SDSS club is concerned, non-payment of salaries is equal to taking money from someone else's pocket and violating the social and economic security of the good part of our citizens. The second or third concerns the production and possession of drugs. We think that everything about trade, about production and about drug trafficking in this law is acceptable to us, but Mr. Minister, we think that the measure in which those who possess easier drugs are treated by this law, so by criminal law, is a measure that is not appropriate and a measure that will not receive adequate results. In other words, if it stays this way, and we suggest that this change during the second reading, you will first increase the number of cases for investigative authorities and judicial authorities that are not yet sufficiently qualified to deal with this difficult, drastic phenomenon that threatens health, which endangers families, which threatens safety, while you will not be able to reach those who actually produce and those who trade drugs. So our proposal is to also punish the possession of light drugs, but not in the way it is proposed by this law, but to treat it as a criminal act and thus avoid the stamping of young people who, in different social circumstances, are exposed to the challenges of the possession or consumption of light drugs, which is why they are not directed and categorized into a category of people where they do not actually belong. As far as the environment is concerned, as my colleague Marinovic has already said, it is very important that this head is so well worked out and I don't think the penalties are too weak, I think the penalties are solid. I am more, much more concerned with the extent to which it will truly be respected. To what extent we are trained, to what extent we have expert teams who will respond to demanding actions that will result from this and help those who will have to judge in such matters. In other words, to what extent we as a state will ensure that we have what is necessary in order not only to determine the fact of deliberate or accidental pollution of the environment but rather to determine the extent, to determine the quantity, to determine the nature and different forms of what is needed, and especially to what extent we have qualified people to follow it. And, of course, I'm particularly thinking about what that kind of crime of environmental pollution really means. Also, as far as traffic is concerned, traffic penalties also appear to be very sharp, in some cases they also act as dragons. But there's no doubt... I suppose that most often these types of penalties that are intended to be replaced by penalties for general good, so I suppose for this reason this will not bring any great burden, either in the work of courts, either in pensioning institutions, but certainly are a good instrument and a good mechanism for all those who still have relatively weak sensitivity to the respect of laws and rules on the roads either in the city or outside or outside of them do not actually respect that kind of necessary rules. [[You can't hear it.]] As for article 321, so calling for violence and hate, we're here... /bad footage, you can't hear. Part of the phonogram has been left out for technical difficulties. Both political religious and other differences because this form of calling for hatred and violence against those who are different political commitment, those who are different ethnic or religious belongings unfortunately we have daily in Croatian media. in general, a whole head that regulates the issue of voting law. [[You can't hear it.]] I think that this is extremely important given the fact that we all know that there are unsettled polling lists, we all know that there is an unscheduled record when it comes to the completeness of the electoral signatures, and that means the issue of ethnicity as an important element for achieving the electoral process in Croatia, given the constitutional provisions and provisions of the Constitutional Law and the Election Law, unfortunately so far there has been no sanctions for situations where people would come to polling stations and then find themselves in circumstances in which their ethnicity has not been entered or all that is relevant for the normal and regular exercise of their electoral rights. And finally, the provisions of this Law that regulate the question of denying relativation and insult. Crime of genocide, aggression, war crimes or crimes against humanity. We all know very well that in our country there are a whole series of objective indicators as it seemed, as it seems, and as it is still being done. With great curiosity, we will follow how and how the provisions of this Law that we support will also be followed in that segment. Otherwise, I say the SDSS's Club will support this law in its first reading, and we hope it will be in these segments. [[You can't hear a bad video.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77197	Thank you very much. It is up to the HDZ Club of Honorable Representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77198	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Madam Secretary of State with an associate and colleague and colleague. The HDZ Club will support the adoption of a new Penal Code in first reading, the bill. I would like to say here that the existing 1998 Penal Code, which came into force in 98, has already experienced a series of amendments and novels, has been changed 12 times during this time, of course by adapting to both economic and technological and general social changes in order to always be in line to prevent certain behaviours from being socially undesirable but which appeared perhaps in another form, and then their factual description even though they were recognized could not have been subsidized under that description that made up the being of a criminal act under the Law. I must say that I am sorry that the claim has been made that we now see from this Bill proposal that the Government has only appointed a working group in 2009, and so on all proposals and the SDP question has just answered that the task force is working and that no one has actually done anything until 2009. It is simply not polite to say that the government is lying because these 12 changes from 98th to today have not fallen from heaven all done so by a working group appointed by the government and by a working group that has always been composed of university professors, from judges of the Supreme Court, chief state attorney, judges, as this working group has now been composed. Therefore, all amendments and amendments to the Law have been prepared in a way that has been consulted by both scientists and practitioners and judges. Of course, seeing that these changes are already so much that further changes are needed in order to modernise the text of the criminal law, indeed the Government in 2009 has appointed one new working group, far more extensive and more demanding work because it was necessary to comb through all the provisions of the existing law and bring them into line with economic and social trends and the result of the work and the working group is this bill which is before us. What I would say is that this new Penal Code is not in fact a revolutionary law, or it is not as new as the law on criminal proceedings where we have really passed a new law that has adopted a whole new principle and I would say, by boldly altering the way of prosecution and the conduct of criminal proceedings, above all, in that prejudicial section, therefore leaving the investigation to the prosecution as a whole. This Penal Code actually protects all those social goods that are protected by the current Penal Code, only in some way introduces new crimes or improves the descriptions of existing crimes so that it can be protected as effectively as possible. In several directions, these changes are also part of the reform of the general part, reforms in relation to sanctions both in prison and fines, in the general part also through the reform of parole, through the reform of security measures, the confiscation of property benefits and cases and reform of the stalemate institutes. It may be important here to say that this long-standing problem that we face in Croatia, but also in other countries and the world, it is overcrowding of prisons. As we see from many reports and from the Ministry of Justice and Advocates, overcrowding in our prisons is over 50% above certain norms. It was observed that about a third of all prison sentences are therefore short-term prison sentences, that the share of fines is reduced precisely because almost in most cases these fines are replaced by prison sentences. Therefore, some obvious reforms were to be made in this section, and reforms are going towards the fact that the existing prison under the current text of the law can now be between 30 days and 15 years, and lasting from 20 to 40 years. The new proposal suggests that the minimum duration of the prison sentence could be 3 months, hence the prison from 3 months to 20 years and the long-term prison of 21 to 40 years, with the exceptional length of the prison sentence being imposed up to 50 years only for the acquisition of serious crimes. It may be interesting to say that at this time in Croatia the most severe sentence of a 40-year long prison for crimes is served by 9 people. The working group has accepted the proposal and the government has accepted the proposal to increase this long-term prison to 50 years, to make it almost hopeless for the freedom of those most radical perpetrators of criminal offences for whom, with all psychosocial treatments, is either a hopeless possibility of resociation or it comes down to a minimum. What is important in the paper of this proposal is the exceptionality of short-term prison sentences, so up to 6 months can only be pronounced exceptional if the assumptions for a provisional sentence have not been fulfilled and if it can be expected that the fine or work for the common good cannot be carried out. So, the principle is to impose a fine that the fine is not only replaced by a prison sentence but also by a newspaper, that it is being charged by means of the Tax Administration, and only if it fails to charge it by force to replace it by working for the general good. And if there's no consent or can't be replaced by work for the common good, it's only then that he'll be replaced for jail time. I'd be a little troublesome here to replace the fine. This law proposes to replace the daily amount of fines for 2 hours of work for the general benefit. I don't know. I don't think that's appropriate. Therefore, the daily amount is replaced by one day of prison, if I remember correctly that it is proposed, and only with two hours of work for the common good. If the daily amount of the fine should be a daily something that a person can earn in one day, then he should also work as a substitution for it and do a little more than two hours of work for the common good. Also in this part of the penalty that determines sanctions, it is noticeable to strengthen the role and application of alternative sanctions and to reform alert measures. A conditional conviction which is now applied through a sampling system with the expression of specific obligations, individualisation of penalties and the pursuit of the purpose of punishment. Also, the sentence of labour for the general good or measures for the general good is now extended to the possibility of sentences when prisons can be imposed up to one year and fines up to 360 daily amounts, and when prison is prescribed for up to 6 months must be replaced by work for the common good. And all of these are measures that should encourage and in some way force judges to impose these alternative sanctions. In the part of the parole reform proposed, it is proposed to decide on a conditional discharge of the court, which I consider to be good, not a commission as some body of the prison court or the Ministry of Justice, because in some ways it is a matter of changing the court's decision. So, one way or another, there's a reduction in the sentence, and now it can only be decided after half the fine has been endured. With a minimum of three months being served in prison. In the part of the security reform, therefore, which may be imposed at the time of the sentence. Therefore, with the improvement of the arrangements for all existing measures, mandatory psychiatric treatment, treatment of addiction, ban on the performance of certain duties or activities, bans on driving vehicles, new safety measures are introduced, hence their number and species are increasing. And this is a mandatory psychosocial treatment, especially for perpetrators of crimes of violence, crimes against sexual freedom. For future resociation, it is actually impossible to implement and lead to resociation unless psychosocial treatment is conducted during the course of the sentence. Then the ban on visiting certain places and hanging out with certain persons, away from the common household, and these are security measures that the law already knows, but here in criminal law they have not yet been introduced. That's also logical because it seems to me that we've been changing the law a little later than criminal law. I see time is running out. I haven't even gotten to the special part yet. In a special part of two or three things that have been talked about a lot. It's a crime of non-payment of wages. We also have a union manifestion of such a principled provision, which is in the draft of this law, which says that the crime of non-payment of wages is considered to be what was committed with the aim of obtaining illegal property benefit. It's been public talk for a long time. I have personally mentioned many times that the existing law knows this crime in Article 114, so we also have some judgments of the power to do so in Article 114. Of course, the proposal was accepted to make this incrimination more miserable, but it seems to me that in the way it is proposed in this proposal that it is actually worse for a worker than it is in the current Article 114. Penalty law. Therefore, it should certainly retain a formulation that for unwarranted reasons does not pay a share or a full salary, not a salary because it does not know how many it takes to make it a crime. So, certainly that salary must be in one part and part of it and for unwarranted reasons or formulations which deliberately do not pay the salary, because this is for the purpose of achieving an illegal property benefit that is quite discriminatory when it would actually become a criminal offence. I stress, wishing to make workers better, to ensure their salaries are paid, I'm afraid this proposal will make it worse than the current situation, but since it's about first reading, then there's time to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77199	Thank you. That's what ended the club debate. We're moving on to individual, but before I do, I'd like to inform you that the time has expired at 16.15 to report a ten-minute hearing. The first in line is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Then it's the honorary representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77200	Your Honor, Vice President, the Secretary of State is working with his associates. Well, first of all, I would like to stress that this is the first reading of the proposed Penal Code and all the remarks and suggestions that have arrived, and there are many of them from employers' associations and trade unions and various associations, that they will also try to find maximum harmonisation with the legislator. In particular, a lot of proposals and remarks have come to the article of a law which treats non-payment of wages with a criminal offence. The proposed Penal Code is clear in that part and it clearly prescribes that non-payment of wages is a criminal offence if such an employer obtains property benefit to himself or to another. A three-year sentence should be sufficient to warn all those employers who calculate between payouts to workers or illegal wealth. Such a punishment does not apply to employers who, for legitimate reasons, justify that I mean business reasons, come into a situation that they cannot pay the workers' wages. So these legal provisions don't apply to them. And the current Penal Code prescribes a penalty that punishes those employers who deny earning workers a fine or a prison sentence for up to one year. The proposed law does not foresee the possibility of fines but tightens the sentence to three years in prison. Up until now, often in public, and for daily political needs, the number of workers who work and do not receive salaries from employers has been bidted. The figures were used on a daily political need so that you could often hear, and read that there are about 85 thousand in Croatia, well about 100 and 125 thousand workers who work and do not receive wages. The recent analysis adopted on the Economic and Social Council of three social partners showed the following situation in the area of this work and pay. In Croatia, 131077 employers, both legal and physical. They employ at the end of May of this year a million and 404 thousand and 159 workers, the same thing in legal persons, which in craft, which in agriculture etc. Weighted by the number of employers, around 94% can take that average, through the year regularly paying salaries, taxes and contributions to their workers. During the year, part of employers pay net wages, while mandatory taxes and contributions pay irregularly for cca 70 to 110 thousand workers. The share of workers is paid by a delay of a few months, i.e. From somewhere for 18 to 25 grand and that's the number actually where workers are working, and they're irregularly paid for their work. The reasons for payout irregularities are mostly due to the inequitableness of the employer, but also the irresponsibility of employers who manipulate existing regulations. And anyway, first of all, it is clear that there are no 80,000 workers who work and do not receive salaries in Croatia, and second, by tightening the prison sentence up to three years for lack of pay, I believe that with many employers, they will solve the dilemma of whether they will pay the worker for his work or buy a yacht, or those funds elsewhere, and leave the worker without pay. Surely I agree that this issue of non-payment of salaries should be even better arranged for me in a way that it really is a commitment and that in that part it cannot happen that the employer puts the worker's salary in another order of payments and that something before that payment is made to him. I think the salary must be in the first payment order and there's no other settlement obligations by the employer until he settles the salary of the workers. So I say I agree with this punishment, but I think we need to further define this area of pay default, and what they have also pointed to by their remarks and social partners. And what is also important and which opens up the possibility that collective agreements will also regulate the issue of payouts and normal contributions that the employer is obliged to pay for workers. And then, normally, any disagreements and conflicts with this Penal Code will be avoided, which I say is good and quality, determining how to punish those employers who do not comply with their obligations to workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77201	Thank you. The guest of Gordana Sobol is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77202	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd just point out a few things about the new Penal Code proposal. About the part about domestic bullying. In fact, practically what was said up to a month or two ago went a different way to edit the issue of domestic violence. I remember a debate about International Women's Day this year. It was then debated precisely that this article of the law was famous 215a. So, today's law is still in force in a different way, that is, to clarify itself and that, in fact, it is in a way that it goes on until the end of this, I think that the violent behavior in the family would in this way really remain particularly manifested as a criminal act, and primarily because of what we all agree on, which is due to social danger. Therefore, because of the social danger contained in the description of this crime. And in that sense, I support exactly the views of NGOs. Among other things, the Autonomous Women's House which submitted its proposals to the Committee on Gender Equality has also been forwarded today to the Proposer for further consideration. Since it went this other way, so that domestic violence is introduced as a qualitative form of some crimes then I would pray so I don't know how ultimately it's going to be a solution. Personally, I would like to advocate that there remain a special article of the law that will refer to violent behavior and that will be worked out in the way that they have so far been proposed by primarily non-governmental associations dealing with this problem. But I think it was in some way at least until a month or two ago and the position of the task force itself that was thus working out this bill. However, I warn that if it remains this way, so form such as in this proposal that some crimes do not contain a qualified form if it is committed according to a member of the family. I'm already here State Secretary is here, she was at a session of the Committee on Gender Equality. Then, among other things, we warned that, among other things, the crime of threat did not contain a qualified form as it was committed to a member of the family. Then the crime of intrusive conduct also does not contain a form if the work is committed according to a member of the family and contains if it is committed according to a former spouse or out of wedlock partner. So I personally see no reason why this would not apply to family members. Because if there's a divorce case going on, let's say. Thus, it is still considered a marriage or a family relationship. So in this part of it, it seems to me that it is incomplete, as among other things, to say the offense. So, I would ask the legislator to perhaps reconsider the proposals that come from the level of those who are able to work daily and meet with victims of violence, or to listen to their voice, because in some ways helping them through court proceedings, I think they are very relevant in what, and in what way should I improve in the Penal Code. Furthermore, regarding the problem of prostitution and the punishment of those involved in prostitution, or those using prostitution services. In fact, I have to say like this until now that what was going on in the public eye is actually being achieved by this law now, it turns out that I think the public is pretty much convinced that now it will finally start to punish those who use sexual services at the expense. So they use prostitution services. However, according to what is now said, that is, what is now in the proposal for the Penal Code. Namely, he says: "Who makes another person profit by force or threat, deception, fraud, abuse, etc. Force or lead to the provision of sexual services or use of sexual services by such a person with a charge, knowing the circumstances mentioned above, will be fined by a prison of one to ten years." So a person who uses prostitution should know that the person who provides services is the victim of human trafficking, kidnapping, forced labour, etc. Well, in that case, if he knew that, and he used favors anyway, then he'd be punished. And what about when it's not about using prostitution services, and the one who offers services is not a victim of human trafficking, etc. Therefore, the use of prostitution services is still not a criminal offence, nor will it be a criminal offence in most cases. And even less, today we've got an explanation that such a person who uses prostitution services will be prosecuted. She's not doing it today because the Criminal Law punishes service providers, not service users. And it's not much of a comfort to me that it's been said that there's going to be a new Criminal Code going on, and then there's going to be a misdemeanor in there. It will be if I say so, and I believe that if it was already, at least from the beginning, it should also be in the Penal Code to punish the use of prostitution services whether you knew or didn't know of any or if there were any such circumstances, then I don't see any reason why it does not stand in that form as to how the associations proposed it, which is to delete this part of Article 158(2), knowing the above circumstances, but to be without it. I would also like to warn in accordance with the position of the Advocate General for Gender Equality, which is Article 157 relating to a new criminal offence, which is sexual harassment. Therefore, in Article 157 of the legal text, we believe that it is necessary to work out because it in some way determines that the cumulative conditions to be met should be and that it would be a criminal offence. And what is particularly controversial about Article 157, therefore, in sexual harassment is paragraph 2 of that article, which is sexual harassment is the verbal or non-verbal behavior of a sexual nature which is intended or really a violation of another person’s dignity, which has repeatedly caused fear and strengthened discomfort in that person. So it turns out that once you commit some form of sexual harassment, nothing will happen to you, but if you do it again, then you'll eventually be held accountable. We don't think it can stand that way because either you committed a crime, so you committed it once, twice, three times or five times or you didn't commit it. I think you'd be begging, therefore, to respect the attorney general's remarks and therefore I think it's really enough that for this crime to exist, it's enough that this happens once. And I hope, then, that until the second reading of the law and this item will be corrected in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77203	Thank you. It is time for the honourable representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77204	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, in our first reading, we have a proposal for a new Penal Code. As has now been said, the current law, which has been in force since 1 January 2008, has so far been newed 12 times and is therefore well, therefore, given its exceptional importance for the entire criminal justice system to approach the creation of a new text of the law. Also for the reasons that numerous amendments and additions of the Penal Code have created a discrepancy between certain provisions of the law, resulting in its discrepancies in the gravity of the prescribed sanctions for certain offences and that, in the meantime, a fundamental procedural law has been passed, that the Law on Criminal Procedure has been passed, the Law on Juvenile Courts, therefore it is necessary to access systematic procedures and, therefore, to the basic criminal-material law, therefore, the Criminal Law. And that is why I will say immediately, for these reasons, that is why I support the adoption of this law, that is, at this stage, its proposal in the first reading. In my debate, I would like to refer to some of the newspapers, some of the new institutes proposed by this Penal Code, which I hold extremely significant and important, which have not attracted so much public attention, such as through normisation as a crime of non-payment of wages, non-payment of contributions, abuse of work, embezzlement, shame, slander, possession of drugs, abuse of trust in economic business or subsidisation fraud. Therefore, the incriminations had a lot of public talk, a lot of press talk, they were discussed on the parliamentary committees, and today there were a lot of speeches about them at the plenary session, so during this debate. Certainly one of the important newspapers I would like to mention is, for example, in the way of standardising the necessary defence where, in relation to the present formulation, there is no criminal offence now, it proposes to specify its effect in a way that the illegality of the act committed in the extreme need is excluded and strong fear is defined as a reason to exclude guilt, and thus the existence of a criminal offence committed in the necessary defence. So it's in line with the theory of normative guilt taken over and contained in this law. Accordingly, provisions on extreme urgency that now exclude not only punishment but also the existence of acts have been amended. Also, according to this new arrangement of the necessary defence and extreme necessity among the ingredients of guilt, the absence of any excusable reason is added. The amendments proposed by this law, which relate to the Institute of Obsolescence, which is of course extremely important for the sake of legal certainty. Most attention is drawn to the proposed suspension of the distinction between relative and absolute limitation and limitation deadlines. The established unique deadlines of old have been shortened, so far the deadlines of absolute, and the extended deadlines of relatively outdated. Of course, it raises the question of whether some of the deadlines are too long or too short. It's certainly for discussion. This is how the proposed deadlines seem acceptable to me personally, but this is as it has been spoken of more politically than the legal issue, which can certainly be discussed. As for the non-depreciation of criminal prosecution for certain crimes, there are still contained crimes of genocide, crimes of aggression, crimes against humanity, war crimes and crimes that are unagesome of international law. There are also criminal offences that do not become obsolete under the provisions of the Constitution, which is normable by the latest additions of the May Penal Code this year. Therefore, this also applies to the provision of the Constitution introduced by the amendments to the Constitution of June last year which caused, of course, great public attention, which complements the provisions of Article 31 of the new paragraph 4, which provides for it, so I will recall that there is no statute of limitations for war crimes as well as criminal acts in the process of conversion and privatisation committed at the time of the Homeland War and the peaceful reintegration of the war situation and the direct threat to the independence of the country's territorial integrity is prescribed by law and determines that the property benefit achieved by such acts will be subtracted. I also consider it a good solution to this law, which individualises the fine, so the newspaper is in the way of giving the fine. In fact, the current Law now provides for the pronunciation of the daily amount which is not only the income, but also includes the perpetrator's necessary costs and takes into account the overall property of the perpetrators, so when determining that daily amount. It is also proposed that, in the event of non-payment, the fine is forced to be charged through the tax administration and, if that is the case, the fine cannot be charged is replaced by the work for the general good at large and, ultimately, the sentence of the prison in accordance with the terms of the prescribed law. In contrast to the exchange of fines, the sentence of prison without prior attempted forced collection is contrary to the function of fines as a substitute for prison punishment because just fines such as the penalty for working for the general good as an alternative sanction has a function to replace or reduce the short term sentence of prison that the minister also spoke of. I also consider significant improvements in the security measures system introduced by this proposal of the Penal Code to be primarily in relation to the purpose which is determined with the aim of removing the circumstances which enable or encourage the committing of a criminal offence. It is therefore proposed that, with the existing mandatory psychiatric treatment, treatment of addiction, ban on performing calls, activities or duties, bans on driving a motor vehicle, therefore the introduction of new security measures is proposed to impose the mandatory psychosocial treatment of the visitation of certain places and association with certain persons, distance from the common household of bans on Internet access and protective supervision after the full execution of the prison sentence. As regards the applicable Act, it was deleted from the list of security measures because it is proposed to be treated as a special measure together with the confiscation of property benefit because the law defined the purpose of this measure did not highlight it in other security measures. It is also not foreseen as a security measure, a measure to ban foreigners because they are governed by administrative regulations, so the matter is governed by the law on foreigners. Here, therefore, are some of the reasons why I support this proposal of the Penal Code in the first reading, of course, that by the second reading there will be time for further grooming and debates on possible proposals that would improve the very expression of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77205	Thank you. It is up to President Karolina Leaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77206	I thank Mr. Vice President, here's just a few things, I'll probably repeat some of the statements we've already heard today, but I would certainly like to say that it's unwarranted to discuss that criminal law in a number of readings, it's a whole new text, with new provisions, and I'm sure we'll welcome on both sides of this assembly the adoption of a new Penal Code with the fact that of course we have some remarks many of which are already mentioned and I'll limit myself to all three or four things that I think are very important to highlight here. First of all, it is certainly necessary to welcome the fact that an expert debate has been held in which the representatives of NGOs have had the opportunity to participate, and in this respect I would certainly stress the importance of the participation of the human rights organisation and, in particular, in this context of the Centre for... Equality and their contribution to the normisation of Article 125 in Chapter 11, a violation of equality, as a basis for criminal responsibility, is introduced and the identity or injury of working identity, expression and sexual commitment, I think it is very important and that this is a good step that we have made here. Furthermore, in Chapter 12, when it comes to crimes against labour relations and social security, I would also welcome the criminal sanctioning of non-payments of contributions and non-payments with that, of course, also to point out that the word should be about pay or part of pay, and that is what we have been asking for for a number of years for the non-payment of wages to become a criminal offence, however, as it has already been pointed out, and the trade unions have sought justifiable dissatisfaction because of the fact that such a provision could be interpreted very closely or that the criminal act which was so normised could be considered only when it began.... And what concerns me here is, in fact, Article 134 that speaks of abuse at work that says that anyone at work or in relation to the work of another abuses, so I'm curious why the word entered here is repeated, isn't it enough to sanction but also the treatment of abuse once and not again. I can't quite agree with the colleagues who applauded the introduction here today of a new crime of disgrace and therefore sanctioning defamation. So in chapter 15, crimes against honor and reputation because I believe it is certainly necessary to stress that the Croatian Journalist Society's professional association in relation to this new article meant criminal acts of disgrace, Article 149, and the next Article 150 of the Defamation warned that or could endanger the freedom of expression and freedom of speech and the conduct of a journalist's work. So, journalists, or their professional association, thinks and warns that such a provision actually creates preconditions for disproportionate limitation of fundamental human rights, and because of the new way of calculating daily incomes, penalties for slander and a new criminal act of disgrace could be more than they are now and journalists believe it is inadmissible because they believe that this would endanger freedom of journalistic work. In this new criminal act of disgrace, a journalist may be punished even if he makes true claims but the judge estimates that these true claims are not in the public interest, so I would really like the minister to speak again about this issue. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77207	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Slavko Linic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. And it's a turn as the last respected representative of Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77208	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here I have applied for a debate or better to ask myself a question or to explain things to myself that I could better understand, given that I am legally ignorant, so I need certain interpretations in relation to some new things that this law provides for, and I don't know how they will behave in nature. In fact, laws are passed in order to standardise the behavior of people in society, laws are a kind of tool to be used with, they should be used and should not be used in the wrong way, assuming that it will all work that way. The penal law is also against the infringements that measure the difference of someone's abnormal behaviour in society and therefore follows certain sanctions, sanctioning, criminal provisions that are in advance incorporated into the law in order to somehow force them to act as provided for by the law. However, one topic has been coming out recently and for a reason, it is justified that it is the subject of sanctioning non-paying wages because it felt like a big problem in society and entering criminal law in the way that it has never entered before, but obviously the situation is such as we are all aware and it needs to be covered by the Penal Code. It was also said that non-payment of wages could be fined up to three years in prison if I understood correctly. So it's a great crime by the sanctions that can go, but I also know about certain laws intended for crimes, regulation in space, especially when we're talking about stone, about the use of mineral wealth in an inadequate way where the prison sentence was also provided for up to 5 years in prison. Whether there is an option of course theoretical but as a legal act which I do not see here in the law, to establish not that someone could not pay, but there is some analysis of it, but there is a possibility that up to one specific date for certain failures that were not simply the owners of the company or those who care about the business of the company in some way will be abliable, so that they do not have to fulfil that obligation, except for the obligation to fulfil the VAT or any other donations, taxes, cut in relation to the obligations of the State but not in relation to individuals. In any event, whether there is any possibility that something which this Penal Code provides to function in any other way simply devastates and says that because of special circumstances such a law will not be changed in a certain period of time. This from reading this law by respecting and accepting all that is stated in order to regulate the law, whether there is nevertheless the possibility that a certain group or a certain layer of employers from their social task that might be interpreted, the inability to cover costs is simply free from non-payments under the obligation to pay for all that is to the state but not to pay for those who are due or to whom they are, in fact, in nature in the offence or not in the criminal act, because now this has become a matter of criminal law. I'm curious about that at the level of principle, maybe it wasn't about writing. In the law, it may not simply be possible and not envisaged in other articles of the law, but I call for my legal ignorance, and as a citizen who needs to be interpreted in his own base for people who are also not at least part of the reasoning he could receive from this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77209	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want an extra one, final? Yeah. Honorable Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77210	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank everyone for the debate not only here in the assembly but also on the committees. We're a really big law and it's an extremely significant law. We have all your suggestions so to speak heard. Of course we're going to analyze them, but the way we feel the spirit of the debate, it seems to me that the law has been struck, and we've really adapted this bill to all of those phenomena that have actually happened in the last 10 years that haven't been covered by the current law. Here's to the last question about non-payment of salaries, there's almost no representative who hasn't touched that question. I think the provision is very precise and she's very clear. It sanctions the one who had the option, has the means available, and under B) has not nevertheless paid the wages, but has used those funds for some personal breakthroughs of his or her own. All these situations that we can discuss depending on what can happen in practice, as I already said in the introduction, you as an employer don't go through several competitions, so you don't have a job, so you don't have the resources, you don't have a place to pay your salary there's no responsibility. If your buyer hasn't paid you again, you don't have the funds, you can't be prosecuted again. So different situations are possible but I think this norm is quite precise and it clearly says what we're going to sanction. All that was related to the Committee on Gender Equality, this is how we look at it at first glance, but clearly we're going to analyze it within the working group. I agree with you that something is difficult to defend and that we will leave it in some law and that we should have equal access, we may not have best guessed in this proposal but we will see for another reading that we are actually equal here and to protect the good. Once again, here's a thank you all for the debate, we're really going to analyze everything, and for the second reading, I believe we're going to prepare an even better proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77211	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the imported representative DAmir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77212	It is clear that workers are not slaves or farmers, and they must be paid. But we have one question like this. If I have 100,000 kunas, I have 50 thousand kunas to pay my salary, and I pay the VAT 30 grand, I pay the goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77213	What are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77214	I pay 50 grand for the goods and I get a 20-pound loan, then am I going to jail?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77215	Your Honor, what are you correcting? Thank you very much. Nothing. It's not a correction, it's nothing. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77216	We're moving on to a proposal of the Penal Code. First reading, P.Z. No. 866. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. First, a proposal of the Penal Code is accepted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The result? The proposal's conclusion was accepted by most votes, 108 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77217	We will now move on to - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on spatial planning and construction, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 829 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Lawmaking, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Branko Bačić, Minister for Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction Here you go. [[Invader Cain: Join the Vice President of both laws.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77218	Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77219	Just a minute, just a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77220	How about we put the two laws together if we agree to that counsel?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77221	The proposal is not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77222	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction was drawn up after almost four years of monitoring the implementation of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which showed certain irregularities and legal gaps in the text of that law which negatively affected its implementation, which were assessed as being able to remove the amendments and additions to it without changing the concept of governance and the protection of space. It is important to note that the proposed amendments and additions will significantly speed up the production and adoption of spatial planning documents and the issue of acts implementing that law. This will contribute to the realisation of a number of investments or their acceleration, which is in line with the government's action plan to remove obstacles to investment in the Republic of Croatia and will speed up the procedures for issuing building permits to every resident of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed final draft of the law addresses the following issues. A simpler and more flexible system of spatial arrangement is created, deadlines for the development and adoption of spatial plans are shortened, the need to draw up a number of implementing spatial plans is reduced, their financing is facilitated and their adoption accelerated. The direct financing of the planning and arrangements of the building land for its owner is enabled, the procedure for issuing local permits and other acts for the implementation of documents of spatial planning and works for construction, construction and their changes or additions has been shortened. Presumptions have been created to prescribe a number of buildings and works that can be built or carried out without a local permit or building act with an increase in the safety of these buildings. The final proposal for a law on spatial planning and construction was drawn up after a debate was held in this House under the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Spatial Planning of 17 June this year. This final draft law did not alter the existing concept of space management and protection. It is important to point out that the parliamentary procedure supports the proposal to amend laws that significantly accelerate the production and adoption of spatial planning documents, the implementation of works on construction and other procedures. All proposals from the debate have been supported, making the system of spatial order simpler and more flexible. In accordance with certain observations and proposals made during the first reading, both by committees and clubs and by individual representatives, the final proposal for a law in relation to that proposal which has been discussed differs in the following. First of all, a basic standard of digital cartographic depictions of spatial plans was prescribed to be delivered to the Ministry of the Croatian Institute of Spatial Development and to offices for spatial planning of counties. Furthermore, county offices for spatial planning and further allow the development of spatial plans of the area of specific features and spatial plans of urban and municipal arrangements, and introduces the possibility of developing implementing documents of strategic interest for the state, or county. In a different way than the first reading, the way in which the responsible head of the production of a spatial order document is treated in the case of illegal requests when making up that document and the consequences of the procedure in this case, instead of his release from responsibility in the case of written warning, shall be governed by the suspension of the draft plan until the decision of the urban inspection. Furthermore, the difference is that the authority to give consent to the adoption of spatial implementation documents in the protected coastal area must be transferred from the ministry to the county but to the adoption of these documents in the construction area of the settlement, and the consent to the adoption of implementing documents of spatial arrangements in the protected coastal area of the sea in a separate construction area outside the settlement remains in the power of the ministry. The ban on planning and construction of buildings intended for the exploitation of renewable energy sources in the protected coastal area of the sea is then not prescribed. Furthermore, the obligation to deliver the main project is left to an idea project designer to give an opinion in the event that the project was not designed by the same designer and the obligation to deliver the project project to the project designer to give an opinion in case the project was not designed by the same designer. In addition, additional conditions are prescribed for the possibility of setting up tourist buildings intended exclusively for accommodation in the area of catering and tourism purposes T1 and T2 outside the settlement and the obligation to ensure the maintenance and use of common parts of these buildings and the obligation to entrust the building to a specific person. It is important to point out when I talk about the possibility of staging, that in areas such as the possibility of enrolling in T1 and T2 zones has been largely and incorrectly interpreted. In fact, even the current Law on Spatial Planning and Construction does not prohibit the establishment of accommodation units, but we only want these changes to be clearer and more precise to define the process of internships and to achieve that the evaluation does not change the purpose of the building i.e. they should continue to remain for tourist purposes. In this respect, and this final proposal also defines the need for a contract between the owners of an established part and the company managing the settlement in order to achieve that the established real estate is still being used in accordance with its basic purpose and at a time when its owner does not reside in that building. This final bill was also drawn up itself in collaboration with professional associations and other professional institutions, associations of counties, cities and municipalities, county institutions and all interested ones. What I would like to conclude here is that the adoption of such changes and additions to the law itself will not cause any concreteisation, nor the apartmentisation of the Croatian coast, because all the protection mechanisms prescribed in the basic law remain in force. On the contrary, in a certain part of the proposed final draft law in a simpler and more transparent way enables better control and control of the implementation of spatial order documents. Therefore, on behalf of the Government and on this occasion, I would like to reject any indication that these amendments and additions to the law will contribute to further concreteisation and apartmentisation of the coast, moreover, because I said that through additions and amendments to the article, which defines the possibility of setting up accommodation units clearly prescribed the instruments, i.e. the tools that need to be achieved in order to even record certain zones of T1 or T2 when the clear owner of that zone decides to use that possibility to carry out or to legal traffic certain accommodation units. Here, Mr. Vice President, so much for the introduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77223	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative, Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77224	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the presentation on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to warn you of a few things, and I have said these things and I will speak on behalf of the Club and in the first reading. This bill amends 120 articles from a law that has slightly more than 300 articles. It gets very much into the matter of the law, and it's common if more than 30% of the law changes then the new law is passed. So it is not clear why, for this formal reason, the legislator of this law has not decided to present a completely new proposal for a law on spatial planning and construction to parliamentarians and MPs. The second reason why the proposer should have submitted a new proposal for a law on spatial planning and construction is because the reasons for the adoption of such amended law are such that it is necessary to adopt a fully new Law on spatial planning and construction by means of a large measure. In the SDP Club, we believe it would be wise and necessary to separate the matter of spatial order from the material of construction because the objectives of spatial planning are different from the objectives of construction and therefore it is not logical to have one and the other matter united in one law, which unfortunately shows that spatial planning and spatial planning is always a weaker component in the whole story, i.e. that construction is always a more dominant partner in this relationship. I think that in the SDP Club we are also in agreement with the government, i.e. with the HDZ Club, I guess other clubs, that the objectives of this law are acceptable and necessary, which is how we believe in the SDP Club to speed up procedures and encourage a new investment cycle, an investment cycle that will also lead to Croatia's economic recovery. But the question is, will this bill really lead to it? In fact, if we look at the situation in spatial order and in general in the territory of the Republic of Croatia lately, and in particular in the Adriatic area, we can notice that there is a giant speculative form of investment that is increasingly coming down to the price of land being re-purposed with spatial plans, and that even if they are a spectral sign in terms of their very innovative relationship with the environment and towards space in extreme cases, they do not actually come. According to information available in Croatia, there are at least 800 such projects in the coastal area that are planned to be implemented. And there I would like to know how many of these projects that have actually already been given green light through means that the necessary space-plan conditions are actually realized, and how many of these projects are at rest, i.e. investors who have succeeded in resulting changes in spatial plans in such a way that they have increased the actual price of this land now keep these land in a standstill and calculate with the price. Unfortunately, the state has not developed any protection mechanisms to protect itself from such a form of speculant relationship to extremely valuable territory, i.e. areas and areas, especially in the coastal area, and there is no instrument so called. positions of rents which would detimise such a type of to God's investment. The fact is that this bill, regardless of the whole territory of the Republic of Croatia, will have particularly important effects on our literary territory and ultimately in the other law that we are going to discuss today, which is this law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, says that Croatia has recently been particularly exposed to this litoralisation. Although this bill has been corrected in relation to the first reading in some parts, unfortunately, the adjustments we had had to see in this bill are not deep enough and high enough to change something drastically with this bill itself. We believe that it is positive that there is no longer a ban on planning and construction of buildings designed to exploit the sun's power in the protected coastal area of the sea, which is extremely important in view of some of the declared objectives of increasing the percentage of renewable energy sources in the overall energy picture of Croatia. And there's a few more, so the corrections that happened. However, that ghastly remark that went in the first reading, which was in principle that such a bill actually promotes one point and local urbanism, unfortunately, was not accepted. In this sense, it is not clear what is expected to be obtained in this amendment to the law in principle. Because unfortunately, in the SDP club, we believe that this Law will not lead to an increase in investment in tourism and in general in certain economic forms that may have been difficult in realisation because of the many complicated procedures related to spatial planning and the exit of necessary building permits but that it will now be strengthened and now there is a mechanism present, which is that extremely valuable space in the coastal area of Croatia is used exclusively as a lazy variety of speculators and developers who do not actually have an interest in the realisation of such projects, but simply through the reuse of certain spatial-plank documents which will now be easier to come to their land that they have bought a new price and that simply by lying down on that land, not by using this land as a function, and I stress once again they are not obliged to do so, i.e. It will not, unfortunately, lead to the real realization of various projects that could trigger the economy in Croatia. In the law proposal itself, i.e. in a particular explanation, which is why certain remarks that we in the SDP Club have not been accepted in the first reading are quite as if in a simple dictionary or even easy to reject our claims that in a way that is no longer binding on the making of certain implementation documents of spatial planning does not encourage this very, very harmful urban urbanism, and is also ignored or in some way nihilistically perceived and that it is not encouraged to encourage such a bill and this point of urbanism which can indeed cause invaluable damage in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and the territory of the Republic of Croatia is the most valuable resource of the Republic of Croatia. And for this reason, in the SDP club, we believe that realisation, meaning the implementation of such a law could cause so much damage that we will never be able to recover from this damage, and we have had the opportunity to see that the space-plan policy in the Republic of Croatia has so far looked, and this is the best part of the fact that we will discuss as the next item of the agenda and the law that speaks of the recovery of illegally built objects. In this sense, we hope for it if nothing else to consider at least the third reading of this extremely important law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77225	Thank you. It is next to the HDZ club, the distinguished representative Marina Matulović Dropulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77226	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction in a second reading that accepted a series of proposals from the debate in the first reading. What I must say right away is that it is good that the amendments and amendments of the law were made, not in the making of a new law, because the strategy for the management and protection of space remains the same and has not been changed. As we know, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction was adopted in the Croatian Parliament in 2007, and entered into force 1.1.2008. After four years of law enforcement and the monitoring of its effects, certain irregularities in its pronunciation have been observed, certain legal gaps, and the need for further explanations, in particular due to the changes in laws that must be harmonised between them. The need for further harmonisation of the law in question with the European Community Directive on services on the internal market and the need to comply with the recently adopted Fire Protection Act has also been established. In the current law, particular attention is paid to the creation and adoption of spatial plans of units of local self-government because without them there is no possibility of the development of any municipality or city, so neither can Croatia. It is significant that in 2004, an amendment to the law was passed, which re-established the deadlines for the development of spatial plans after 2002, so we can say that at last all units of local self-government and 556 had spatial plans, and in 2004 there were only 113. In the adoption of spatial plans, the problem of too long production and the very adoption of spatial plans has been seen, so it is good that all deadlines are shortened, the process simplifies, determines a reduction in the number of spatial plans. For example, I have to say that a certain city or municipality had a spatial plan of the city but within it there are 60 different implementation plans such as urban planning and detailed plans which in any case is not good because we know that some have secured their jobs, and the fact is that by law it was necessary because the law was definitely and exactly said when to do urban planning, and when to do a detailed plan. It is clear, then, that where 60 plans were planned, five or six plans were to be made by law. This Law facilitates the financing of their production and the strengthening of the role and responsibilities of the counties in the regulation and protection of the protected coastal area of the sea in part of the implementation documents of spatial planning. In this proposal, amending and supplementing the law, it is still possible for county institutions that have teamed up and have become generally good designers of plans to draw up all plans, not just county plans, to make. A plan maker's obligation has been established to warn the ministry of illegality that it has provided for the task of units of local self-government or investors and will then be stopped by the time the urban inspection does its job, i.e. the adoption of a spatial plan. It allowed mayors to agree on implementation plans in the construction area of the PDO instead of the ministry. This proposal for amending and supplementing the law gave investors the opportunity to build the necessary infrastructure for their facilities, but capacity and all the conditions such infrastructure must be determined by the local self-government unit. The most debate has led to the possibility of staging tourist facilities if they are exclusively used as accommodation facilities. This proposal amends and complements the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction complements this provision in such a way that everyone who sells or purchases a certain property is obliged to enter into a contract on management and maintenance with a person registered for the purpose of carrying out the tourist activity and who undertakes to participate in the settlement of the costs of maintenance of the facilities in the function of the tourist zone in which the building is located. What may be most disturbing in the various discussions that have been happening so far is that it is about the Committee on Spatial Planning or Professional Organisations, which is almost exclusively about the coastal area. We have beautiful areas throughout Croatia. This law also speaks of spatial planning throughout Croatia and self-resistance or self-repairing of issues only of the coastal area we think is wrong and cannot be accepted. As for the talk about the appearance of various watchdogs, who bought land where construction is planned, as I must say, that so far from all indicators it is clear that the most developers have in Zagreb, and much less in the coastal area. And I must also warn that property is unquestionable and to put some fuses on that the country will one time stand empty that is the case for parcels that are empty compared to the others, let's say the entire street that has parcels of one to the other built. In the Law on the Communist Economy, it was clear and loud that these people had to pay communal compensation for it because, even though there was no one on that parcel, this parcel had to be paid for part of the municipal fee to have public lighting, to clean the streets, bays and the like. The Constitutional Court annulled it. Therefore, there is no possibility of putting and affecting property now in a way that prohibits anyone, or restricts the time limit for a specific location to be empty because, unfortunately, it will fall in the Constitutional Court. And just one more thing, the positional rent exists in Croatian legislation. The most important thing is that all government and all power are given to local self-government units to establish their own positional rent. Therefore, the positional rent, unfortunately, has not yet been used by a single unit of local self-government. Thank you very much. The HDZ Club will, of course, accept this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77227	Thank you. It's up to the IDS club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77228	Vice-President, Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament has been mistaken, but well perhaps this law is good for the continent, pardon for the continental part of Croatia, but I do not think it is good for the coastal part of Croatia. Why? It's because of this staging of tourist facilities. I personally consider this to be one of the most perfident ways to please tycoons, or those I don't know in '91, '92, '93. without any white and no black came into possession of immeasurable capital. And I really think that this is one of the most harmful laws if voted, and probably will, at least as far as the future of the coastal area is concerned. Now let's go, where's the problem? The problem is that gentlemen are standing up and the problem will be irreparable for a large part of the hotel sector in our country. We in Istria have between 4 and 5 thousand apartments in the hotel sector. These are these ex-state facilities we know by the names "Rivijera", "Anita", "Blue Lagoon", "Arena tourist", "Rabac", "Istra tourist", etc., etc. Only in Porestin where we were being pulled out of the data do we have 2 288 apartments. So in one of the Rivieras... who first saw or heard of Croatia in '91. We have 1,406 apartments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As many suites as there are Count... or his home in Dubrovnik, Rapco I don't know. The "Blue Lagoon" Chileanac Luksic owner or his family has 505 apartments. In "Anita" in Vrsar, the guys from Rovinj have 277 apartments, 900 apartments in Rovinj, etc. So, what will this law of Istria bring? These tycoons can easily bring or raise their assets for a brother 1 billion euros. One square metre in those apartments will certainly not be sold below 3,000 euros at the most attractive locations in Istria and Croatia. This will lead to the development of the tourism company's law. It will destroy the tourism industry as we know it by now. I'm afraid this will lead to the collapse of domestic employment in these facilities. Some will say that by selling these apartments because no one will sell what is most attractive on the very edge of the coast, there will be money for additional investment in the hotel sector. Owners on the other side of the hotel sector or these companies, and the same state has clearly donated them, except that today they have become the biggest coastal area masters will take over all the real estate trade. I'm afraid it can then lead to the destruction of construction, the petty entrepreneurship we know through the construction of a house, a villa, etc. It will destroy the small service trade, the money will be drawn from Istria even though it is being withdrawn anyway because all free capital, one Riviera invests in Dubrovnik, Dubrovnik is part of Croatia anyway but the fact that this money remains where it is being realised and therefore I think a law like this should be stopped, but I also think it will not happen because in these few months until the election every new legislative proposal is consciously suited to people who have capital in this country and who may be helping the team in power through some form. What is equally evident in this year 2011 on the basis of tourism land in the state budget will not be entered by a single kuna, but that is not all, we now have some state's attorneyship procedures that clearly try to take away literally that tourist land on which our municipalities or our cities are registered, which is far more serious than I dare say from this bill itself. That's not what we're going to give to the optanists. It's not the problem of Madam Representative returning the kidnapped. It's what needs to be done. The problem in this country is the privatisation of 91s. It's lost to 100 billion kuna, it can return 1 billion kuna. I said before that communism was very bad, the Italians in Istria did not support the Mussolini regime, but 90% of those people moved out after the war. And tens of thousands were killed in the ranks of NOB. It is true that the Italians did not accept the truth to the division of the church, all the Italian priests left Istria on 47th and 54th respectively became Croats and Slovenians, so to what kind of policy is being led... but I want to say that nothing returns to the optants is a fact. That's all I wanted to do was get on with the debate from before. I say it one more time, I'm having a bit of a controversy. There's nothing coming back to the optanists. It means that today is a far more serious problem, that our cities have managed to register on this tourist land, a little petty but they are, and today the DORH is contesting these books and I'm afraid that politics is behind it. It agrees with the DORH that the state is co-owner with MAI Istria in Vrsar but not with Vrsar municipality, if that is not the agreement of the state and the company I do not know what we are discussing, but it is not an agreement of the state and the company to the harm of the state or Vrsar and for the benefit of the individual, or capital, I also do not know what we are discussing. If that's not the agreement of the state and the capital to give something else to the capital then we really don't know what we're talking about. But I'm afraid the state knows very well what it's doing, it's fitting, on behalf of its authority now through the DORH private capital. YES, one of our mayors or mayors does it or think about it, but right now tomorrow he's going to jail for five years, brother brother brother at least that much, and that's why I'm really asking if he has authority in this country to sort of stop that practice. Well done, MAI Istria, to each other, but let's not just tear down local self-government. As far as staging is concerned, clearly if tomorrow someone in those areas wants to valorize touristically, express how to express myself, then they will also have to work and behave like those houses were built there in the '60s or '70s. One Riviera has 15 or 20 hotels with a circus of so many campsites, 1400 mentioned and some apartments, and that will happen around again, a situation which has been in Croatian tourism to this day is seen as having existing houses when the word in Istria was built by only two new hotels, one in Umag one in Rovinj. So in Rabac none, in Medulin none, in Pula none, in VRsar none, in Poreč none, in Novigrad none in Umag one. Now let's let the Hypo Bank that she financed, whatever she did, they didn't do anything. To end, so as not to owe any more of this, I really pray that some authority, the normal state will say we don't have anything to do with DORH, through the DORH, I can tell this speaker to stop the proceedings because that's where one kidnapping is going to be given to the state in private. It's not good, it's not promising, and I think it'll be damage per country as a whole, not just for the municipality of VRsar or Funtana or where the company owns it. The fact is that these companies pay according to government estimates three kuna per square metre per year, where the city is about 20 kuna, they clearly pay nothing because they are not already being paid. But I think that this practice requires someone to simply, that practice needs to be cut because ultimately local self-government or the state is losing what's always been hers.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77229	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the HNSH Club, the esteemed representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77230	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. During the debate in the first reading on this proposal, the Club of the Croatian People's Party of the Croatian People's Party supported the first reading, hoping that in the second reading we will gain by respecting all the observations made, I repeat all the objections made on the parent board and through the debate that will be included in the final draft law and that in the second reading we will receive a proposal for a law that is sustainable, a law that is effective. Because when we talk about this topic, then exclusively, I repeat, a law that is sustainable and that is effective can resolve this system. The fact is and it is to be commended that, compared to the first reading, a whole series of remarks are included with this bill. However, this does not mean, and in the opinion of us from the Croatian People's Party Club, the Croatian Party of Retirement does not mean that we have received a law that is effective and a law that is fast, especially taking into account the deadlines set out in this bill. The fact as my colleague Holly has said that this law introduces the point of urbanism, the fact that, in practice, illegal buildings are being brought into the same position in areas that are urbanized, as well as in areas that are not urbanized. And what are the consequences just from that point of view? What are the consequences for local self-government units? My chief in my Bednja in case it is legalized, and under this law there is the possibility of legalising an illegally designed building in an area that is unurbanized has a legal obligation to provide basic municipal infrastructure. He has this legal obligation. As we have highlighted this problem through our first reading, we stress it today, and we do not believe that sufficient and quality solutions have been offered in this segment, and that these areas should and that it is necessary to distinguish them with this legal proposal, which is the position of the units of local self-government. Practically, the whole burden is on them, out of records that must be in relatively short time and question and question whether there are capacities. Realistically in all units of the local administration, in a very short time they have to make a register, in a very short time they have to go in changing spatial plans, is that it is by simplified procedure that is correct. However, is this realistic since this law expires on 31 December 2012. We handle and debate one piece of 150 thousand illegally built objects is constantly going through the debates. But do we have 150 thousand illegally built objects? I know it's the second law. What are we talking about today? About illegally built buildings.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77231	No, it's the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77232	I'll put it on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77233	Well, nothing, so go ahead and do the other one, and then it's over. Now go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77234	I'll go back to the subject because colleagues and colleagues, these topics are connected. These topics are completely connected. These topics are fully related, therefore, there is no reason to be upset about it and that is good. And that's certainly good, because from the position of this particular topic I'm talking about, which is the legalization of illegally built objects. Right from that position, what is the position of the local self-government unit? Is there even open space there? And is that even possible? I really need to check it out now. Obviously, I made a mistake reading the list, so in this segment, I'm going to stop, and I'm going to go on in the other one, for sure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77235	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Honorable representative of Luke Denon, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77236	So, I hope I don't miss this debate about this law. If I have read and heard correctly, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction is before us the second time. Both the first and second times he came before us with a basic thesis that makes us go into these amendments and additions to this law, which would allow the investor to come to all possible papers more easily, more quickly and quality, through these changes and complements, in order to build or put into operation certain areas to help that way and economic development in the Republic of Croatia go one different way, faster. So, the tendency of the law was to simplify the procedure for paper outcomes so that there could be a faster economic recovery in the Republic of Croatia in such a way as to try and please the investor in any case. Now if that was the reason why we went into these amendments and the additions to this law, then tell me what bothered us so far that we didn't get investors who were running around and they were people to our bureaucracy that we were slow and that we had too much paper so that they could achieve their economic projects that would contribute to the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. In any case, the previous law did not hold back a good investor so strongly that it could lead to economic recovery in the Republic of Croatia. I may wrongly understand what an economic recovery is, I suppose, that these are investments that will create new jobs, investments that will make sure that new people are employed, investments that will be cut short by drive, factories. That is how I see economic recovery as well. But tell me, how many in the Republic of Croatia do we have economically large zones, how many small economic zones, in the county, in local self-government units? I don't believe there's any more serious unit of local self-government that doesn't have its own one or more small or medium or large economic zones in which the assumption is that all these investors who are well-intentioned might be able to do or do something there. But here it seems to me that there is too much change in all the articles here, so we should be more concerned about making a new law. And as much as we try to say that in this way it is not the strategy of spatial planning in the Republic of Croatia that has been curtailed in this way by changes and additions, it seems to me that this is the case. And despite the improvements we have received in this second reading, it remains as much as Mr. Ministers have tried to tell us that this internship is not a major evil for the Republic of Croatia, there remains one impression that, with this economic recovery, we have somehow concentrated all of us on this internship. It is obvious that, as hard as you try, there is the possibility that at the end of the story it will be wrong again and that what my colleagues were talking about will come to the sale of such well-known apartments and that there will be an unsightly one I would say so again, and especially what this refers to both the coast and what was made by the sea. In this way they are placed in an unfavourable way and investors who have invested in hotels where the return on investment accounts is about 20 if not more years, and these will, in one and faster way, come to their return but of course, also make profits. It also remains with the 58th article, to increase part of the building particle from 20 to 50 which the Republic of Croatia and local self-government units are obliged to sell to the owner of the rest of that particle for the purpose of enabling it to be formed and built on the same. So, another possibility that we said don't put it into law because it also implies that there can be abuse in a different way. Now, in this law, there are some issues that are regulated by law, you taxed, I'll apologize to the Minister for not being much of an expert, but here somewhere near the end on the page. 33 says this, with changes and additions of course to this law "presumes are being made for the regulation of a number of buildings and works that can be built or carried out without a local permit and or a building act with an increase in the safety and legality of these buildings". How can this now be regulated by this law to create assumptions, that something is going to be built without a building permit or a building act, and that will ultimately increase the safety and legality of these buildings. A little bit behind this agenda point, we're going to have each other talking about illegal construction, and in this way it seems to me that if this law does so, we're implying that in some way we're going to support illegal construction, if I've read it correctly, and so it says. Okay, I didn't read it right, I guess. So, despite your warnings or your opinion that staging and that these increases from 20 to 50% mandatory sales of state or local land will do so to bring about economic recovery. I don't think it's going to be like that, but it's also a professional public, and we're all somehow convinced that it's leading to something else, which is that it suits individuals and some who are waiting for this law to be passed so that they can benefit greatly from it. So here's what I suggest is that we don't rush through the adoption of this law and try to see if in the third reading with greater participation and the public but also greater participation and professions and other organisations can make it at least take the doubt out of this law, that it will please investors who want to get rich just quickly, and not increase this economic development in the way it's imagined by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77237	Thank you. We have a replica of the distinguished representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77238	Dear counterpart Denona, there is another very important reason why it would be wise to pass a new Law on spatial planning and construction, which is that the laws of the Republic of Croatia are primarily intended for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So can you imagine how these citizens and citizens are coping with laws that change in this scope, the law on amendments and additions to the law of 120 articles, i.e. almost 120 articles. And since we know that the consolidated texts of the law are very rarely published in Croatia, I think it would be a very quality solution if a new law were passed that would make it much easier for investors and citizens who want to invest in construction. And for that reason, I again express a lack of understanding because the proposing has not decided on a whole new Law on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77239	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77240	Well, of course, yes, my colleague, it should, however, make it a little bit simpler for this change to be more precise and, of course, clearer. Spacious planning as a way of living in the Republic of Croatia, which should have some kind of strategy for this spatial planning that cannot and should not be changed from four years to four years. So this is where everyone together should agree what to do with one small country that has such resources that we and others come here to do for a longer term, not just because of us, but because of our children, because of our grandchildren. Because when we make a mistake in this spatial planning we haven't done it in just four years, we have done it for a long, much longer period of time because such a destroyed space can be difficult to return to its original state to be attractive and that in some way Croatia will remain as it is, beautiful and thus ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77241	Thank you. It's your honor, Mr. Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77242	Thank you again, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I have answered on behalf of the congregation minority to talk about this, the congregation minorities as much as all of us here are people who deal with this problem professionally, in their everyday lives, knowledge and interest. In that sense, we are a minority but a minority, which this law very much touches, not only at the level of social events but at the level of performing its kind of profession. However, in this House very often, things are being discussed in a way, as many general places are being said in Serbia, and almost different topics are being discussed, and in the same way the discussions are coming down, and then they run away from being why it is. One of the key remarks on this law, with one key finding positive, that, since the first reading on the second reading, things have been advanced in terms of the observations that have been made, etc. One of the general remarks was why no new law was passed, but it was about amending and supplementing the law. I am also of the opinion of my colleague Dropulić, congratulating your opinion because it matches mine, that it was better to amend the law than the new law. The new law would raise more questions as to why a new law is being passed at this time, and besides that, there are not many amendments in this law but there are amendments that behave according to the domino effect, and one article has pulled many other articles together to make a difference, not only with a statement but simply by harmonising things in order. So there are not so many key changes to the law that it would actually be, that one new spirit of the law would be read from this rather than just one different application of the existing law. That's how I read it. But then let's start with the fact why laws are even passed, why laws are being amended. So there's some motive, there's some goal that was. In this law, the first thing I read is the need and the meaning of why it was adopted, of course we did not consult, I did not give advice to change the law but it came up as a need because the economy of Croatia is trying to get as much out of one lethargy as possible, out of one sleepiness and try to find motives to start. It is indisputable with all the talks about possible corruption, about possible everything else that exists that construction is one wheel, the driver of one economic development, and at the time of the war, I was looking forward to the fact that when the war ended, I would be the first to come to work when everything started with the projects and goes forward. I've been wrong a lot, it hasn't started that way, and now we've gotten to the point that that wheel has stopped a little bit and the contracts I have signed could be quiet for 4, 5 years. They just don't happen because it's all really expensive. But to be clear, the contracts I have are not a question of apartments, but it's a question of both hotels and factories, infrastructure facilities and churches or churches, one. So the structure that I normally do these things is different. One thing is to think of any new proposal very difficult and bad when it feels, when it actually smells everywhere, whenever we turn our noses everywhere we smell, of course because we've come across something that smells, for a reason it stinks, but if it smells everywhere, then you won't actually feel where it really smells, then you start to say it smells and where it doesn't smell anything where everything is perfectly clean and fine. So, if I were to say that we started to change this law with the aim of launching this one clog of entrepreneurship in construction, and with... in the construction industry and all the things that build something, so all these production plants, and not housing, even though we see that our apartments are still very, very missing, and that we already have too many. [[You can't hear it.]] Then you'd still be considering your... the property of the minority in relation to the profession, the calling and occupation would be caught by the comment of what is concrete in the law, assessing in general that these amendments and amendments to the laws are welcome in relation to that... [[You can't hear it.]] In society, in the economy, in my profession, it was necessary. [[You can't hear it.]] So, firstly, I would stress all those changes that took place in terms of simplifying the process and the procedures to get to the permits, which may at the same time indicate the fact that, in part before that, much has been bureaucratized, a lot of consent has been sought, and perhaps because the law had not been bureaucratized and asked for a lot of consent because it would have been good, but the practice has shown that we are too resilient to do so and that even though the law does not require us to do so. However, the reduction of certain weather definitions from 90 days to 30 days, from 30 days to 15 days shows at least the legislator's intention... I can tell you now taxing some things that I think are worth the attention. ... [[You can't hear it.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day [[You can't hear it.]] The new paragraph three states that what is foreseen by the spatial plan can be addressed in a certain way by the implementation documentation. So, by implementing the phase that this can happen and give up or add a new independent of what is planned, it seems to me that there is one particular collapsing that we are no longer predicting a certain implementation procedure with the plan, and that we do not have to adhere to it or that we can supplement it with something else. That's a little questionable to me in relation to the practice that it is. In any event, I agree that the definition of the spatial arrangement implementing document is more appropriate because it defines different forms of more detailed procedure. So, you don't have to talk about the detailed plan and urban planning, but the implementing document, because maybe some other document will show up, so you don't have to change like we used to have urban projects in scale 1:500 in which we have defined some things as a mixture of architecture and urbanism. I've already said that that cut-off day that's given to someone to talk about it is better decided to cut it short. It also seems to me that it is also in a good proposal to change the validity of the duration of the local authorisation, i.e. until it lasts, or when the next phase comes to end that period. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is also more detailed because the practice has led to a better conclusion in Article 56 than in Article 122 of the basic law, by providing investors with much more freedom, i.e. the right to negotiate between local self-government units and specific investors with more detailed arrangements as they are made available to speed up their own problems. In Article 58, in relation to Article 128 of the previous Law, the law of illegal buildings seems questionable to me until that other law to which this Law is called has yet to be adopted at least at this time. But I guess the promoter went with the belief that the other law would pass, and then automatically in the package go together otherwise in the order of talks he needed the one before and then only this one. Because what's hypothetical if you don't bring it in. It seems to me that it is also good in Article 61, as compared to the 179th basic law, that the projector must accept the obligation of design supervision if the investor asks him to do so. I think it's a welcome commitment that was needed to say. And in Article 66, that is, Article 190, you lack an explanation in the materials, which is why it is so done. You miss that. [[Employing Capricorn: Bring the end.]] In any case, it seems that from the first to the second reading there have been more important quality solutions and that this Law in that sense, and I was still thinking of some articles, but I will add this as my amendment to Article 11 and I will add my proposals and amendments to Article 18. Thank you very much. It's still burning red.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77243	Dear Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77244	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So here's what to say after these words we've heard from clubs and professions like fellow Jerko. I would just like to say that about the signification of simplification and acceleration of the process of documentation and o, therefore, how much this will boost investment we talked about enough last time. However, that is certainly what is most significant. Therefore, I would just like to say one more thing, which is that it is significant to point out that the changes have been made in cooperation with the profession, with professional associations, with citizens' associations, with interested institutions. So there was no cooperation with any tycoons or guessing anyone else. This is where the cooperation with the profession was carried out. It looks like we've been sitting on committees somewhere with some other colleagues and colleagues, so they've been on the board completely. What I would like to say, however, is more about the staging of tourist facilities in T1 and T2 zones because this is the part most actually spoken of. What was I gonna say? Well, I was going to say that the current Law on Spatial Planning and Construction was also allowed to record tourist buildings intended exclusively for accommodation. However, these changes will only make it clearer and more precise to define the evaluation process, which actually means that the internship does not change the purpose of the buildings, or they still need to remain within the framework of the tourism purpose. In this respect, the basis of the contract between the owners of the standing area and the settlement-run company would be used according to its purpose and if the owner did not reside in it. So, in fact, we're just here with these amendments to the law we're installing a control mechanism for purpose protection, so in T1 and T2. And that's the point to take care of anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77245	Thank you. We have one replica and one correction to an incorrect quote. The esteemed representative, Mirela Holly, is correcting an incorrect allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77246	Dear fellow Matkovic, I'd rather replicate it for you. However, I must correct your incorrect claim because it is not true that this bill is also supported by the profession in the second reading. It's just not true. Not only were associations such as "Green Action" which are primarily oriented towards environmental protection and space protection against this bill but they were also the Chamber of Architects against this bill and the Association of Croatian Architects, as well as some local organizations such as the Association of Architects of Dubrovnik, and individual architects who appeared to us. I would also remind myself that the public debate was not carried out in quality, that the time was not enough, and that the time between the two readings was very short and completely unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77247	Thank you. We have a replica, the esteemed representative of Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77248	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Matkovic, the very fundamental remark on this bill is the lack of involvement or full ignoring of certain professions that are very important for the area covered by this law. First of all, it is about engineers and electric engineers who, through their Chamber of Engineering engineers and electrical engineers, asked the Ministry to include them in the preparation, to deliver laws to them. They have been notified of certain objections, but are not invited to further meetings but are directed to submit observations to the session of the Parliament which is now being held. So only architects, builders, geodites were invited to the meeting as if they were the only ones involved in all this. Simply here was an ignored profession that I don't know of over a thousand engineering engineers who do design work, over a thousand electrical engineering engineers who do design work. So you can't say that it was a waistline. I am talking about a very serious and quality profession that is joined in Croatian chambers. So, not just about associations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77249	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77250	Well, my colleague Heffer, if you were a member of the Committee on Space Planning and Urbanism, and if you had attended the debates that were on the boards, then I'd say you were and I'd tell you you were right. However, I've been on both, and I know for sure one thing, and that is that these supplements have been carried out in cooperation with professional associations. You want me to list them for you? The Association of Croatian Urbanists, they were sitting there, Croatian architects, Chamber of Engineers of Construction, the Chamber of Architects, and not to list everyone else who was there. They were there and green, so Green Action, they were in the second reading. Therefore, it was carried out in cooperation with them. If they're going to support something, they can't vote on the board. I was talking about the board. Listen to me when I'm talking, I'm definitely right. My colleague Holly, you were there, like you and I weren't sitting in the same place. You were, we were on the board together.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77251	Thank you very much. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It's the Honorable representative of Dubravka Shuica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77252	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would briefly like to refer to this second law reading without entering these finesse since I don't even come from the profession, but I have little experience with work on spatial planning and construction. In any case, the strategy does not change as much as it can notice in either the first or the second reading and there is no concern of changing the strategy, developing the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia. What's to say hello, I must reiterate, is decentralisation. So that's what we said last time, this time it was found that the county offices and the mayors were given additional powers when it came to protecting the coastal belt. I think it's a good step. Then, it is also very important to reduce the number of small plans and as we now call them implementation documents of spatial arrangement. So the number of UPU and DPU plans. Because so far it's really been too much of that number, and it's been a major obstacle to development, and everything on the trail of the government's economic recovery programme. We want investment all the time, we want to speed things up, and when it does, we call it a bargain. I wish one time we could define a term of convenience. What does it mean to be comfortable here? I haven't heard the arguments that said that this internship goes in terms of guessing investors. We long for investment, and when that happens, when we want to liberalize a little to attract investment, then we call it a bargain. I don't think that's right. I wouldn't go into details. It is very important that in these settlements where there is an internship, it will determine the management of the facility and thus protect the entire area. What I would like to compliment briefly is the technique of how this law is written. One of the few times I noticed that between the first and second readings on each proposal by a representative by name and last name was answered as if we had already had the right to make an amendment in our first reading. I really commend the way this law was made and this could be called transparency. And in that sense, thank you, I won't be long because last time I had a little dilemma so it wouldn't turn out to be right now, and last time I had a dilemma about county institutions thinking they might be in conflict of interest, but I realized when I did a little bit of studying that county institutions were really necessary, that they were founded, and that it was one of the basic jobs that they were actually living on, and that I believed there wouldn't be a conflict of interest that killed me last time after I did the consulting, so I changed my position in the meantime. In any case, I welcome the law and welcome and hope that its implementation will allow the Croatian state and all our regions to remain developed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77253	Thank you. Honorable representative Daniel Srb is on his way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77254	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The importance of this law is extremely high above all because it has a strong impact on the investment climate, the promotion of investment, of course the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. And the competitiveness of the Croatian economy just last year experienced another decline on the global competitiveness scale, and that is precisely thanks to state institutions. So, it's those institutions that carry out these regulations that we now bring from the field of spatial planning and construction. I think we need a completely different authorisation procedure that needs to be clear, short. So one brand-new model of running the entire system. A model like this every time you look for certain improvements is actually complicated. Every time we talk about the need to simplify the process of issuing building permits and various other documents related to construction, the whole process is always complicated by increasing the various necessary documents, consent, beliefs, permits, etc. Instead of simplifying the whole system. A number of representatives of professional associations have also had a major objection to this particular law. A colleague Hefer has already said two chambers – the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Engineering and the Croatian Chamber of Electrical Engineering, which were ignored during the preparation of this law. So when they were asked to be included in it, they were supplied with material, they also made very extensive remarks on the bill itself, so that they would eventually be ignored again and would not be called at all for meetings that discussed the preparation of this particular bill. I believe that a thousand hundred engineering engineers and a thousand 400 electrical engineering engineers, authorised chamber members, are one respectable number of experts dealing with this particular problem and must not be bypassed when preparing legislation from this area, specifically their professional activities. As for the attitude of the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Engineering, it believes that the changes provided for by this law are essentially a cosmetic character without entering into the very essence of the problem. And this is the consistency of the application and interpretation of laws and regulations by participants in the construction process, especially from the state administration's offices at different urban and county levels, because different interpretations of the same regulations. Secondly, regulations defining the two ministries, so also the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction and the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which also has in its jurisdiction certain regulations, are adopted which do not comply with each other. And that represents a certain problem and this whole segment. It also lacks the implementation of energy efficiency in building buildings. Therefore, it does not apply to a sufficient extent. The deadlines and fees for issuing the project's opinion on the coherence of the project should also be better defined. Furthermore, there are very serious problems related to compliance with the Regulation on the prices of cabin services. In doing so, of course, only the members of the chamber are obliged to adhere to mandatory pricers of services, and that companies authorised by people who are not members of chambers do not actually have to do so which leads to riots among the prices of design services. It is also a matter of implementing design surveillance and introducing criminal provisions related to this particular area of project control. So I would like to conclude with that, that although I am deeply aware that writing every new law actually multiples possible problems, it is easier to improve existing documentation. But the whole process of issuing the necessary permits in this area needs to be radically changed, simplified if we want to make certain steps in improving the investment climate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77255	Thank you. And finally, in an individual debate, the distinguished representative Goran Heffer. Here you go. That's very good. On behalf of the HNS Club HSU 5 minutes, the final representative Zlatko Koračević. But it's the right subject, isn't it? Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77256	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'm using this business opportunity to do on behalf of the club about this law we're discussing. My excuse in misreading the agenda agenda lines for today's debate. The club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party in the debate after the first reading we made it very clear according to the law and the importance of this law. There is no need to repeat all the elements that have been said, but there is a need to thank the promoter that he has re-engaged the county institutions in making the documentation. Because it's certainly county institutions, especially those who seduce the counties who work responsibly, and almost certainly in these areas and have the least illegal facilities, it's these places that have preserved the space thanks to those people who, through time and raised the staff and respected the profession and respected what is very important both at that time and in those moments and legal obligations. It is good to open up the possibility for renewable energy sources that were limited in the first reading, and in particular I mean... Certainly, it is also very important that a measure is necessary, in any case, with the control mechanism that is necessary, on a whole series of examples from practice, which end or end in the Uskoski and other courts, say it is necessary. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is certain that this bill of law cannot protect the entire system as much as possible. But I repeat, these legal provisions open that space in this law, but almost certainly that is not enough, and that part or segment is not used in space. Almost certainly and we all agree that space is our most valuable resource, that it is very important matter for the future development of the Republic of Croatia. And I think it's also a generational obligation for us to leave that space in heritage that will allow for overall development in a sustainable and quality way. We believe that in the Club of the Croatian People's Party of Pensioners we believe that because of the importance of this resource, because of the importance of this matter, because of the importance and the observation of the entire interested public, and particularly professionally, no matter how much we want to believe or want to point out that they support this bill which is not true, we join our colleagues in the SDP Club, which is that this legislative proposal, with all the observations that have been made today in the debate and about which the expert public has also spoken that through the third reading one legal proposal has been incorporated and that, finally, in this Croatian Parliament, together, this bill requires that we adopt a law which will open the possibility of equal opportunities for all and abuse of all the things that have happened in this area for years. In this sense, the Club of the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party supports including part of the objection in this third reading, but for responsibility we propose and we will support this Law if the Proposer accepts the third reading and bring such a valuable and important law with consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77257	Thank you. Lastly, on behalf of the promoter of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, distinguished Branko Bačić, Minister of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77258	I would like to thank Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for the debate that has just been completed, and I would like to address several of the remarks made in the debate. First of all, I would like to say that the strategy of the spatial arrangement in the Republic of Croatia is a system of spatial planning and construction which the existing Law of 2007 has designed and arranged perfectly, and there is no need for a new law to be drawn up, but that, in the context of the existing law, what has already been in large part in this debate, the emphasis is to speed up certain procedures relating to the production of spatial documents and on the other hand, on the construction and, better said, the issue of local permits and works for construction. Since this is largely related to the definition of deadlines and procedures, then the change itself has withdrawn a very large number of articles that are being changed systematically, but the fact that a change in individual articles is automatically withdrawing is indeed a significant number of articles in the change, but in terms of the spirit of the law itself, in terms of the overall system of spatial arrangement has not changed much, or very little, and the fact that very little changes does not require the adoption of a new law. As for the expert public who participated more or less in this law, I will say that this Law, i.e. amendments and additions to this law, has been prepared for several months and since the first day of the first debate, in the law of the adoption of amendments and additions to this Law, have included all the professional chambers of so-called chambers and authorised architects of architecture, the building of geodesy, we later included the Chamber of Authorised Engineers of Engineering and Electrical Engineering, and that we accepted their suggestions to the greatest extent but let me say that we did not accept everything. I can understand the dissatisfaction of the individual chamber, however, I must say that in the end when the final bill is defined, we have received almost 100% support and the Chamber of Authorised Architecture Engineers and Constructions and Associations of Croatian Urbanists. In addition, all this time we have not only cooperated with them but in the last two months the amendments and additions of this Act have been made available on the web pages of our ministry and through these pages we have contacted a very large number of not only authorized chambers but also a very large number of associations. Therefore, such text and the proposal to amend and supplement the Law supported largely by authorised engineers and architecture, buildings, geodesies and other professional organisations. The problem once again, I am sorry that there are no representatives of Kajin here, so I would work for him, probably he will hear that according to the current legislation in the Republic of Croatia, there is an uptake of accommodation units in the Republic of Croatia and in this without any fence, and then I dare say that we have not changed the law with additional restrictions, brakes when it is recorded that all of those facilities that he counted are in Istria, and not only in Istria, but such accommodation units along the entire coast are now possible to record. Namely, this is an internship carried out by the administrative departments for the issue and implementation of documents of spatial planning and construction, and I have made little effort to discuss this debate, so I have brought certain certificates issued by the competent authorities in which they are already enabling the evaluation of both past the existing law and beyond these amendments and the additions that are in the Assembly procedure. In fact, when the accommodation units are established, the administrative departments of the relevant counties or cities base their procedures, clearly in the very disposition of the solution that they make, explain that the internship is implemented by the basis of the Law on Property and other real rights, and not even mentioning the law on spatial planning and construction. If the existing law cross and I say don't cross, or if this one allows and he allows but still with a number of additional fences or brakes that are provided for in the law itself, then until now it could not be implemented from the words of practice which is now in the Republic of Croatia under the Property Act and other real rights. Therefore, it is not carried out by the foundations of the existing Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which we have now established and explained to the section in which it refers to the catering and accommodation units and we have now made these amendments and additions to the Law, and we have made it clear and clear that and in what way the established facility, which is established under the Property Act and other real rights, can now be used and can only be used as an object of the accommodation unit for tourist purposes, in such a way that it does not reside in that facility between the owner of the zone and the future owner of the accommodation facility. In part, therefore, it is certainly the reason for such a denomination of the legislator in ignorance, and on the other hand I believe that there is little wickedness when it comes to the fact that this law will contribute to the concreteization and further apartmentisation of the Croatian coast and that it does not protect space. I fully responsibly claim that the current law perfectly protects space as the most important resource in the Republic of Croatia. That's what I've always said. And that this law has made no difference when it comes to the protection of space, and if we're already mentioning what's often mentioned in public these days, then I am fully responsible for saying that we have made certain brakes for such amendments and additions to the law, when it comes to staging and, on the other hand, we have clearly prescribed the purpose of such an existing facility. And calling against the establishment of a professional association of architects or the Association of Urbanists is not true. We also have an indication of the Croatian Chamber of Architects and Associations of Croatian Architects and the Association of Croatian Urbanists in the T1 and T2. Therefore, I would like to clearly reject the insinuations that say that through this law, what Mr. Cain said was a further robbery on the Croatian coast and that this law made it possible. No, exactly I refuse as an institution, a lie. I will repeat that under the current law, it is possible to do so, and that this law sets out the conditions for and how an established object can be used further. In the end, I just want to say that on behalf of the Government, we hold that the bill and the final draft of the law and the debate that was in the first and now in the final draft of the law is good enough and that, as far as the Government is concerned, there is no need to go into the third reading, so here's such an amendment the Government will not accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77259	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77260	Whatever law you make, whatever you think every legal initiative is not from today, but from yesterday and to forever and ever will go to the benefit of those who have, and not those who do not. So as well as this Law of Recording as I call it will go and go in favor of those who have, and not those who do not. Unfortunately, being humpy can't be fixed over time, and I'm afraid that's the way it's going to be in the future, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77261	Your Honor, what are you correcting? Thank you very much. Don't do this, but the second, third time today, you don't say what you're correcting. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77262	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. The second is reading. P.Z.E. No. 829. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. First of all, we will vote on the proposal for the conclusion of SDP, HNS and HSU clubs, which reads: The final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction will be carried out. During the debate, the applicant's representative did not accept this proposal as a conclusion. I therefore vote on the SDP, HNS, HSU's proposal to go to third reading. Let's please get involved and vote on a proposal that the government does not accept. The result? This proposal to go to third reading was not accepted. For 38, 3 abstentions and 73 against. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a final bill. The result? This proposal for a final bill was adopted by most votes, 77 votes in favour, 9 abstentions and 28 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77263	Now we move on to - Final proposal of the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings, second reading, P.Z. No. 830 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. A businessman. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Branko Bačić, Minister of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77264	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. The government of the Republic of Croatia proposes a final bill on the treatment of illegally built buildings. In the first reading almost a month ago, parliamentary representatives, committees and clubs made a number of remarks on the proposal for a law that was in the first reading. I must say that we in the Government have carefully examined all the remarks that have been highlighted in the debate itself and that we have been very clear on these remarks. A significant number of remarks that we have assessed to improve the text of the law itself and we have accepted and entered into the final draft of the law. What the introduction needs to say is that according to the information that we have, it is clearly not accurate but which will certainly be fully established through the law implementation that in Croatia there are around 150 thousand buildings that have been built without the necessary building act, that they are therefore illegal and that this is the particular problem that is likely to be before at this point, but at this point it should be solved. There are several possibilities for solving illegal construction in the Republic of Croatia. At this point, the government has determined that the bill which is now on the benches for you today is the most appropriate one to resolve the status of illegally built buildings in the Republic of Croatia. In that sense, I would like to say that this is not ordinary legalisation as it was in 1968 because through the provisions of the law it is defined over twenty conditions and criteria that prevent this general legalization. If these reasons that make it impossible for the general legalisation to be numbered, you will see that we really wanted to protect the space that we persistently talk about with the right to be the most valuable economic resource in the Republic and one of the advantages of the Republic of Croatia, and today, however many of these facilities are still, one of the most protected areas in Europe and the EU. So we decided to make a procedure through one bill to simplify the procedure of those objects, those buildings that were illegally built, clearly and which can be legalized at all. In the light of the bill's proposal, this final bill defines the deadline until which the building was to be legally built, is 21 June 2011, because, in the meantime, for the needs of the State Geodetic Administration, and for the needs of many other reasons, we have set out for a new aerophotogrimetric recording of the entire territory of Croatia, and these orthophoto maps will also serve us for other purposes. But certainly, most importantly, it will serve us as evidence of whether, at that time of day, an illegal building was actually built to the extent necessary for it to be legalized. In this way we practically included these in legalisation and those objects that were built against the previous law, namely on the previous draft law, and the previous bill planned possible legalisation by 30 November. We have also defined this bill as an obligation for the availability of orthophoto cards which will be exposed in the offices of the State Geodesy Administration where all interested parties will be able to make clear before they begin to apply for the legalisation of their facilities themselves, clearly with the help of authorised persons, to determine whether or not that object was built in the time that enables it to be legalised. We are also in addition to the criteria that prevent the legalisation of such an object relating to spatial criteria such as national parks, such as corridor infrastructures, such as specific purposes such as public or social purposes, such as nature parks, certain agricultural land, protected coastal areas of the sea etc., etc. and what reasons will make legalisation impossible. With this final proposal of the law, we have defined that it will not be possible to legalise an object that has more than two floors, unless that second floor represents a cover against the permitted urgency and height provided for by the relevant spatial plan covering that area in which an individual illegal object is built. Further, through this bill, we have defined the better and necessary documentation that is necessary in order to go into the law of such an object. We also accepted the suggestions given in the debate after the first reading, which is that the ratio of the funds provided by the fee for holding the facility in space has changed in a way that instead of initially planned 75% of the funds that were supposed to make the revenues of the state budget and 25% of the funds that were planned as income of the units of local self-government now changes the way that the compensation from the retention of the facility in space is now shared in a way that 50% of the total funds belongs to the unit of local self-government, and 50% of the funds is the income of the state budget. I think that the introduction is now enough because we have already explained in detail all those articles and all those provisions that have been laid down by law in the first reading, which have now not changed with the final draft of the law. Therefore, it is certainly not good and it is not very pleasant for anyone to pass a law legalizing the treatment of which citizens or legal persons build certain objects without respecting the legislative procedure that the laws of the Republic of Croatia define. However, between that fact and that there are at least 150 thousand objects on the ground, we have decided that we are going through this law to legalise those objects which will satisfy the criteria laid down in these laws and that, when we make a decision on the proposal of this law, it has gone too far with the government to go in this way to legalise the objects, by the fact that this legalisation will also take place in this law to allow the legalisation and legalisation of certain numbers of farms and buildings, the economic buildings on agricultural land whose legalisation is necessary in order to make their owners in the application process of European funds legalise their facilities in this way. It is clear that in the debate itself there were different solutions, from the solutions proposed by the Government in the Croatian Parliament, it was a solution that through the obligation to introduce plans for the recovery of individual areas where a large number of illegal objects were built, was one of the possible solutions. In the Government, however, we have determined that such a way is appropriate not to prevent units of local self-government from using their spatial-planned documentation, clearly within the frameworks of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, defining and conditions which will then clearly meet the criteria that such spatial-planned documents as these recovery plans could then accept. So here is the conclusion, the government suggests that such a bill largely sharpened objects built in the Republic of Croatia without building acts, and it is clear that those objects that cannot enter this legalisation project will remain illegal and their fate will be clearly resolved after the law has been implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77265	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Legislative Committee, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Justice? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77266	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate. So we've come to a second reading of the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings, and I have to admit in the beginning that this claim of yours is a good part of the remarks we had in our first reading influenced that yet this second reading of that law has somehow different I would say form. But from what you can read and from this second reading I'll go like this. First of all, in your explanation that you gave us, you listed the reasons why the law was passed. So now I'm not reading it, which is why I'm only going to have one piece of it because it's very interesting. So, the law should be passed so that where possible, according to some kind of oscillations of a technical professional nature, but of course, by looking at what I think might have been a stronger emphasis on the social part to make people who have done something not by their own fault but by making a mistake, and living there and living to make it possible for these people to try to get something that is illegally legalized. And another reason why I understood why this Law was made impossible for such and such illegal construction to be possible for a foreseeable future. Now, if we start from the assumption that these are the reasons, the basic reasons why this law is being passed I'll just say one part of that, read how he writes in his explanation, and that's because this current law that treated this illegal construction is what that law did. So when it's read that under the existing law it's a little slower, a little harder yet part of that illegal construction is legalized and it's in one percent that here it says 78% for buildings whose surface is no more than 400 square meters, or that I'm not repeating it now. Thus, even under that law, it could have been made legalized part of the illegal one. A little slower, but it was more effective for me than it seems to me that this new law that is ultimately and in the second reading might happen. Why it couldn't have been faster or why it couldn't have been better all the good writing, and that's why the efficiency of the process was better affected by the primary state of space-planned documentation that was not right during that period, and yet we have witnessed that in the Republic of Croatia there are few units of local self-government that have no spatial plans of their own. Therefore, the insolvency of property-legal relations, the need to act as competent authorities. I accept that this could have been the cause. But the most important cause for which I think it has nevertheless affected that not a greater number of illegal or illegally built objects has been legalized high amounts for municipal and water contribution. So when all this is somehow being read, it was somehow the money that was crucial not to legalize these objects anymore. Are we going to make amendments to this Act to make that argument, meaning that money is also a brake, and that it will not be done then, come to those reasons why the law is passed, but we will have one brake again, so we will not solve it as much as we could, and that there was no money. But there's another fact. Whatever the law it may be, whatever it is we bring it to me, it seems to me that it will not be operational and it will not be possible to implement it well because the law is passed not for things, but the law is passed for people, that people respect it. Well, here it is said in a very nice and very nice way that although the public has generally been defined for order and legality in construction when sanctioning illegal construction of citizens and the public are less determined in this. And that's the real reason why illegal construction is still going on, because here we are in respect of these laws less determined. Last time I spoke on behalf of the club, I said we had to change something. Because if in one other law we passed the Law on the Roads, it seems to me if we drive a little faster then these penalties have now become drastic. In this case, it has not been drastic in the construction of these penalties so far, and it has somehow been understood that if I do something illegal, it will come some time when it will start to freak out, when it will not be European and when we will have to make what it is illegal to not know which times we are legalizing. And that's why it seemed to me that it was good in that old law, that when it stood out that this legalization could be more acceptable and only for permanent housing buildings built in the building area according to the spatial plan. So, not beyond the spatial plan, in case they meet all the specific, security and technical correct characteristics. And that way maybe it could be legalized. This way, it seems to me that the ambition that the ministry had was going to make 150,000 as many as possible illegal objects or details in these facilities as the stairs that were steeped or the balcony that didn't need to be, it seems to me that this ambition to solve something like this in due course will not be possible. I repeat, the main problem of this Law is that because of an extremely large coverage of illegal construction, which can be legalised, it still sends one message that was not good at the end about the acceptance of the new wave of illegal construction, because future free builders can expect that once again at some annual interval some authority will have to adapt to them, and we will not adapt to the laws as we have brought them. So, I think it's good that part of the objection here is respected. But it seems to me that this is how the law is conceived, he doesn't want that group of people who expect this law to in some way legalize what they've done illegally isn't going to help them. It won't help, and we need to be aware of that, because I repeat what I said last time, we may be sending a false message. Here, now, with this law, we're going to solve everything that's been illegally and illegally done, it's not going to be possible to get rid of. So a good part of the people will be faced with the possibility that what has been illegally built unless these criteria are met that it will have to be brought down. And once we have to start thinking about it that way, because if Croatia only loves it because it is Croatia, and Croatia is loved and its laws are respected. So we need to start respecting her laws in order to sort of combat that illegal construction in the future. I'm afraid that this quickly passed law that has been corrected will not contribute to a more rapid and efficient resolution of the part that is possible. What we're going to do with those people who have that possibility, but they're not going to report that they want to legalize. They're just fine like this, and they're not gonna legalize it. They may have a chance to do it even in that cheaper version, they won't do it. The law did not predict what we do with such objects. We take them down now or what do we do with such objects? So this one social component is not sufficiently elaborated on me, and it seems to me that maybe you should take another look at how to make it more operational. After this, he will be complicated again, and I fear he will not contribute to solving the problem, but will further stop him in that solution, regardless of how it says here that it will be relatively quick and quality solved. So, on behalf of the SDP Club, we'd like to try, but I see how the application went for this previous law to go into third reading, so let's try to see if we can agree that in that third reading, it's more operational. And finally. The first point of today's agenda was if I remember the Law on the Impact Assessment of Regulations, so if I realized it was one law that in advance when we talk about the laws that we are making here, we observe what the effect of these regulations that we are making here, or the law. I think that, first of all, one inventory of those 150 grand, 120 grand, 100 grand, I don't know how much because nobody knows how many of these illegal constructions there are, that should have done one systematization, kind, quantity and type of such illegal constructions, and then do that if it's a family house for housing to be free, then what it's made nakaradically and what it's made for the market to be paid fatly to compensate for this lack of these people who really don't have money. And then we should have made these effects first available to all of us, so I believe the law might be better quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77267	Thank you. I'll just let you know. We still have three clubs and four individual discussions. Today we will end this law to the end. Now it's the HDZ Club. Dear representative Marina Matulović-Dropulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77268	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. We have a final proposal for a law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, and I will start by saying that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support that proposal. After the first reading of the law of this proposal, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a series of proposals made by various entities, as well as the Committee for the Spatial Planning of the Croatian Parliament, and a professional organisation. In fact, we all know a lot about illegal construction and we all know that the illegal construction in the Republic of Croatia has been present since the 1960s when the large migration of our citizens to larger cities was made to secure jobs. These people had to provide housing for themselves and their families, so they built houses on their own or in other people’s land along with larger industrial plants or industrial zones. Unfortunately, much of these facilities are not legalised today. At the end of the 90s and early 2000s, there is new illegal construction, but this time it is not out of need, but it is building houses and apartments on our coast, but along with every lake, skids, etc. Such construction was intensified in 2001 and 2002 by the adoption of amendments and the addition of laws which deleted deadlines for the development of spatial plans, but also allowed the integration of all illegal objects into the municipal infrastructure. And that's where the biggest problem came from. Because whoever built it illegally could have connected his illegal facility to a complete communal infrastructure. In 2004, in Croatia, only 113 municipalities and cities had built spatial plans and, of course, it was one big brake. In 1992, the law was passed to call him so conditionally on the legalisation of objects that were put out of force in 95 because it did not justify the purpose. In fact, very few citizens have legalized their facilities. Of course we were all wondering why that was. Well, one of the reasons was the war in Croatia, so normally it was difficult and simply people couldn't legalize those objects that were created before. 1.1.2008 was implemented by the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which also enabled the legalisation of buildings and which could legalise around 30,000 buildings today. But as I have already said in my first reading debate, only 8,000 452 objects, or citizens, have taken advantage of that possibility. This bill will allow legalisation of facilities built by 2106/11, subject to certain conditions clearly stated in this proposal. As I said, the promoter accepted a series of proposals such as additional criteria that must be met, mandatory site eyewitnesses, addition of the documentation needed to issue a solution on the state of play. A proposal by the Croatian Democratic Community Club was accepted to split the compensation collected from the legalisation of these facilities 50% to the state, 50% to local self-government units that will have additional costs to build municipal infrastructure. It is particularly important to say that not all will pay the same fee but that corrective coefficients and additional corrective coefficients are established depending on the type of objects, the social status of investors, the location where the facility was built and similar to what is taxed in the draft law. The government will adopt a regulation within 30 days to determine exactly how much compensation there will be for individual facilities. The HDZ Club believes that all investors who can be legalised as soon as possible should be constantly encouraged because without it there will be no possible sale of real estate, upgrade or upgrade of facilities that some need. We cannot close our eyes and say that it is not the main problem in the illegal construction yet unresolved property-legal relations and not the desire or inability to pay for the municipal and water contribution. Therefore, it will also be necessary to see with all units of local self-government that this municipal contribution is further reduced, especially where it is not apartments, cottages and the like, but where it is exclusively residential facilities. However, as only the ministry has already proposed, or the government has suggested that there will be a reduction of between 25% and 75% of course that it will refer to housing and that these housing facilities are still one necessary thing without which people simply cannot. And of course this difference, which is also made in this law between cottages, residential buildings, agricultural facilities that are necessary for further production, is certainly welcome. The main difference between this law that is in force today and this bill is that it will be possible to legalise and objects that are located outside the building area. However, this is a fact, but it must be known that it will not be legalised in certain areas, such as the economic zone, then the urban and catering zone, the catering-tourism zone, an object that has a different purpose, not an economic or catering-tourism zone. So it's not going to be possible to legalize a housing facility at these locations or anything else. It is also important to know and it is good that here it is nevertheless clear that the unit of local self-government is a party in a process that must give consent to such legalisation. Therefore, those who have worked on spatial plans, those who are under the Constitution, will now have the opportunity to finally say whether they are for those objects to be legalised or not. And it certainly needs to continue to insist on rehabilitation projects because large settlements that we have very much, such as Siroboja or similar, will simply not be legalised without such a recovery programme because it is still a communal infrastructure and major problems of access to individual facilities. So this unit of local self-government will play a key role and, of course, it can't be said then that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will make any decisions besides the local self-government units. The club, as I said, will accept this proposal, hoping to finally legalise more people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77269	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77270	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Minister, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Yes, I said before whatever we do, whatever we suggest, whatever every legal initiative from now on to time indefinite, the amen will go to the benefit of those who have in this country, and not those who do not. And it's a sacred principle and it just can't be fixed anymore. That's how it is with the internship, that's how it is with this law, that's how it's about conversion, privatisation, who's going to revise it, and the poor are going to normally pay everything in the future. Is the question of this legislative proposal fundamentally a legalization of illegal construction yes or no? I categorically claim that, it should be legalized. What is this law talking about? So on the 15th page, it means the issues that are regulated by this law, I will not quote everything, it is said, among other things, by law, that the proposal that on an illegally built building cannot be legaled more than two floors of which the second attic is built against a spatial plan, unless the decision of the representative body of the local self-government body determines a larger number of floors. Then, the area established by the spatial arrangement plan of units of local self-government within and outside the construction area, settlements in which in the case of illegal construction, etc. does not apply the provisions of this law. The legal procedure is defined, determines who initiates the legal process and the time limit by 31 December 2012, determines the payment of the municipal water contribution, etc., etc. Clearly, I am far more concerned with this law than I am with the internship of hotel companies. I mentioned earlier how many in Poreč alone have 3 hotel companies inherited or privatized in the 1990s apartments, 2 288. Take care of what you give for disposition to those who simply won what they will sell for tens of millions of euros the next day. But I said, what was just once done is no longer to be corrected today. But let me get back to that law. What are the reasons I see for legalization? Just breaking down by me is absolutely barbarism, building that, breaking no. Someone will say it's a socialist password, but what some have built simply today's collapse is quite ungrateful though, for example. What's going on under one Cavran, around the Long Cove, as it was building there, it's scandalous, I'd almost say boldly. But who can bring all this down and not cause a simple revolution, despite the fact that it did not illegally build a host population there? Finally, you can never completely correct that one historical injustice, there will always be something that cannot be brought down, so maybe it's best to legalize everything now. Yes, it is true, the question is whether this Law, on the other hand, will encourage even greater savagery on the coast, in Zagreb, which I know, in the interior of Croatia, someone will say, if they could legalize in two, or three years, let's build it illegally, probably some new government will come, some new team that will also legalize us. On the other hand, when I look at Istria, there on the west coast other than Vodnjan, the de facto is almost nothing illegal, on the eastern coast of Istria is a disaster. Why is that? Because this eastern coast has not been valorised, because from one Medulin to Opatija, come Lovrana there is a long Bay 1, 2 hotels, there is RABAC 3, 4 hotels and de facto at 100 km we have no more serious tourist facilities. Hotel facilities whatever anyone thinks protects the coast from devastation. But clearly we have today those who oppose any investment golf I don't know I don't play it, but I know that at the time of the general recession we also need investments. How tourism was built in Istria and probably so elsewhere in Croatia. Let's take one of the Rivieras. One Riviera built 15 or 20 hotels, along with these 15, 20 hotels have 10 camps and built 1406 apartments, bungalows, villas etc. The one who's going to invest in these rooms tomorrow is certainly not going to get far away from this pattern. Why wild construction was also allowed. I'm saying that one big problem is that the inspections were under the State's patronage, not local self-government. I'm sure there'd be far less trouble in the space. Secondly, it is certain that some money can be made from legalization. If we have 50,000 illegal buildings without a building permit, if these owners, the users pay all the utility and other fees, we can freely count 50 thousand times on a figure of 5 to 10 billion kuna. Clearly many will say we don't have money, they say we don't have, how they had it when they were working, okay, those people when they were working were in some companies, they were running them, they're retired today they don't have any money but if they didn't have money they wouldn't build. There's no other way. Let them bet on these properties, let them take the loans but those obligations must be paid and they must be even with those who have legally come to their property. The truth has this kind of thinking, a lot of people told me that, I built it 15 years ago, I stayed there for 15 years, I didn't pay for anything, so that investment paid off and let them crash. No, it won't ruin you, but you, sir, will pay that fee and thus legalize that facility. Thirdly, it can be done with that money if it is collected for sure not to collect 5 let alone 10 billion kunas, maybe 500 kunas will be collected for sure, can be arranged in these ghettos, or I don't know how to express myself to single enclaves, part of the water, part of this waste, etc., even though I know the fact that local self-government gave these people home numbers, that it allowed them to connect to the water, the HEP gave them electricity, but I'm also sure that no mayor, the mayor told people to go build without permission, it certainly didn't happen. Those who are legalists in this country have waited or collapsed, and these others are now seen through their fingers but what we're going to do is just like that. It would also be interesting to see how many ministers, how many of us MPs, how many judges, teachers, etc., do not have some of the lawlessly raised objects. If someone without permission raised a barn and held five or ten heroes there then drop down, give you every honor to build another building or I'll build you just to work but it would be nice to see who owns it. Article 5 may be crucial but I'm not going to quote it now, I'm not going to quote it now, but yes, my approach would be what to cover with spatial plans that should always be legalized. I know that this criterion of this illegal construction is almost unsatisfactory and understandable that this law must go in the direction it goes. I'm sure it wasn't built without permission, it's not fair either to legalize someone, but what we're not Switzerland, we're not Sweden who certainly did not have a problem with wild or illegal construction until the arrival of the Balkans. But what it says is also that one Sweden, that one Switzerland, when it comes to this legislation, has far more liberal legislation than Croatia, has far more flexible legislation. There is probably not a single country in Europe or in the European Union that we strive for as much as Croatia does. There's really nothing to do, and then it makes sense to expect someone to hold on to something built without a building permit. So slow an administration like we had doesn't matter if it's 80, 90, or in this period after 2000, it just doesn't matter if nobody does either. And therefore, the time has come for people to be allowed to work, to have, to spend, we must also be aware that without investment we cannot help ourselves and also that people should not be destroyed in this moment because as far as they are responsible for having been illegally built, we are so "all of us" co-responsible that they are allowed at some point or not allowed to build in accordance with positive regulations. Fifth, why there's so much illegal construction. Because, I don't know what it's like elsewhere, in Istria it's about that for one 200 square-square house you have to get about a municipal fee, a building permit, and so give at least 200 thousand kuna, at least 200 thousand kuna, in one Poreč there may be 300. Turns out it means building like that costs you about as much as it costs you paperwork. I agree not all the lawless builders are the most such builder perhaps the poor one, but these others normally would have the poor man legalized immediately. But the same truth is some have received social housing or received loans from those self-government or as it is called working organizations or received apartments according to that article in 18. or 16. Shushk’s rules, and some simply had to make an effort to find a roof over their heads for themselves and for their children. So, we're going to have these illegal 150 thousand objects. The municipality of Marchana, for example. I'm familiar with the situation there. There's about 3,000 of these objects. They're mostly bungalows or I don't know what to call them. Someone would say it should be completely removed, torn down, removed, but that didn't work out so far, so it won't go from now on. If we don't know those three thousand times ten or fifteen thousand it's some envious money something can be made with. But it's not just about money, it's really people who don't need to be torn down. If it's possible to legalize and fit into spatial plans somehow, and I don't see why this law that tangs either directly or indirectly 150 thousand families don't support it. Maybe the promoter will have some political benefits doesn't matter, it's important that people don't do harm.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77271	Thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of the HNS Club, as far as clubs are concerned, we still have the individual HSU, the distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević continues where he left off, I guess. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77272	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's thanks to your skipped today's divided agenda and my ignorance, I have a chance to pick up where I was standing. I know you could pick up where I left off, but I want to do it again on behalf of the HNS and HSU club that we also supported in our first reading the need to pass a law like this that solves this area because... it's a serious and complex problem in our space. The fact that, according to the current laws, 30% at the estimate of 30% of illegally built buildings can be legalized but not legalized. Obviously there's some reason and obviously there's a reason why it didn't come. Unfortunately, in this bill and second reading, we don't even have that analysis when we first read it. Secondly, what I want to stress especially when I'm talking about this matter, which is also the capital sustainability of this law and the time dimension. But before that, I must thank the promoter for having observed a series of remarks, however purely because of the extent to which the remarks are not respected, here are the comments on one page, which have been observed, but on page 12 of the non-respected observations. Therefore, so much for the willingness and co-operation of respecting the objections made by both the professional public and through the debate at first reading. When we talk about capital sustainability whether our citizens have the strength at the moment, whether capital is strong enough because we have not provided any instrument other than a discount on that social criterion to simply enter this process. The time dimension of 31.12.2012. if it's 150 buildings, and it certainly isn't because we don't have an analysis and I think we should have it and we should have it, it's 16 months. In other words, 9,000 375 facilities should be legalized monthly. If we bring that down to half that's 4000 600 if we just include objects that are in the function of agricultural production for which the estimate is 50,000, that's three thousand 125. Do we have administrative and financial capacity to do one such job in those numbers and at that time? And there's one of our key remarks in the first reading and now in the second reading in front of the HNS and HSU clubs, and that's that time scale. We believe that this 31.12. is not a deadline that allows us to complete a job that needs to be completed. And we don't see any reason to continue to insist on that date on 31.12.200 unless the desire to make this bill shows good will and to prove to some futures that they're not capable of doing something that is legal. The second principled remark I started at that earlier point, which is the position of the local self-government unit. Local self-government units practically carry the burden of the whole job. They must record illegally built buildings, they must ensure changes in spatial plans, they are obliged to ensure safety and hygiene of the use of newly legalized buildings and settlements, meaning infrastructure. So they need to bring in financial programs. However, in a total cake that is no longer 25-75, 25 units of local administration, and 75 states are now 50-50, with units of local self-government having to invest in setting up this space while the Government of the Republic of Croatia is only one-third. So about 25% or 24% is the revenue of the state budget and with this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia bought a good lottery ticket with one great increase. And it would be logical that complete funds and normal and responsible that complete funds obtained by legalising illegally built objects to go exclusively from the position of the Government from the units of local self-government to go exclusively to ensuring security and hygiene in the use of newly legalised buildings and settlements. Third, agriculture. In fact, almost the same way are treated economic farming facilities as family houses and cottages. Almost the same way. In view of agricultural production, given the need, we stress and underline the need in the short time of legalisation of facilities in the function of agricultural production. For example, the neighbouring Republic of Slovenia did it in six months. Why it's necessary it's known. EU funds, pre-accession funds and all this. And the fact is that we also have a register of agricultural holdings, that we have a unique register of domestic animals, that we have an ARCOD system, means a review of agricultural particles subculture and a unique register of holdings, or farms. The fact is that this farm register is an extremely good tool for simplifying legalisation because it provides information about each individual farm that is registered and that farm register is one basis that gives a dimension, gives position, gives gauges, basics for obtaining or locational and even building permits. And given this tool, there is no reason for the simplified procedure to go into legalisation of objects that are in the function of agricultural production because we have a tool, it exists in the records, is that it is not... in the ministry, it's that in some other ministries, but I believe the ministries work together. [[You don't understand.]] So it's just a matter of decision. If we have 50,000 competitive farms, if investment per farm is about 10 thousand euros, respecting the system of ground, air, water, the nitrate directive that is our obligation, this is about the possibility of investing in a construction operation or a job for a construction operation and industry of around 500 million euros. In addition to the effects in training agricultural economies in the use of both pre-accession and soon and structural funds. Therefore, there is no reason for this area to be given the possibility of simplification under this legislative proposal, by the more direct benefit. He's a direct asset. Because this legalization itself, the investment of 10,000 euros from pre-accession funds, is also known, we have recently said, and this information is known, that we still used only 9.5%, that we are from 2007. 20m euros lost because of that M+3 because we didn't report the projects in time. Therefore, we have funds in pre-accession funds with which we can launch and train these agricultural entities. It doesn't matter if it's 50 now or if it's 25 or it's 10, either way, the other and the third is a serious project. It does not matter if it is now 500m euros or 100m euros or 50m euros, but it is necessary and necessary under this legislative proposal, we could definitely use this information system that exists, which is recorded, to simplify it, and in particular by accepting the fact that we have particularly small agricultural producers completely exhausted with one under quotes of a successful agricultural policy and that simply these people do not have money. Therefore, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party, we call on the proposings to accept the proposal that we have jointly referred to the SDP club and the HNS-HSU club that, with this legislative proposal, we are also going to go into third reading, with this legislative proposal in addition to all these good will, intentions, preparedness, co-operation, constructiveness in the adoption of a legislative proposal that will enable the effectiveness of law enforcement, and especially given the need and the possibility to create, in relatively short time, the conditions for legalising facilities that are in the function of agricultural production, accepting the potentials that exist and the resources that exist, rather than taking advantage of them. We call on the Proposer to accept our proposal to go into third reading and in this sense the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party by respecting these proposals, our proposals and suggestions from other clubs and that part of the proposal that did not enter this second, into this text of the law in the second reading, and I repeat, on one page, the text of the law is what entered, and on page 12, what did not enter, to accept it. And in this variant, the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retirement are prepared and actively participate as we have so far in the adoption of a viable and sustainable legislative proposal, and in this variant we will be prepared if our proposal is not accepted in that case we are not prepared to take responsibility for the ineffectiveness of the legislative proposal, which is practically overnight, in relatively short time, which can be good if our intentions are noble. If they're not noble intentions, it's harmful anyway. And again, 31.12. It is certainly not a deadline that enables the effective application of this law in that dimension to the extent that there is a need in space, but rather something that is certainly not the creation of a basis for adopting a legal proposal that would benefit citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77273	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear representative Marina Matulović Dropulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77274	Thank you very much. So here's very short, it's tied to agricultural facilities. So far it has also taken a lot more documentation than it needs right now. It now requires significantly less documentation and can no longer be reduced than is proposed in this law. Therefore, your proposal is simply impossible. It has a register and, of course, it's very simple now and legalize individual objects, but that man who wants legalization must appear on his own. You can't ex-legate to legalize all the objects that exist there. There's no other option than that. And as for those 20% that go into the state budget because 50% of the local self-government unit is 50%, and actually 30% is one-third. That's right, or 33% that goes for all these catastres and all that. There will be great costs in the administration itself related to those additional costs that people will need to pay additionally, perhaps some and per contract to hire, and of course it does not go into the state budget just so that something is coming in but really needs for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77275	Thank you. And we're moving on to an individual debate. The first in line is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Then it's my guest of honor, Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77276	Thank you, Vice President. Well, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to say that, in this particular case, the Proposer, in this particular case, has observed a very large part of the objections to the law that was made during the first reading. However, regardless of the fact, it is still a professional and interested public quite comprehensible to this bill. Regardless of what it is, this document is significantly improved in relation to first reading I still have some doubts about this bill and one of the first concerns relating to this bill is that it still allows legalisation of those objects that are not within the framework of the construction area. The fact is that the decision on whether it will be possible to legalise it as I understand it is transferring to local self-government units to decide whether or not it will make it possible. However, that seems rather dangerous to me. The other thing that bothers me about this bill is whether by implementing this bill, or by implementing this bill, we will ensure the necessary legal equality between the people who followed the laws, that is, they have built in accordance with the existing law of those people who did not comply with the law and who, because of the non-compliance of the law, have been removed by an object, and yet a considerable number should be said. And those, meaning lawless builders or builders who did not comply with the law and who will be allowed to legalise these lawlessly built objects. The fact is that this legal balance is trying to result in this fee or financial punishment for these illegal builders. A large part of how this will be regulated has been left to the government's regulation, which the government is obliged to bring within a fairly short period. However, I am not sure that it will be enough for this law to act in addition to sanctioning and preventive, and I think that preventive action in terms of future availability and space management is extremely important so that we will never again have several thousand illegally built objects in a decade. We hope then that it will not be necessary to re-establish a law that will allow legalisation of the situation found because it is a pretty bad message to all those citizens of Croatia who respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia. I am deeply convinced that it is possible to do such a thing, given that it is not realistic to expect that it is possible at all to remove such a number of illegally built objects regardless of whether it is some kind of reconstruction, an upgrade of a floor or a completely unfair building. If so, these penalties are not so high and so drastic that they act preventively because we need to know that very often effective repression is the best prevention for future action. In defence of the law, the State Secretary spoke of the maximum amount of that financial penalty or legalisation fee as necessary in order to, meaning that an object means legal status and this illegal status, too, means that it is authorised or legalised. But it's also supposed to be at the height of some 2,000 kunas in the most extreme variants. That is quite a large amount, however, the question arises as to what will happen if and after such a bill is passed, that is, if such a law is passed, there is still a very large number of lawless builders or builders who will not take advantage of this possibility and will not go into legalisation of their facilities. I'm afraid the number of such individuals could be extremely large. What makes me think that? Because of this criminality by saying the sanctions that will be imposed by persons who will not mean adhering to the legalisation process of their facilities is to return in principle to the state that is existing, or inspection solutions and removal. However, if such people and there is a very high possibility that such people will continue to be extremely large, make them 50,000 highly doubtful that all these facilities will be possible and remove them, i.e. to bring down a measure that is currently provided for by the current Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. And at the very session of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, I mentioned that I believe that the state has an extremely strong instrument in its hands, and that is the instrument of execution over such objects. And I think maybe the proposer could have predicted and such a measure in the case means that lawless builders don't decide in this case to legalize their facilities. In this case, I'm not sure that this law is really going to be very effective, and I don't think it's a good thing that we're passing laws that aren't going to be highly enforceable. I would like to believe that such a text of law will be sufficient to in some way motivate lawless builders to go into legalization of their objects. But I still think that the sanctions part is not present enough and not hard enough to actually realize it. In this regard, I think it is absolutely justified that the SDP Club's proposal is a representative, and has joined this request and HNS's Club of Representatives to conduct a third reading on this extremely important law. Because the fact is, we are all aware of this, the current situation is long-term and short-term unsustainable because it creates a huge legal inequality between people who built according to the law and those who did not build according to the law, but also those who did not build according to the law, and I think it is the obligation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to try to ensure as much as possible that some kind of legal balance as possible because it also ensures equality before the laws and the Constitution of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77277	Thank you. We have one replica. Honorable representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77278	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Holly, you reiterated the importance of including the profession. Why is the involvement of the relevant profession problematic in this law? So here's an example, according to Article 8. The law says that the application for legislation should be accompanied by several types of documents, including proof of compliance with the mechanical resistance and stability requirements developed by an authorised construction engineer and a series of other evidences. The law therefore foresees that only in terms of mechanical resistance and stability, for the purpose of verifying such an object. There's no such thing in the legal proposal. I'm sorry, it's not there. Other technical requirements turn out to be irrelevant. Turns out it doesn't matter the installation, it turns out it doesn't matter the equipment that's installed, the gas equipment, the electrical equipment and everything else. Well, here, I'm reading the bill. Well, I don't know the old one or the new one. Here he is in front of me. In all of this is the question and plus the message of the law itself is, the technical documentation required for legalization is much, much smaller, much cheaper. After all, it may also be a message, or motive for further illegal construction, because there will always be some need a colleague said in 10, 20 years to relegate. We know that illegal construction can't be stopped, but it doesn't need to be stimulated by laws like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77279	Thank you. I must say, you're replicating something that my colleague didn't say. But, well, it's common here now. So it's up to the honourable representative Boris Matkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77280	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. Here, given the times and so far, I'll try to be as brief as possible. First of all, I would like to say that I am personally satisfied with all these changes that occurred between the first and second readings, and I am particularly pleased that in the units of local self-government,... The ratio is 50%:50%. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So far it's 25:25%. Furthermore, what I personally keep in all of this encouraging and positive is that it will encourage and should be encouraged and we know what is important in this, legalization and land-booking, and they are a prerequisite for development. That is the case, those units of local self-government that have so far implemented and whose budgets have grown and they have no problems because they have reduced the number of property-legal disputes. Investments are much faster than they are in other environments and simpler. I also believe that without this legalisation, therefore, both the collection of land books and the OIB system we are working on will not work, nor will there be any tax policy or reform in this sense, but there are no social transfers. Someone mentioned today to the social and social issues that should be addressed. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77281	Thank you. And as the last in an individual debate, a distinguished representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77282	Here, I want to cut it short, too. So, as we heard earlier this morning, except for the historical, sociological and economic reasons of the 1960s that led to the illegal construction of a new wave occurred in 2001 when a law was passed that allowed it, therefore, raised from the law the date of the adoption of spatial plans of cities and municipalities which made it important to create a liberal situation on the ground. And secondly, the Law on the municipal economy that allowed illegal infrastructure facilities to join, which also enabled a new wave of wild construction. So in early 2000, it happened. The time has finally come to draw the line and I hope that we draw the line today and that this law will allow it never to happen again. I also believe that within these deadlines prescribed here, Madam Secretary of State within 30 days, or within 60 days, all those who are obliged to adopt regulations and regulations that this will actually happen, that this law will really be implemented and applied so that there will finally be no more unlawful construction. Of course, I am pleased that between the first and second readings this fee ratio has changed in favour of the unit of local administration and self-government and that this fee must be used for purposely, which is very important for improving infrastructure etc. I also believe that the units of local administration and self-government will bring the register by the end of 2011 and that, of course, they will respect what Mrs. Dropulić said that there is no way that everyone can legalise themselves or be found by the unit of local administration and self-government if they do not register themselves. I believe that's gonna happen. However, it has been possible to legalise so far. There were 30,000 objects that were able to legalise themselves in accordance with applicable regulations, but because of the price of municipal contribution and water contribution, they did not legalize because people had no money. This law provides for a meal payment, and I believe that this is one of the important reasons why this time this law will be a little bit better implemented. In that sense, I want to say that I support this law and I hope that it will really come to life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77283	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want a final review? Yeah. Dear Nika Sugarevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77284	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I would really like to refer in short lines to today's debate on the Final Proposal for a Law on dealing with illegal buildings. What I would like to say, and I believe that the majority of you here, although few present, but I believe that you think as much as the promoter of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the first reading was extremely constructive, that we have heard all the suggestions and remarks of both the club representatives and the expert committees and all the individual motionaries during the debate. And you've all said that we've accepted very well the remarks. So, all that we thought, and we worked together to really make the law as good as possible, the more constructive and the goal I think is achieved, and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can be satisfied with the bill, that is, with the final bill of law that is here in this High Croatian Assembly. What's important is to say, and in terms of a few of the exhibitions that are being said here today, I would really look back and respond in short lines. Mr. Cain is in one part of his, I will not, of course, comment on everything because I think that part of it is already responsible in the introduction by Minister Bačić, in any case I would like to say that everyone, that this final proposal is very social, that we have been taking care primarily of those persons living in buildings up to 400 square meters, means family houses, people who built properties for these or those reasons, but these properties are their only form of life and existence in such buildings and the ministry never before, even though they had legal powers to remove such buildings. So, it has been very much about the social aspect now, and this final bill primarily takes care of such categories, and this is detailed in Article 17 of this Law, and the corresponding regulation, which will be very nearly as you yourself were informed on the parent board yesterday, will be accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would also like to say that this bill will make all those who wish, and it will have to be the reason for which I will have to say something later will be leveled in a legal sense with all those who have legally obtained building permits in accordance with the applicable Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. What is a supplement, and what you yourself have said, Mrs. Holly, is compensation. Of course, this fee will not be uniform for all areas of the Republic of Croatia, and we have taken care of it because social categories are extremely important to us, as well as space as such. Why? Because most of the illegally built buildings in the PDO area are meant to be protected by the coastal belt for the attractiveness of the space simply. Well, of course they'll be there, and according to what we explained on the parent board yesterday, according to the Law on the Communist Economy, that this will be taken into account. So, the more attractive the area is, of course, the bigger the fee. And those who did not, and could, therefore, for all those who were in the areas of the settlement that were planned with the existing spatial-planned documents, all of them would have to pay that fee to enter the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. If no one can force them to do so, but their property will not be in the legal system, they will be in a very awkward situation in terms of further implementation of the legislative regulation, and the primary Law on spatial planning and construction, so they will be in danger of removing their buildings. Therefore, everyone is motivated by this proposal, namely the final draft of the law and the deadline that we have given to submit their demands and to legalise their illegal structures. In Article 17, as well as the corresponding regulation, we have certainly taken care of agricultural buildings, believing that it is almost 100%, we cannot say 100%, but almost 100% of such buildings illegally in the Republic of Croatia and how we have explained such buildings in the first reading at all will not be able to manage and manage them at all, or not run for pre-accession funds now, and later on, cohesion funds. So, the fact is that we've taken great care of them, too, and those two categories are the basis for us in that social sense. All other categories will have higher fees, so they will pay bigger fees, but of course we will take care of the accommodation of such buildings, and I repeat again as the Law on the Communist Economy defines meaning certain units of local self-government planned 3 to 5 zones as well as the law requires. So much for that part. What is important is to say that you still asked, and what is questionable by what is the building that will legalise itself outside the construction area of the settlement? So if you've all been reading article 5 of this law well, you've seen that these are extremely strict corrective conditions and that almost nothing in this area can be legalized. So, all those restrictions that were defined by specific laws were introduced into this law are a daunting circumstance if such a possibility arises to build the legalization of such buildings we have made clear on what conditions. Therefore, all buildings located in the area which, in relation to the applicable spatial-planning documentation, have deviated by one or two floors, if the second floor of the attic is allowed in accordance with this law to enter the legal system. Of course, in addition to all those provisions that are for the local self-government unit to agree, to agree on a direct neighbour and with all the specific conditions that we have very strictly defined, which are defined what should be attached to the documentation defined in Article 8. So it won't just be so easy to legalise such buildings, but we've made it possible to legalize and we think this final proposal is motivated, but it also takes care of the data of space and there will be no devastation. These buildings have already been in the system, i.e. in the Republic of Croatia for the last 30-ac, 20 and slightly more years lately, such construction is almost gone because the spatial arrangement system is now functioning. What is important is to say, therefore, this law allows it, but at the same time does not allow the devastation of space, and all those criminal provisions that are defined and the applicable Law on Spatial Planning and Construction in terms of criminal provisions are also sufficient evidence that all those who should legalise their buildings will later be in one uncertain situation. And in the end, I would say that the SDP and HSU and HNS Club's proposal that you propose a third reading is not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77285	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. So today we've done seven very important laws. Tomorrow morning we will continue at 9am, we will work again without a break with item 10, and this is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on data collection by insurance companies on contributions to compulsory pension insurance, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. Number 860. I wish you all good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-12-0.u77286	We're moving on to the final bill on dealing with illegally built buildings. That was a second reading, P.Z. No. 830. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. First, we will vote on the proposal for the conclusion of SDP and HNS representatives' clubs, the HSU, which reads: The final proposal for a law on dealing with illegally built P.Z. buildings. 830 will be held for the third reading. During the debate, the proposing representative did not accept this proposal to go to third reading. Let us please engage and vote on a proposal to go into third reading that the government does not accept. The result? The proposal was not accepted, 42 votes for, 2 abstentions and 73 against. I am voting on the final draft law on the treatment of illegally built buildings. Let's please get involved and vote on the bill, the final draft of the law. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 82 votes in favour, 8 abstentions and 23 against. Good morning, gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue with the session and with the announced item of the agenda - Final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on data collection by insurance companies on contributions to compulsory pension insurance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 860 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr. Kresimir Rozman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
