ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79869	Dear Mr President, I believe that, as Parliament's president, before further notice, the beginning of this session, should have been told to the Croatian public until the meeting of the Parliament, which points of the agenda will be on the agenda and whether there is a parliamentary majority here in the House that can pass certain laws. If there is no quorum in the work of the Parliament, then this is no longer a Parliament, but another word I would not like to offend this House of Commons, but I do not think we should be doing a circus and a traveling circus. So I would ask you, as President of the Parliament, to inform the parliamentary deputies about what the representatives of the opposition who are not presently in the Assembly have agreed and also to respond to the points of the agenda that will be on the agenda until the end of the session of this Parliament and whether this Assembly can function normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79870	I am not obliged to explain anything by the Rules of Procedure what you have asked but you can ask me for something that I do not have to explain because the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, for the Croatian Parliament to be sitting, has already been informed for more than a month and the agenda points have been established for discussion in the Croatian Parliament. When it disbands, we'll see. Whether there is a quorum we will see at the vote and as far as the debate is concerned, five MPs can also be discussed in front of the Rules of Procedure. So there's no reason for me to answer any of this question especially if I don't have an answer, or if I don't have an answer, either, and how you asked me to, then I'll say it like I said. So, we're discussing according to the established agenda, we're discussing for now until the 21st of this month, which is the time this session is scheduled to be extended, it's all within the Rules of Procedure, Law and Constitution, so we're going to see if we're going to extend the session to the 28th Parliament, whether the 28th Assembly will disband, according to some of the knowledge that might be, but I'm not going to prejudge anything, and I don't really have to, because for such matters, I don't have to have an answer, but I have to work on my rules of procedure. Well, I'm working on the Rules of Procedure, so we'll continue with the agenda I've already started, and I apologize to Secretary of State Mikolčić, please welcome Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79871	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The adoption of the current law on state support for agriculture and rural development in the middle of last year launched a reform of the system of support for agriculture and rural development to bring Croatia in line with the European Union's support system. The adoption of this Law also met one of the very important informal criteria for the closure of the 11th negotiating chapter, which is agriculture and rural development. Amendments to the laws to be proposed are the result of the negotiations in agriculture which ended in April of this year, as well as the fact that the date of entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia was established in 2013. The most important results of the negotiations in Chapter 11 refer to the financial support package for agriculture that will be available to Croatia after entering the European Union. Direct payments set an annual limit of support of EUR d 373 million, also granted to the Republic of Croatia an additional financial envelope for mined agricultural land amounting to EUR 9.6 million, amounting to EUR 382.6 million of total direct payments support. With regard to the financial envelope for rural development, Croatia has been granted an exceptional amount that will already be available in full since 2014 while Croatia will have the funds of the IPARD pre-accession fund available for 2013 or half 2013. It is 333m euros in EU funds, since the second year of membership to which more than 20 to 25% should be added, and this depends on measures also on the areas of the Republic of Croatia from the national budget as mandatory co-financing of measures and projects related to rural development. It is an extremely large support fund that will be almost double the average amount currently available to farmers in other European countries. If we compare ourselves with other EU countries, then we are in terms of direct payments, which means the amount of our direct payments envelope in 6th place is related to the engagement of the agricultural area or agricultural land that is in production. In rural development, this envelope is the order of size 3, and in total Croatia is in 2nd place or only Malta is ahead of us and I believe that we have the right to be satisfied about such results of negotiations. However, I would like to stress that such amounts of support will be granted provided that Croatia starts to apply a system of support similar to that applied by the EU before joining the EU. It is therefore extremely important to implement the continuation of these reforms on the basis of the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on State support in agriculture and rural development. In order to allow for the continued implementation of the agricultural support system as the last year of application of the national support system, certain amendments were also required in law. These relate primarily to the definition of sectoral envelopes and ceilings of direct payments for 2012, as well as sectoral envelopes for rural development measures in 2011 and 2012 financed exclusively from the state budget. It was also important to define all types of rural development measures, so for 2012 and 2013, which will be financed by own resources until EU entry. It is important to further say that Croatia as the only new member state will have the possibility that its available ceiling for direct payments will be financed up to 100% of the funding from the national budget and since the first year of membership. In other words, our farmers will be allowed in the first year of membership to receive the full amount of the financial envelope for direct payments, and this will allow for the possibility of transferring up to 20% of the value of the financial envelope for rural development to support direct payments, Croatia will already have a very favourable ratio of total co-financing of agricultural support with the share of EU funds being 60% and the share of national funds 40. It's ultimately a huge opportunity to take advantage of. It is therefore necessary to provide for all necessary preconditions, in particular a harmonised legislative framework to allow for the best use of the issuing financial envelope since the first year of EU membership. And let me now, as soon as possible, make the most of the most concrete changes we propose in this law, which is an increase in the total envelope for direct payments for 2012 by 4.8% compared to 2011 with a ceiling of 2.52 billion kuna or 93.4% of the amount of the financial envelope for the first year of EU membership and 2013 respectively. Next, a gradual increase in the maximum unit amounts for suckler, sheep and goats, for which support is in place in accordance with the applicable common agricultural policy, but within the framework of the already defined amounts of sectoral envelopes that we have under current law. This increase is possible given the level of such support allowed in the EU. Also, as of this year, we are proposing to reduce the minimum number of throats in dairy cows from 5 to 1 which is consistent with the minimum number also in the suckler cow system. In other words, each bovine throat will be enabled to receive support, thus allowing smaller producers in the dairy sector to exercise their right to support. The economic recovery measures have increased the threshold for direct payments and for certain rural development measures in the previous year above which the EAG should be in the income tax system from 24 000 to 48 thousand kuna. This is an important measure to assist a small OPG that is in line with the proposal to increase the threshold for entry into the tax system to an additional value from 185 thousand to 170 thousand kuna. In addition to establishing financial envelopes for rural development measures in 2011 and 2012, the law also defines all rural development measures to be financed from the national budget until the entry into the EU. As part of the rural development measures, support measures for small CAPs are foreseen to extend the application of income support to agricultural economies as well as in 2012. In particular, small farmers are not yet at the disposal of a European measure to support only supply economies and in order to mitigate the difficulties of some 16 thousand PAGs that were users of this measure in the previous year, as a transitional measure, the application of income support measures has been extended for another year. A significant change also concerns the postponement of the time limits for units of local and regional self-government to which, without the approval of the Ministry of Agriculture, they may grant support for measures in agriculture and rural development by the end of September of the following year. Previously, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will set out measures and guidelines for implementing the measures and resources of units of local and regional self-government based on which units will apply for approval of all measures, starting with the rules applicable in this area as well as in the EU. All of the above-mentioned results of the negotiations having an impact on the law in question have been taken into account when drawing up an amendment and supplementing this law, starting on 1 July 2013 as a confirmed date for Croatia's entry into the EU. Further harmonisation also required no-technically to regulate certain provisions of the law and to install additional technical provisions for clearer interpretation and simpler and more successful implementation of the system of support for agriculture and rural development in the period until the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia. I expect that after the debate, the proposed amendments will be adopted to allow for the continuation of the reforms launched in this area and for the better preparation of our farmers for recent membership in the European Union. As regards the amendments tabled here, the amendments to the Legislative Committee may be immediately shown, six of them. They're mostly nomotechnical, and I can tell you that we're fully accepting them. And as for the amendment of the Association of Representatives of the HSS, of the three proposed amendments, we accept the third amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79872	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79873	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow MPs, State Secretary. At the very beginning of this debate on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, I will try to remind us of the debate we had when we passed the current Law on State Support in Agriculture and Rural Development. The debate on the current law adopted by the Croatian Parliament in mid-2010 highlighted that agricultural support policy is one of the most important topics of the Croatian Parliament during 2010 as it is a reform law that meets one of the most demanding criteria in the area of agriculture and rural development. It is also stressed that the final results of meeting this criterion will be favourable for the Republic of Croatia and Croatian farmers, given the fact that a market of around 500 million inhabitants is fully opened, and that respecting the preliminary, then the preliminary financial envelopes offer significantly more substantial financial resources in the time ahead. Of course, it has also been concluded that we must welcome this opportunity ready, which requires timely and quality preparation, both our farmers and the state administration, and in the context of the overall reforms of Croatian agricultural policy, it is essential to take this last and most sensitive step, so to end the reform of the national system of support for agriculture and rural development and thus make it compatible and acceptable to that in the countries of the European Union. Special attention has been given to measures of rural development and the need for our farmers to understand in a proper and well-intentioned way the basic direction of change that awaits us by entering the European Union, i.e. as a strong increase in the share of rural development measures in total support, to be welcomed by the ready and maximum use of it because it is precisely the area of rural development that represents the key to a successful transition from the current agricultural support model to the future model, i.e. the future system that we will have in the European Union. Finally, we also talked about how the reform proposed by the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development is of high quality, timely and political responsibility and that it is characterised by a clear vision and direction of national agricultural policy towards truly important and sensitive sectors during the transitional period, the long-term direction of the agricultural support policy and the retention of the elements of the phasing-out for the most sensitive area, i.e. for the area of direct payments. Therefore, by respecting everything previously said as well as the belief that the reform of the then applicable system of agricultural support was necessary, not only for the reason of our recent full membership in the European Union but primarily for building solid foundations for the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture in the future, the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives then supported this reform law, i.e. the reforms proposed by this law, which we will naturally do when it comes to these amendments and the additions that are ahead of us. In the follow-up to this debate, I will try briefly to refer to the current Law on State support for agriculture and rural development and its most significant provisions which will remain the characteristic of the law after the proposed amendments and additions have been adopted. Therefore, the applicable law further increases the share of production-free payments and the reduction of the share of production-related payments, which is all a part of the gradual full freedom of farmers when it comes to their decision on what and how much to produce, thus the element of their full market orientation. The law distinguishes direct payments and rural development measures which will apply until the time of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union from those which will apply after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. For the period until accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union or more precisely for 2011, a financial envelope has been established for direct payments, which, in accordance with the law, includes basic payments per agricultural area, but in much smaller scale and productively linked payments relating only to several of the most sensitive sectors in plant production, i.e. sugar tail, olive oil and tobacco, and livestock, milk, suckler cows, tow cattle, pigs and sheep and goats. Application of the European regional model of single direct payments The SPS of the model law provides for 2012 which specifically means that from this point on direct payments will no longer be related to production, except for two sectors, namely the dairy cow sector and the sheep and goats sector. Also for several particularly sensitive sectors such as sugar tails, olive oil, tobacco, dairy cows and fertilising feeds, for which no support is provided for during the three-year transitional period is provided for State aid to be financed from national funds in accordance with European Union regulations. The law also provides for funding from national reserves which will be an integral part of the national envelope in 2012 and are foreseen for the award of additional rights to users in so-called sensitive sectors. In this case, it is about milk, tongs of cattle, sheep and goats and tobacco because of the transition to a single payment programme and possible new users or farmers. Finally, as with direct payments, the bill regulates rural development measures that will apply until the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, but also a whole package of measures that I have already mentioned will be applied after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union and which are very or better said very financially. Given the fact that the applicable law is based on the assumption that the Republic of Croatia will become a full member of the European Union by 2012, and that accession negotiations have not been completed at the time of its adoption. It was not possible at this point, of course, to establish a total ceiling for direct payments and a sectoral envelope for 2012 which is certainly necessary at this time, because if we do not adopt these amendments and amendments to the law and do not determine the sectoral envelope for 2012 we will practically have no legal or formal legal basis for paying support to farmers and that is one of the fundamental and fundamental reasons why we are actually passing this law. We can still say about this law when we are generally talking about it being a law that represents a final alignment with the regulations of the European Union, because practically this model that will start to apply in 2012 for support in agriculture will be fully compatible and practically Croatia will apply this model even when it becomes a full member of the European Union. So the models will be completely identical. In view of the overall results achieved, we can conclude that the negotiating process has indeed been extremely successful, if we take into account the amount of financial envelopes, and the fact that we will be the only new member who will have the possibility to co-finance the ceiling available for direct payments from the national budget to the 100% amount already in the first year of membership. Here you really need to stop a little bit and say how important this fact is. It should be said that the government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent ministry have indeed done a very demanding, extensive job over the past five, six or seven years, but above all extremely high quality work because it has provided for our farmers extremely high quality conditions for functioning when the Republic of Croatia becomes a member of the European Union. That is exactly what the argument in favor of the argument is about, and these are the arguments that I have made. So the level of financial envelopes, because for direct payments, we will be provided with 373m euros, and for rural development needs, so in 2014 a total of about 450m euros. So it's over 5 billion kunas of financial resources. Let's just consider the fact that in previous years the highest level of financing for Croatian agriculture has been somewhere on 3 billion kunas 300 million, I think. And what is still very important is this second fact that it tells us that our farmers will be able to get a level of direct payments in the first year when we become a full member of the European Union up to a hundred percent. Since we, that we are the only country that has been able to negotiate that our farmers can, from the first year of national funding, benefit from the difference between 25% and 100% of the financial envelope for direct payments in the first year. For example, I will say that Slovenia seems to me only, that it could have up to 75%, so its total envelope, that it was the only member who could negotiate it, and all the other new members could have reached 50%. It should also be pointed out that with great reliability it can be said that the proposed amendments and additions to the law are, to the greatest extent possible, creating a predictable, therefore, financial framework for the next two years. So, for 2012. But also for 2013 as the first year of Croatia's full membership in the European Union, which compared to most European Union countries today in Croatia. This is what the secretary of state said, and I said something for a while, but the secretary of state specifically spoke about that information. In the follow-up to this debate, I will try to specify the most important newspaper that brings us the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Support, Agriculture and Rural Development, so let's move forward. Therefore, the national envelope for 2012 was established. The year which for that year makes the sum of the right to a single regional payment, additional rights from the national reserve, the right to production-related payments, and the right to the State reserves which will not be an integral part of the national envelope in the future. The financial envelope for rural development measures at national level for 2011 and 2012 has been established and all types of national rural development measures for 2012 and 2013 as well as their maximum intensity have been defined. The application of EU rules for the allocation of payment entitlements has been prescribed, hence the single payment programme since 2012 with certain national adjustments, given that the funds are still provided exclusively at national level. An upper limit of the national reserve for 2011 and 2012 has been set which cannot exceed 2% of the total national envelope established for that year. It is prescribed that users of premiums for suckler cows, sheep and goats and support for the preservation of original and protected breeds will be able to achieve this right in the future if they have provided suitable accommodation or adequate land for their pasture. A minimum incentive quantity for dairy cows has been reduced, a new period of three years has been established since the entry into the European Union for the application of the State aid instrument, i.e. for sugar beet and those other sectors that I mentioned earlier. So, it's going to go somewhere by mid-2016. A provision based on the provision that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will set out measures that will be possible at local level as well as guidelines for their implementation, while respecting the fact that the regulation of measures and guidelines takes a certain period of time to which the unit of local self-government can co-finance, or grant support at its level of up to 30. September 2012. An obligation to comply with the conditions of multiple compliance for certain rural development measures is prescribed if the support is provided by area or by throat. It has been achieved, the threshold for receipts based on direct payments and rural development measures that the user undertakes to enter the income tax system, from 24 to 48000 kuna. The obligation to attach evidence to the register of taxpayers' income tax has been abolished as it will be able to verify it on its own in future agency through administrative cooperation with the tax administration. Finally, the conditions for the exercise of the right of support for organic and integrated production, for original and protected breeds and for areas with difficult management conditions have been further developed, whereby users are bound to be detained for five years in that activity. We particularly want to express our satisfaction with the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives, which will continue to support income during 2012. For years, because another additional deadline is given for our farmers in that category of farmers to finally decide whether to go towards further commercialisation of their production or to focus on some additional activity so that they can ensure adequate income for themselves and for their family, or their household. Finally, by respecting all this I have said before, and especially when we talk about a financial envelope that will be really very generous when we are a member of the European Union, and which is significantly higher than all the new members of the European Union, but also most of the old members of the European Union, the club of representatives has no choice but to support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on State Support for Agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79874	Thank you. It is next to the HSS Club and Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79875	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have an extremely important Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support, Agriculture and Rural Development. In line with this law, it is stated that one of the reasons for the adoption of the proposed amendments is to build on the outcome of negotiations with the European Union in the area of agriculture and rural development. Croatia has achieved a great deal in agricultural negotiations, with financial resources primarily in mind. When we become a full member of the European Union, more than 800m euros will be available to our farmers and Croatian villages. This is on the trail of the HSS programme the rebirth of Croatian villages, in which we said that agriculture and the village needed 6 billion kuna, and the European administration confirmed that our budgets were correct. Of course, this does not mean that, without further effort and without additional work, the very generous budgetary framework that has been provided for us will be used. It is up to all of us to come up with the best way to translate future support in agriculture into what is best and most useful for the Croatian village. I personally believe that the greatest achievement in the negotiations is the right for our farmers to be paid up to 100% of the amount for direct payments because it was not granted to anyone before us. It is very important that, by passing this law last year, we have put in place a step in changing the system of fostering agriculture, in order to avoid sudden earthquakes and to retain some of our specificities in relation to the basic rules laid down by the European Union. That is exactly what we were thinking in our first amendment to this law, which refers to keeping it, i.e. not changing the existing provision on the distribution of payments to pastures and other types of land use from 1 to 3. In view of the importance of pasture for livestock production, we consider it necessary to keep the distribution unchanged. What I particularly want to highlight is the focus of HSS policy, and not only in the area of agriculture, but also in the area of the conservation of the village is the concern of smaller agricultural economies, these amendments and additions to the laws, and it is important to pay attention to improving the conditions of business for small agricultural economies. Reduced mandatory holding of dairy cows, from 5 to one is a valuable incentive for people in the country, and support in keeping the village as we know it. It is also good to increase maximum unit amounts for suckler cows, as well as for sheep and goats, although it is clear that the overall sectoral envelope will remain unchanged because the budgetary framework available must be respected. Over the past period, many of our farmers have started running income and expenditure books, but it is still a big problem for many small family economies. Many have also given up some support because they have estimated that it is invaluable for them to enter the system without knowing whether they will be able to meet their obligations in the future. It is good that this proposal has doubled the limit of income from support to agriculture, where it is required to enter the income tax system, an increase from 24 to 48 thousand kuna. Farmers will also need additional help, not so much money, but organisationally in setting up accounting services to run their books. It is particularly important to extend the application of income support measures for another year, and because of the social status of small agricultural activities, in our opinion this would be absolutely necessary because it is more than 16 thousand economies, or more than 20 thousand people who have received this support in recent years. Here, other rural development measures should accompany small users and allow them to invest in agriculture or in complementary activities such as rural tourism, additional crafts or the like. In HSS we have always stressed the importance of municipalities and cities, in the even development of the whole of Croatia. The mayors, mayors and mayors are closest to their people and best know their local specificities and their needs. However, in order for farmers not to find themselves in an unequal position in relation to their neighbours, certain rules need to be established, there is a good model in this area of Europe that we need to establish and apply to ensure that equal rules apply to all, not that certain municipalities co-finance everything from seedlings to payment per hectare, and none of this is available to their first neighbours. The government is responsible for the functioning of the single market, and the Ministry of Agriculture should be kept on an up-to-date basis by the Register of State Support. Units of local and regional self-government must adapt their development plans and their budgets, therefore it is good to set a new deadline on 30 September 2012, in order to give municipalities, cities and counties more time to adapt their support. In the meantime, we consider it important for farmers to receive support for small investments from the local, regional budget. This is the case with our second amendment, which requires that support for capital investment in agriculture be returned in rural development measures so that such support can be granted to farmers from local county budgets. Our club strongly supports the bill, which is aimed at increasing the share of rural development expenditure, in the overall budget support, in particular by stressing the increase in resources to support organic agriculture, which the HSS advocates in all its programmes. In planning rural development measures when we are a full member of the European Union, Croatia expects more than 330m euros in funding, which will be added to 20% of the national budget. We know that there was a problem with spending all the resources from the SAPHARD programme, and we have similar problems in spending IPARD funds. It is clear that we need to do everything possible to get those funds to the country and to the farmer. It is the only option for us if we really want to take advantage of the opportunities that membership brings. In the improvement of agriculture production and conservation of villages there is also a Croatian agricultural chamber established by a special law, which is precisely why the control of rural development measures was placed in the public authority of the chamber. This is the case with our third amendment, because, with the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, a chamber should also be listed in control of rural development measures, so that these two laws are not in conflict. The development of the village is our mission and goal. Joint action and action are needed to achieve this objective. Priorities will determine the village residents themselves in their local plans on which their development will be based. In any case, we need to arrange our villages, make them attractive, interesting, comfortable and comfortable for life. The residents of the city should be brought to the village and offered quality domestic products and services. This achieves multiple benefits, increases the income of the village's inhabitants, and citizens have a better diet. This is also the direction to go, and this law certainly makes a significant contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79876	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Vinkovic, on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79877	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the HDSSB Club, I would like to request a break of 10 minutes since almost a hundred workers of Đakovština are here in Zagreb at Fascism Victims' Square, which is obviously to be called "the job lost market and lack of severance and labour rights". On their behalf, I'm looking for a 10-minute break. And it's very much about this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79878	The apartment can be given in connection with the work and agenda in the Assembly, not for reasons outside the Parliament. Therefore, if you are looking exclusively for a break, then I could not approve it, and if you are looking for a break in the matter of the agenda point that is being discussed, then you can have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79879	Okay, then I'll rephrase this request. Here, he's doing a consultation with the club before this single debate over this law requires a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79880	It's based on the Rules of Procedure, so I'm setting a 10-minute break and we're moving on in 10.25 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79881	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79882	We're moving on with the session. On behalf of the HDSSB Club Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, 5 minutes please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79883	Now I will try it on Mr. President in 5 minutes, and I will start with this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural and Rural Development Act aimed at increasing agricultural production and one of the most important measures in the development of agriculture was the implementation of operational programmes covering the national programme of management, irrigation and water planned to design and build a system of irrigation to spend 1 and a half billion kuna, but so far less than 200 million kuna has been spent. The production of milk to 1.2 million litres of milk should be increased, the increase of pig loads to 2 million pieces, the reduction of imports of agricultural products, the increase in exports, we are witnessing that today in Croatia there is more imports of agricultural products than exports. That most of the family economies, among other things, and such support, can hardly end the end, but also the food industry on their knees. One of these food industries is Đakovština d.d. which is now in bankruptcy, whose workers, 250, ended up on the street and representatives of these workers are presently in this highest institution of the Croatian Parliament, unfortunately for the sake of the Rules of Procedure and everything else cannot come here to the gallery and listen to it. I appeal once again to all Parliamentary representatives to understand the seriousness of the situation because these people cannot fight in Zagreb from the Croatian Parliament to the Croatian Government to the European House, by looking for various embassies to survive and make ends meet because the workplace is hardly going to be returned to them. On the other hand, Deputy Prime Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic and Mr. Petar Cobankovic, led by the Prime Minister, argues that for these workers 350 there is no legal option, it exists, you can ask all the bankruptcy managers and this is very easy to resolve. It is the state that needs to take on the claims of workers, to be charged in long-term court proceedings because regardless of the state's speedyness in courts today is threefold more bankruptcy requests, the number of these cases has increased from 11 000 600 to 15 and a half thousand, which is 43% more than last year, and the proceedings last several years to 10 years until someone is charged in such bankruptcy proceedings. Another possibility is the adoption of a legislative regulation similar to that of the company Salonite, where workers who have suffered from asbestos are compensated. These workers today, who are here in the metropolis of Croatia, had no journey, no bread tomorrow, can't send their children to school, to college, can't pay for electricity, gas, any other directors. I will use this letter and indeed invite all MPs regardless of party membership to help these people, because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has the possibility, and I would ask the President of the Parliament to put on your bench a proposal for the conclusions of the HDSB Representatives Club which we referred to in the procedure last week. Let me read this to you: Honored parliamentary representatives, members of the Croatian government and the Parliament and citizens of the City of Zagreb, as well as citizens of Croatia. We former workers of Đakovština d.d. Djakovo please raise your voice in the Croatian Parliament and Croatian government in protecting our affected, working, ownership and human rights. Manipulated, robbed, deceived and abandoned by the PP giant union, by the Croatian government, left to the trade court in Osijek, the bankruptcy manager, the Committee of Prophets ended up on the street and now we protest against the gray democracy that we've been exposed to for a year and a half. And we ask of you the MPs of the Parliament to correct the wrong-doers for us. We appeal to your conscience to give us back the dignity and the right to live worthy of every citizen of this country. Former workers failed Đakovština d.d. I am asking you both as a representative and as a mayor but also as a man to listen to the voice of your conscience and to have this Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament reach a conclusion by which your workers will be compensated. Everything else is out of humanity, everything else is beyond what these 65 people who worked and ended up on the street fighting for Croatia because 65 of them are Croatian defenders. The speaker's off, you can hear it. Thank you. Not to mention the ergel in Djakova.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79884	On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79885	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. It is not good that in one topic that definitely confirms how much this government has done for agriculture and farmers over the past 8 years we have been inserting something without while neglecting the applicable laws in the Republic of Croatia, and requires that something be paid, if something is not in accordance with some law, it is not good and it is not smart, but it is therefore necessary to find another option to help. So, what I'd like to say about the support on behalf of the HDZ Club in 2003 was about 900 million kuna. We have reached 3 billion and 900 in the crisis in 2010, and these support in agriculture has not been reduced. These support in agriculture has been paid under the law adopted by this High House with a clear intention of strengthening, strengthening Croatian agriculture and Croatian farmers, by the fact that many agricultural cultures will have a limited number of therefore and quantity when we join the EU. And let us also not forget that the support that farmers will receive in the EU is extremely high, but one elemental thing is being put in place, whether through these support we have managed to prepare our farmers to run quality for these support in agriculture tomorrow, I think that is a key issue. Because if we give that question a negative answer, then we didn't do a good job. If we give a positive answer to that question, I think it's a key question, Mr. Secretary of State, and I think it's a key question of this law. And as for the workers of Đakovština, I'd just like to say something to my colleagues and colleagues. You have the law on bankruptcy, it is clearly defined who and what order are charged to those who have declared their rights in the acquired mass. The other thing, you know well that Đakovštini was done so-called. The ESOP programme in 2002, where small shareholders received so many and so many shares. Đakovština was also in a lot of trouble in 2006, and then the state agreed with both small shareholders and the management of Đakovština with its 84 million kuna claims, so these were claims with the basis of the unpaid VAT on the basis of pension insurance, with the basis of health insurance turning it into a holding share, in practice to return to the equity share again in a certain way. However, from earlier privatisation, small shareholders remained 14.5% of shareholders and small shareholders under the ESOP programme 34.2 and new ESOP 0.2%, thus small shareholders remained virtually 50% of the ownership already in 2007. Now that we're talking about it, we need to give 26 million then first we need to say if it's possible under the existing bankruptcy law, which is the priority of the funds that exist on the bankruptcy jury, then it's the first cost of bankruptcy, after which are the salaries and benefits acquired by employees before bankruptcy. It's a bankruptcy law. And we, when we talk about help, can speak exclusively within the legal frameworks of the Republic of Croatia. Why? Because it is a matter of budgetary resources and any payment of the appropriations by law, it leads to an unfortunate position on the part of the person who gives the order for the payment of those funds. And in this way talking should be given, carried... 26 million don't take anything or the basics of the local self-government units because if I'm not mistaken, there were some suggestions that both the county and the cities are participating, and to attack only the state as if no one were concerned as if it had nothing to do with the city or the county, I don't think it's good. These problems can only be solved together. But I repeat, you all forget that last year the government and those for support in agriculture have allocated more than 3 billion kunas and if you have seen in all those budget cuts in the last two years since the Prime Minister, Ms. Kosor, was not mentioned at any time to reduce support in agriculture. And you who are closer to Đakov and Đakovštini know well among other things why certain money was spent on payouts and this and you can say what you want here today, it can be such a populist story, but unfortunately that populist story to those who protest is not going to help anything. I think it would be far better for you to be aware of the legal rules and maybe looking for some kind of model to help these people, that's one way to go. All of this is a pure political demagogy that leads nowhere and has led us here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79886	We have two corrections. First Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79887	It should be here for at least half an hour to correct Mr. Shucker's representative, but I will only say that the city or county had two representatives on the Supervisory Board, and has not appointed management, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia through funds. And if what Mr. Representative is saying is demagogue, the city is doing through a social program to help these people. On the other hand, there are legal possibilities, I have led them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79888	The correction is not allowed to correct an opinion but a quote, which is why it writes the correction of an incorrect quote, not an opinion. So keep that in mind and don't let me repeat it, but I have to be sure that's what the Rules of Procedure says. And second, the correction has Mr. Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79889	Your Honor, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Mr. Shucker's distinguished representative who said there is no legal possibility that this problem of Đakovština's worker could be solved. There are legal possibilities, Mr. Shucker, but it's only a matter of lack of goodwill. We had an example of the Vranjic Salonite, we all support such a way of resolving how it was solved for these workers. We had a situation with Croatian shipyards where the Croatian Government helped Croatian shipyards with more than 11 billion kunas. We weren't against it, and that's what we're for. Every job is important in Croatia. But I call on all MPs especially 28 MPs who come from Slavonia and Baranja regardless of which party we come from, now raise your voice in the Croatian Parliament and fight for the interests of our fellow citizens. An insult to say that this demagogy is an insult to these 350 hungry and frozen workers. They didn't come here to ask for help, they came looking for their rights. And just one more thing, Mr. Shucker, when you said there was a law on bankruptcy priorities, let's not forget that all laws are always done for people, priority is people, not tycoons, and that they charge everyone else before the workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79890	Okay. ... Please, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79891	And the municipalities and cities... /The speaker turned off./... Don't shut me out.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79892	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79893	... /The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79894	Thank you. Do not abuse the lifting of an incorrect quote and do not waste three times as much time as is allowed. Why do you make me have to warn you all the time? The breach of the Rules of Procedure has Mr. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79895	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So Article 209 was injured. Not one of my allegations has been corrected, so I've told the facts, the fact has not been corrected. It's demagogy again, you can't compare companies that aren't in bankruptcy. Shipyards aren't in bankruptcy, so I'm the explicity here, and I didn't say about those poor 200 and so many people protesting that they're selling demagogy. They don't sell demagogues, you sell demagogues here using their misery to gain cheap political points. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79896	Looking formally, Mr. Schuker found that there was no financial opportunity to get rid of it, and Mr. Buric claims to have, so he corrected it. Whoever's right, I don't know. I'm not a judge. The latter, therefore, was not in line with the correcting of Mr Buric's incorrect claim, but he replied to one claim contrary to the claim but what we can do. Let's move on. Mr. Zoran Vinkovic, we continue the debate on this agenda point by clubs, so it is up to the HDSSB Club and Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79897	This is before I go to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development before I enter the European Union I must return to the situation in Croatia. So not wanting to be a political demagogue or demagogue at all because this is not about any political demagogy, Djakovo-Zoran Vinkovic did not have a 0.01 lip of the ownership stake either in "Pika Đakovo" because "Djakovština d.d" is just to say that Kranjčević, a reliquiae reliquiarum, the rest of the remains. Kranjčević thought of Croatia, I mean "Pik Đakovo" who, during the Homeland War with Croatian defenders, held the first line of battlefields because he fed Slavonia because all the other Pics were either under occupation or were destroyed. Among these 350 people who remained from the former 3300 employees, 3300 employees and these 350 ended up on the street. Of these 350, 65 are Croatian defenders. The D.O.D. is silent. Croatian defenders ended up on the street in a bankruptcy process that is still going on. The whole problem isn't just going from two resolutions made by Racan's government either at the time by Sanader's government. The whole problem stems from the conversion and privatisation that was made by the "knowledge" model. It is probably still true in Croatia that "who has pitted, pitied", but the conversion and privatisation of "Pika" is also war profiting. Unfortunately, based on the audit she's done...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79898	Excuse me, counselor, stick to the agenda point because what you were saying shouldn't be in this agenda point because... Yeah, about the support, and... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But not about conversion and privatisation. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79899	Which were also spent in Djakovština. Which were also spent in Djakovština. And I'm talking about the fact that based on the findings of the revision of the conversion and privatisation that arrived in the city of Djakovo, because I was looking for it, it wasn't wanted by any union, the state's attorney's office for nine years took a single step. All the time the workers were fired, the state had a holding stake, the administration stayed. The management that brought the company into bankruptcy along with the state. Suspected loans were taken three months before the election. Based on false showings in the company's business, a loan was given to a bank of 10m euros in order to pay the salary. Two people who were appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia sat on the Supervisory Board the whole time. Audio, video or any agency, it's less important to these workers. Vinkovic does not buy barbed wire, nor does the HDSSB. The very people who have nothing to live on today have entered that barbed wire, and that's not clear to you today. Today it is clear to the hockey players of the Medvests who will collect humanitarian aid, but it is not clear to the MPs, especially representatives who come from Slavonia. It's not clear that these people may have voted for HDZ, I don't know, I haven't asked them, and I don't care who they vote for right now, but it's important to me that they have something to live on tomorrow. It's a lie, not to tell the truth, that the state has no legal option. There are three legal options, three. The takeover of trust in bankruptcy and the payment of workers should be charged by the state. What the Minister of Justice Bosnjakovic believes, in... in commercial courts, then wait 10 years of the state and let it be charged from these proceedings. [[You don't understand.]] Third, "Salonite" was one of me to say precedent, but a positive precedent adopted by this Croatian Parliament. And the workers are in what way they're compensated. But I don't know if you know that the bankruptcy procedure of the Salonita is still going on and it's not over and the question is when it will be over. And the third, most unpopular measure, and the same is legal. There's a backup from the reserve. So how many times did they at least sit in government, how many billion in these four years have they divided into closed government sessions to maybe finance a Serb larger municipality. How much? And now there are no 26 million kunas in the law of Croatia, not in Albanian, not in Irish, but in Croatian, deserved severances. I appeal to this Croatian Parliament, if the union has already betrayed them, if the administration has betrayed them, we do not need them as representatives. The HDSB club proposed by not collecting cheap political points, nor did this ever come to mind and suggested a conclusion requiring the Croatian government to find these funds. Unfortunately, it hasn't been divided into benches yet. And I can say as a representative from Slavonia, but also Mayor Djakova, so it's not Djaco's town case. He has the city of Djakovo as the heart of Slavonia and helps these workers as well as others through the social programme regardless of the small budget, regardless of the centralisation of Croatia. Oh, we couldn't even stand the ergelle. There's the secretary of state. We're talking about support, production's going down, and we're doing stupid things. We're destroying a tradition of over 500 years based on what? We're making a ride. For who? The regulation is written. Why isn't he in the government? And there are certain MPs at certain meetings as it is all settled. The minister says it's settled. Nothing's been solved. The municipal state's attorney's office is moving to Nashice. The court will be here soon. It's just that there's no way to transfer the cathedral in the last month. You also have... Nuts, you have a series of bankruptcys and people are hungry there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's pass one law once, let's leave a little Europe alone. Let's pass a law that will help those people who lost their jobs. There are no gentlemen from the left. But neither did they raise their voice for these workers, nor did they. And there's no demagogy here. That's why I'm calling on you as Parliamentarians to realize that these people have been cheated, robbed, played, that there's a legal possibility of helping them just need good will. But based on the fact that it was a private company, I would have solved that problem in the local self-government unit. But this company was where the state had over 30% ownership, and whoever was once a worker, and even in socialism they didn't ask him about anything, let alone here through some ESO program that was a new scam of these workers and there the state got seven million kuna and there they were cheated. If he were to decide something, because if he raised his voice, he'd be fired from that same administration the next day. So don't do this. Is there any more time? So I repeat and say little about these measures today is my priority for these 350 people and workers, former workers who unfortunately cannot and will hardly reach a new job, regardless of the trend in increasing employment. But apparently the only measure of increasing that employment is if you don't apply for a course at the Employment Service to wipe you out for a few months, so there are fewer employees in Croatia. Today my priority here on behalf of the club was not this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development, but the best picture that speaks I call here on the Secretary of State, including the Minister, and I especially call on my colleague from Mr. Lucic's Pleternica, who is not here today, to leave here. He could have gone on an independent day and seen that these shops were working on a state holiday, not that he wasn't going to work on Sundays. He'll be working on Christmas, too. So here's when you catch the time to go check out some of those shelves, so you'll see what's been done in agriculture in these few years, that at least on these shelves there are Croatian products, starting not to talk about wheat, corn, sunflower, we import even dry leaves and branches and not in the amount of 100 kuna. For those of you watching Mexican soaps, we're also importing some Mate tea from Mexico. It is a shame of Croatian agriculture, agriculture which and the ministries dealing with savings, mergers, not real agriculture policy. One of these measures was the merger of two state ergels, one that was created in 1506 years, and the 1806s began growing Lipian. So it is the 505th year of the tradition of horsekeeping in Đakov, not only in Đakov, but also in Croatia. If the Americans had they'd celebrate the second day of independence, and we'd put it together by not wanting to offend anyone, we'd put it together with another bachelor. So I suggest you put all these three together now, or two, with one private grower of choice. What we're asking and we're not going to give up on it is that both state ergela Lipik and state ergela Đakovo get her legal personality, because it's only normal and only fair, that Đakovo gets her birthplace, that there are more jobs in Slavonia, that there is a better living in Slavonia and that there is more production. And to get these 350 workers their earned severances without false demagogy, without politicization, without anything that smells like politics because it's theirs. They made those silos, not us. I worked there, though, and my whole family. Many of you didn't, but they left their bones there. In the end, they were thrown out into the street. I appeal to the Croatian Parliament to help these people, to help them in a way that allows their rights to be achieved. Not to get social aid, but to get their rights realised, and there's a legal possibility for that to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79900	Thank you. Two corrections. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79901	Thank you very much. You said that Đakovština as well as the whole Slavonia at the time of the war, so when Croatia was well occupied, and Slavonia was occupied on both the western and eastern sides, Đakovština as the heart of Slavonia fed all of Croatia and that at the time, the peaks were fueled by war, etc. But it's not, therefore, correcting the incorrect assumption that the peaks were not killed and combined only by war, but also by harassing at the stage of conversion and privatisation, which was done at the time. The best example for this is Jasinje Slavonski Brod, which was totally destroyed and devastated right at wartime, and without any war action on Jasinj Slavonski Brod's property. Those who sat in the chairs acted and exercised power at the time in Brod-Posavina County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79902	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79903	Thank you very much. Well, counterpart Vinkovic said the state is guilty of not helping and finding opportunities to help workers. First of all, I think my colleague Shucker said well before, and you could hear it that the laws in this country are worth the same thing and that everything if anything were done would be done by precedent. You know very well that the workers through open bankruptcy will settle their claims, clearly can't now, but one thing that matters is that you didn't do and you didn't help those workers, I got the information now because I consulted, and that is that you didn't instruct the workers to open the bankruptcy procedure within 30 days of opening up to the Search Agency, to the Agency to protect requests for their funds and their severances and salaries. Unfortunately, the workers didn't do it. They missed the deadline and instead of the bankruptcy manager they need now, because you took over the role of now the bankruptcy manager who needs to see how to find opportunities and whether there is a legal possibility of doing it retroactively, because the workers should have done it, and then they would have helped them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79904	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79905	This Regulation shall enter Dear colleague Kunst, I don't know if you're saying this out of your union commissioner practice, but it wasn't me who was supposed to refer workers to their rights, it was the union, but also the owner, the state that was supposed to take care of those workers, not throw them out on the street.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79906	Well, there's no corrections. Let's move on. Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79907	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development, a final harmonisation of our support with Europe in the pre-accession period. It includes the results of our negotiations in the chapter of agriculture and rural development, and what we know about the results of these negotiations is that they are already extremely successful, which provides a good perspective for agriculture, rural space and after entering the European Union. As legislation in the European Union is constantly changing in this area, a new reform of European support for agriculture has already been announced, it can be expected that this area will already be arranged in a somewhat different way since 2014. This must also be known by our economies in this sector both small and medium and large, and adapted and monitored precisely by these changes. However, with great reliability, it can now be said that this is the most predictable framework for the next two years, which means 2012 and 2013, which will be the first year of Croatia's full membership in the European Union. The fact is also that our farmers as well as their fellow farmers in the European Union countries, if they want to take advantage of all the benefits afforded by the common agricultural policy, will have to keep up with all the changes in this area. The law has already defined the funds available to individual sectors in the summer of last year, but only means for 2011. We believe that it is good that the budgetary framework is also established for rural development measures, which are complemented by direct payments, these are payments for organic integrated production, as well as payments for areas with more difficult management conditions in agriculture, and I believe that this area is indeed a great development potential, especially where it can be tied to not only primary, but also secondary and tertiary branches of the economy. I support the policy of a gradual but continuous increase in the share of support for rural development in total support, in particular the increase in the share and role of rural development measures paid to farmers annually, with relatively simple procedure and thus the addition of direct payments, which strengthens their competitiveness. And this proposal clearly shows that direction in the planning of sectoral envelopes for pre-accession years. This is particularly important because after entering, we are expected to have incomparably more money for rural development than we are currently able to isolate from our own budget. The fact is also that, compared with most European Union countries, the funds for agriculture and rural development in Croatia are higher today, especially in relation to the new members, to the new member states, so I hope that this will also have a positive impact on the competitiveness of our agriculture, as well as on the accelerated development of our rural areas after entry, when these funds are significantly higher. There are already visible shifts, visible shifts can be seen in some of our rural areas where we are facing already implemented projects of pre-accession funds, and this is, for example, in the Zadar County area large, or large funds withdrawn from the SAPHARD programme, meaning almost a third of the funds available to us and agreed, went to Zadar County, so that already the results have meanings in the Pag area via the Paga Syran and Syran Little Siren from Kolan, in the area of the town of Benkovac, Stankovac, meaning funds were used in processing and processing and milk, but also fish. As for our ability to make maximum use of domestic funds for direct payments since the first year, it should be pointed out once again that this has failed before us in the negotiations. It is also true that the share of the funds that will be paid to Brussels in the beginning will be lower, but it has also been made with all new countries before us. It is crucial and important to point out that only Croatia will have the opportunity to supplement these payments up to 100 % of course here should also stress that maximum responsibility is also needed, which includes respect for these very well-defined control conditions prescribed by the EU. And, of course, it is in our interest to follow those rules because it ultimately guarantees that support will come into the right hands. Thus, those who deserve this support, but also that at national level, they will produce results that are in line with the set objectives of national agriculture policy. A certain increase in these maximum unit amounts for suckler cows as well as for sheep and goats, but only within the framework of the available funds I believe that it will welcome our breeders who have to catch up with the competition and offer the market a quality and competitive product. In these productions we hope for strong development and expansion of the range of final products, given that we also have comparative advantages for them, but we also have a continuation of what I said before. It means branding, but also putting it through the tourist demand. And that means not only in the coastal and coastal areas but also in the entire rural area of the Republic of Croatia. It is also good that this law monitors the trends in harmonisation of tax legislation under economic recovery measures, so the limit of income from support to agriculture as a reference to the obligation to enter the income tax system is increased from 24 thousand to 48 thousand kuna. That seems to me to be well-defined. There are other important provisions, and I just want to point out some. The application of income support measures is also being extended in 2012, with the largest aid to small family economies that want to increase their income to determine whether they will increase their business size and commercialise themselves or start to engage in extra activities outside agriculture, which is something that Kresso spoke of more on behalf of the HDZ Club of Representatives. However, it is never easy to determine which line would be most appropriate, but here we find a good and logical explanation that this threshold is doubled in a way that is doubled and the amount of receipts followed by mandatory inclusion in the VAT system. So an increase of 85 to 170 thousand kuna. One more thing I want to point out, it's good, which our system for 2012, meaning this proposal, is going to be something simpler. Namely, they will not be trafficked by these rights, and in this way there will be an additional entry of agricultural areas into the direct payment system until May 2013, and we are all in the interest of these areas as much as possible. And here's something else I want to highlight only one segment of this, that our national interest means can't be complete meaning without a stable this private agricultural production which also binds to itself secondary production, but also service activities, what I said before, and that its effect is multipled in all spheres of our life from national self-sufficiency to market competitiveness. I would like to mention more segments of milk, i.e. the Association of Economicians in the Production of Milk "MILCO" whose results speak very much. The production of milk in 2006 was 5 million litres, in 2011. 100 million liters, which is a fifth of Croatian production. The number of cows rose from 7200 to 12000 throats, and employees 970 to 1500. And how did they come up with such good results? Just through symbiosis with a resorient ministry and of course support from the Government of the Republic of Croatia when in 2009 small and large sat down at the table with the Prime Minister, with one goal, means community and respect and through the advisory body essentially created and coordinated agricultural policy in this segment. And if it weren't for that kind of cooperation, and today we clearly suspect that many "small" producers would be maintained under quotes, but we also suspect that these big ones would be developing at this very rate. Here, let this example also serve as a model for others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79908	Thank you. Three replicas. First, Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79909	Well, here's my colleague, Marinović, we heard from you this morning how much this government has invested in support of agriculture, almost 4 billion. But the key question is, have we really prepared our farmers to withdraw money through support so far? We remember there were problems with Sapard and IPARD, especially in SAPARD we didn't withdraw all the funds. We remember the basic reason was the fragmentation of the estate. And the other reason was that they didn't know how to print all those forms. Here, today we see in this law that the secretary of state has presented to us that a great help is going towards small economies in a way that doubles incomes from 24 thousand kunas to 48 thousand kunas which they will not all have to run those books, which is also one of the great aids for them. One question arises, have we done enough, given that huge resources have been invested to prepare farmers and have we done enough to make our agricultural product competitive? I believe we did, and you said something on that trail, so I'm counting on you to tell me in response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79910	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79911	Thank you. counterparts of Shuica all measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia went to that end. Some have produced excellent results, and I have cited it through this example, and some have not produced results. However, most or many therefore had pre-accession funds through which all the use and learning could be learned means all the use of EU funds. There was a role, meaning not only small, medium and large agricultural producers but also a significant role as a unit of local and regional self-government that was available to them, but also many agencies at their disposal means to teach them how to withdraw funds. Here I have also cited the example of Zadar County and the SAPARD programme where excellent results have been achieved, but just in cooperation means the unit of local, regional self-government together with producers means in the sector of processing and milk in this area. Where everyone or most of them had the opportunity, some of them who took the preparation seriously prepared themselves well and withdrew funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79912	Second replica, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79913	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Marinović offered me in your discussion your observation that where units of local self-government were involved in using the SAPARD program to make it much more. Today we also had one legacy of the past, which is very pressing on Croatian farmers, and these are PICs that were once both administrative and technical and technological bearers of the development of agriculture. Those PICs are in the situation they're in. Thanks to God, some of them are well privatised, so today the example of PIK Vrbovac, PIK Belje and others are working, so they can function themselves, we have to be through pre-accession programs SAPARD the best proved and there we must not hide, which is that our farmers have neither the knowledge nor the administrative capacity to prepare quality programmes for pre-accession programmes and tomorrow for accession programmes, the government has established a commission that should have built administrative capacities that will tomorrow help farmers to use European funds and I think that this is the key when we talk about this law because this law is in a certain way compatible with everything that has happened in the past period, trying to place in certain legal frameworks farmers but legal frameworks that are intended for these other entrepreneurs to say so, but without the units of local self-government, without the help which the government has established these funds will be very difficult, and I think that it is necessary to say clearly, and therefore, that some of the things that you have to go from Kolean and Pakleago to the other things that are made. This PIC we talked so much about 20 years ago was a bearer of agricultural production once all over, it is unfortunately today on its knees. And it is simply necessary to find another way to help these people get up again and make Đakovština a significant agricultural producer at the level of the Republic of Croatia, and then to offer some brighter future to the people in the situation in which they found themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79914	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79915	Well, here's what I agree with you, Comrade Shucker. I will only remind myself that SAPARD was a programme aimed at rural development, progress in agriculture and the preparation of the state for the withdrawal of European funds but it was specific in one segment. So much that the funds had to be provided. If a project that was in line with the programmes of the development of units of local and regional self-government, which was in line with the policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, could also provide funding for this programme, it is as specific as the funds must be invested and, after the investment, the European Commission's funds are returned, so, unlike the other funds, they are grants but they had to be invested. There, the insurance of these funds was not only in the preparation of projects but also in the insurance of funds there was a significant role of units of local, regional self-government but I say again that the coherence of development projects at all levels to get support and that could be realised. That's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79916	And Mrs. Representative Marija Buric Pejcinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79917	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I think it is really important to note that it is indeed in the negotiations on agriculture that the government has achieved an excellent position in some segment for Croatian farmers and in general for rural areas, this is exactly the place. You mentioned the production of milk by one sector that is sensitive, which is extremely important, I think it is necessary to repeat that the quota that the government has managed to negotiate, and before that, with its incentives, that quota could have been such, 750 million litres and as long as the quota exists in the European Union, this quota will be sufficient for our milk producers. The same goes for sugar quota is bigger than the one we have before and I don't think it's important to say that Croatian sugarcanes wouldn't have been if it hadn't been for a good policy in the sugar segment, and sugar is produced in those regions in Croatia where general development is in the lowest area. And I think it should once again be pointed out that the position that the government has managed to negotiate for this area and as regards direct incentives and as regards rural development we have heard extremely well from the Secretary of State that position is among the first few European Union countries, it should not be ignored, however, this should take into account that the good conditions of using funds should be exactly an incentive for everyone to make good use of this money because that good position the government has used will be really good if we know and withdraw that money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79918	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79919	Thank you. Here I am in my debate, and I particularly pointed out that the results of these negotiations are indeed visible that they are extremely successful and that this allows us to have a good perspective both for agriculture and for the entire rural area. Given that there is a significant part of the European Union's funds or financial envelope, it is precisely rural development on us now to prepare all entities that can withdraw these funds for this very envelope of rural development, and under rural development, I reiterated, and in my debate, I said, over 90% of the Republic of Croatia is a rural area, and here we have opportunities to come up with good projects that will realise those objectives set by the Government of the Republic of Croatia from that self-sufficiency to the competitiveness of Croatian agricultural products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79920	Secretary of State, Stephen Mikolcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79921	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, I just wanted certain things or dilemmas to clear up. It is doubtless that we from the Ministry of Agriculture negotiated a good financial framework for Croatia's future agricultural policy or agriculture, and that is unequivocal. There has now been some doubt that we have prepared ourselves in terms of institutional and especially in that segment of agricultural entities that this relatively generous financial framework must be withdrawn. So I have to say just in this negotiating process that's been going on for almost six years, that during this period we've been systematically reforming, among other things this is the last thing about the legislative framework, we've been preparing, so in the institutional part. We created new agencies, agencies that absolutely did their part of the work, to prepare themselves, to introduce all registers, registers of domestic animals, registers of agricultural producers, agricultural producers by segments or by sectors of agricultural production, therefore, we have the database in the manner that legal property is prescribed. In other words, I would now like to say by law that we, by amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act, are, in a way, converting the common agricultural policy into a Croatian agricultural policy, i.e. the common agricultural policy, into a Croatian or agrarian agricultural policy. In other words, absolutely through these measures that have been available to us through the SAPARD pre-accession Fund, we have prepared our agricultural entities for what will wait for them when we join the EU. Because this very envelope for rural development of 333 million European components and plus 20 to 25% of the national component, which is over 400 million euros, is issued and functioned to develop our entire agriculture and food production in the function of developing the sustainability of rural space means all activities and is in some way available to local administration and self-government units in terms of the development of municipal infrastructure in order to increase the standard of residents in rural space. Absolutely here's everything we've been doing in this period, it's been going towards getting ready to make these resources available to us when we become a member as easy as possible to say so. And I can responsibly argue that everything we've done has been practically going that way, and when we become a member, our agricultural producers will not be in front of any new or significantly larger barriers in terms of the criteria they have to meet in order to achieve support than they are today. Here's to try to simplify, the funds from the fund from which they will finance direct payments absolutely go according to the criteria that we absolutely have in law today. The funds provided for by rural development are also for agriculture, for example in countries in Slovenia, in Austria in Slovakia, for example, 50% of these funds go through agri-environmental measures in Hungary, including through measures for difficult management conditions. The Slovenians half their way of saying the Rural Development budget is penalizing again over to say agricultural areas or production related to difficult management conditions, then there are agri-environmental measures, it's integrated production, it's organic production. Now we have measures from SAPARD and IPARD, which are intended to support investment in agricultural economies, whether to build new facilities, farms or equipment. There will be some of these funds in some way deployed and will be in that function. We have made it more or less possible today to say infrastructure to our farmers. Each county has a development agency that is absolutely involved in the preparation of agricultural entities that want to share these funds through measures already taken in the SAPARD yesterday, today the IPARD exists. An absolute number of consulting houses have also been formed, which are also very active for all entities who want to implement their projects in some way through pre-accession funds, which are very successful. In fact, our agency or the SAPARD Directorate, which is responsible for promoting all measures, has almost no week or day to be anywhere in any county or municipality in the presentation of all these and measures and conditions to be respected by the agricultural entity in terms of running, nominating and meeting all the conditions. At this point, here is the title of everything that we have done and taken, and I can responsibly say that we have already reached the highest level of standards of conduct in agriculture related to withdrawal, so far we have exclusively had national funds intended for agriculture and this part of pre-accession funds. This can also be supported by the latest IPARD competitions, the latest IPARD bids are used to a far greater extent than the SAPARD funds we used. But why did we not use to a greater extent the percentage of those resources available at SAPARD? The reason was, among other things, because we had identical measures through which we provided more generous support in a national context and under less stricter conditions. Practically now there are no more national measures compatible with measures from the IPARD pre-accession Fund and there is now a significant shift and I think that we will absolutely prepare our agricultural sector for EU membership. It is largely prepared and now prepared and that Croatian farmers and agriculture think they are waiting for a perspective. No country in the last two accession circles has passed the negotiating process in this way, has been prepared this way. And now that you take one Poland that was either peasants or farmers of Poland who were the biggest Eurosceptics, today they are the biggest advocates of the common agricultural policy and the EU. Therefore, I have no doubt that in the best way with all our abilities, knowledge and these experiences, we will also gain positive effects in the development and perspectives of our agriculture tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79922	Thank you. Mr. Representative Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79923	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will also support these amendments to the law. With great reliability, it can be said that these changes create the most predictable framework for the next two years, meaning for 2012 as well as for 2013, which will be the first year of Croatia's full membership in the EU. The fact is that our farmers, as well as their fellow farmers in EU countries, will, if they want to take advantage of all the benefits afforded by the common agricultural policy, have to monitor all changes in this area continuously, given that we have already heard that the amendments to the legislation are being prepared by 2014. We already have a law that we passed in the summer of last year that defines the funds available in certain sectors but only for 2011 because at that moment there was an expectation that 2012 would be the year of membership, which means that we could not prejudge the resources that we would have available. It is very good that the budgetary framework has also been established for rural development measures complemented by direct payments, meaning those are payments for organic and integrated production as well as payments for areas with difficult management conditions in agriculture. I also personally support the policy of a gradual but continuous increase in the share of support for rural development in total support, in particular the increase in the share and role of rural development measures paid annually to farmers with a relatively simple procedure, thus adding direct payments to their competitiveness. The bill clearly shows this direction in the planned sectoral envelopes for pre-accession years. This is particularly important because after entering, we are expected to have more money incomparably for rural development than we are currently able to separate from our own budget. The fact is also that, compared with most European Union countries, the funds for agriculture and rural development are higher in Croatia today, especially in relation to the new member states. I therefore hope that this will also have a positive impact on the competitiveness of our agriculture as well as on the rapid development of our rural areas which, after entry, are even greater. The visible shifts can already be seen in some of our rural environments, we've heard that before. We also expect that this will be done even more during this period until the entry into the European Union. As for our ability to make maximum use of domestic funds for direct payments since the first year of membership, we should once again point out that this has not worked out in the negotiations before us. So it is crucial that only Croatia will have the opportunity to supplement those payments up to 100% in 2013. Of course, here we would like to emphasise the need for maximum responsibility as well as respect for the rigorous control conditions prescribed by the European Union. Croatia is absolutely in the interest of respecting these rules because it ultimately guarantees that support will come into the right hands, meaning those who deserve it. We have successfully completed the negotiations in this area, and we have shown that almost two years before we enter, we have established a reliable system of control of the spending of funds for direct payments in accordance with European Union rules, which most of the new countries before us managed to achieve just before entry, and some even after that. In the fight for survival under economic difficulties, small economies will be helped by provisions of laws that reduce the mandatory number of dairy cows from five throats to one throat as a condition for the exercise of the right to support. It is visible from the bill that we still have a lot of work to do to make our farmers take advantage of all the opportunities they will have at their disposal. It is extremely important that the payment allocation system is implemented for the next 2012 to create a good basis for the redistribution of these rights that formally await us in the first year of entry. Here today was a lot of words about the role of local self-government units when it comes to support. Since I come from an area of special state concern where unfortunately due to the war destruction, permanent plantations were largely destroyed and almost 100% destroyed, I think that the basic government was making a decision on operational programmes, or an operational programme when it was taken to raise multi-annual plantations. So, together with the funds that the Ministry of Agriculture or the Government of the Republic of Croatia has allocated with us from local self-government, we have so far singled out some 15 million kunas in the last 10 years to raise many years, and as a result over a thousand acres of vineyards, olive groves, peaches, I don't know what not. So by working together, the result is visible. There were also stories about the role of local self-government in pre-accession funds. I'll take this information out now not to brag. Here we have so far, for the last ten years in Benkovac we have received our own apps that we ourselves have withdrawn 4.5 million euros. The last example we have in our special dose in Shopot, the company, or the fishing cooperative "Omega 3" is given to me by 11 or 12 million kuna of grants and they build, Mrs. Marinovic said something to fishermen, so they got 12 million kuna of grants. Also, Žuvela from Hvar, a fish processing company, has received about a million euros in grants. So when you want to, you can. Often, we can hear a colleague of Mondekara who mostly speaks in front of the SDP when pre-accession funds are at stake, how too little money has been withdrawn from pre-accession funds. Here's our example as a small environment, we speak exactly the opposite, and we are not the only ones who are fortunately the only ones in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79924	Thank you. Two replicas. First, Madam Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79925	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, you have pointed out that we have negotiated well and that is why you have made the arguments. I would say we planned well because in fact the result of the negotiations shows that we know both the Croatian village and the family farms and that we wrote it here in the coalition agreement and that what we wrote down is that we realized it. Many laughed at us and criticized us when we said that for the survival of the Croatian village, for support in agriculture, for the construction of social, social, municipal infrastructure requires a minimum of 6 billion kuna per year. Many objected because, of course, those who do not know the Croatian village, who did not stop to the identity of the Croatian people, which was preserved by the Croatian village, cannot understand what we are talking about. But here are the negotiations that confirmed that after both financial envelopes were approved that it was cca amounting to 6 billion kuna, as we predicted. I therefore agree with you, not only did we negotiate well but we also planned well, and this is confirmed by the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79926	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79927	Thank you. My colleague Petyr, that confirms the old lady that it doesn't matter what he said, it matters who said it. So right from your finding you gave the answer to that, so those who don't live with the village and the country really can't even know what the problems in those areas are and how to solve the problems. And we mean who we live with every day with these problems and with these people, of course we know better, from practice it's confirmed, that the results certainly do.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79928	And Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79929	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Box, there's often a word of competitiveness mentioned here today. I think it's very important to underline it and I think it's certainly in that part of the support in agriculture that needs to be said in creating that competitiveness, of course, from that institutional framework that Mr. Secretary of State spoke of. But it is necessary to say, at the time of the 2000-2003 coalition government, there were a billion and 300 million kunas, as I recall, and now it's 3 billion and 600 million kuna. Surely the support in that part played a significant role. But you also said that the role of local self-government is important. I congratulate you on these achievements you have achieved, but I also come from an environment that is important in agriculture, mainly in the dairy industry and livestock industry, etc. And I am therefore pleased that the possibility for local self-government to participate in that part of 2012 is also to improve agriculture. It's our fundamental goal, so in this way to act, unlike our rivals on the opposite side who says it is, we're for advanced agriculture, but when we had to raise a hand by 600 million last year for the elemental flood disaster then there's no. Well, it's not farming, dear fellow, so bring those books to the market and now say, "We're for agriculture." We are the ones who, therefore, act to get that product into the market. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79930	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79931	Thank you. You noticed your colleague well when you mentioned competitiveness. So, I'm talking out of practice again. After "Storm," it means after the end of the Homeland War, people come home and wait for them burned houses and abandoned fields. With joint effort and mara, means that Croatian governments, I repeat, and us from local self-government are the result of the rise of many years of plantations. Here, for the last two years in the Benkovec area, we've got 10 top-notch wines. It's a product to compete with. Here is the company, i.e. the Benkovac Winery, which operates within the company Badel in 1862, won countless very valuable prizes in the competitions last year and this year. So that's how we local self-government think we can be really proud and happy that we gave support at the moment when it was practically necessary. This is how we create products that will also be competitive in the European Union when it enters it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79932	Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79933	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is clear that this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Market Support for Agriculture and Rural Development will be supported by me. And certainly everything that's been said here so far is about one step, and by respecting everything here I'm not going to rely on the items of the law, but perhaps through the works related to practice and life to show where it is yesterday, where it is today, and where it is tomorrow. And she just encouraged me, that's what I was going to talk about, a point that is related to competitiveness and the creation of an assumption of how to achieve that competitiveness. And since we are in front of us in Zagorje, and I am Zagorec always drop something that we promote, and in times back 10 or more years there was a word or it was said almost fart, that is their Zagorje acid. The fact is that in these ten years, a huge step has been made, and the fundamental footnote that I'm talking about is competitiveness, and I'm going through that competitiveness to add the word education. It is a constant feature, as in any branch of the economy, and so agriculture I speak positively condemned to competitiveness but always re-enhancing knowledge which means education. Which is very often when I talk about the basic forms of agriculture and when we talk about warfare, it is sometimes not easy to achieve about livestock farming when we talk about European forms, habits or competitiveness that must be a prerequisite. And I'm going back to those ten years, back to Zaprešić end, vineyarding. Sorts that are traditional for ten or a hundred years and through a system of education primarily through wine associations as associations that are not institutional, but also after that and through, as institutional assistance. So there's a new step. It is the creation of positive thinking that creates a prerequisite for capital investment. The viticulture was just a good topic on which we can see it, through capital investments, so on a material basis and new plantations of vineyards, we come to a better variety of wine as was said and just before our fellow Benkovec mayor. And Zagorec today, you can't believe, can boast of the world's top prizes when it comes to wines and some of us have made. However, the message is now further and further, as well as how in the concept of education to think about a product that is no longer a liter of table wine, is a product that through its label, which through its ability to apply gives that economic operator a new chance, and then just connecting both cheese and milk and sausage, and then quality wine, and then education related to the way food and drink is used, we come up with a new product that is no longer just agricultural. It is economical but it is also touristically important to network all segments primarily of the business, but also of the public living and space we operate on. Things are generated, wine roads are moving, associations are created that are currently connecting in the way and clusters in tourism, and as such allow for exactly and additional employment and, above all, rural populations and measures under this law are linked to the subject, and thus generally encourage the economy. And now I'm going back to competitiveness and education. So it's my message, and it's also tied up through support, because the support is ultimately immersive if they don't tend through their fundamental role in general education to all those who are being supported as such. And where is Croatia today? So, we definitely have a chance both as a tourist country and as a transit country, a country that has extraordinary natural beauty and just connecting our comparative advantages, but right through education, the kind of production that gives each of us the possibility of new proof in that part of the job, but also for a larger social gross product, we are then creating a basis, so that even such support as today and today, and which we are talking about, have their heads and tails, and that those as such and are an integral part of exactly European laws relating to agriculture, and certainly thanks and commending both the ministry and all the services that they have discussed and thus created the preconditions for our starting positions to be appropriate. It is up to us that there and such an opportunity and that possible starting position which is definitely verified at this point and as such exists in the time that we definitely take advantage of. I believe, and I said that viticulture is one of the examples of just constant education. I can't get kidnapped with one positive impression, and I'm talking through these four, five years back people and older lifespans that are no longer expected to think innovatively about production through such a positive environment that makes you kind of think alternatively create new, future development conditions. I'm especially stressing this because it's actually harder somewhere, somewhere easier to apply to all the branches of seduction, and so on to agriculture, no matter how much you think it might be difficult. Clearly, I am not talking about the biggest Croatian concerts, systems, therefore, which are absolutely today in a position to compete in European games, on the European market. But the wealth of Croatia and the wealth of Croatian economy are not only large and exclusive systems, and the politics of the agrarian Republic of Croatia is also tied to the small producer, so also to the cow, and to the calf, and taught by the experience of well-developed large, small European countries, but with highly developed agriculture, it gives me the right to create... future preconditions for development, and certainly I will support the law in amendments to the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79934	Thank you. Five replicas. First Mrs. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79935	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My friend Turk, you were talking about competitiveness. I can only say that you are a lucky man because you live in Zagreb County, and Zagreb County is certainly one of the most competitive counties in the Republic of Croatia, unlike some other counties and mayors that you can see on television all the time, but do nothing about it. You live in a county that has developed 11 brands in agriculture, the first in Croatia, and thanks to the development of these brands today small rural farms can live on agriculture and what you said can live on tourism, because they sell their products on the doorstep, these products are recognised as quality and customers are happy to come back for them. So you have both Portugazac and wishes... , you have Sir Dragec, if so, you have the ham Count, you have branded corn nuggets, although we know it in Sisak-Moslavina too very well to produce and cook. [[You don't understand.]] But therefore this shows one innovation, one sacrifice, one work, and it is no wonder that today Zagreb County is currently recording the biggest economic growth when we look at all the counties in the Republic of Croatia. I congratulate you on that, of course, because I believe that you, as mayors and mayors, have contributed to it, and those texts that went past last week, I think they were malicious, because I was in Zapresic and I see that your roads are good, I was there and I see that your schools are good, I see that you hold until rural development, until the survival of the Croatian village, it is not strange because the Government of the Republic of Croatia in these four years of its term only through the farm resort for the Croatian village in Zagreb County has secured 800 million kuna. When we add the support of Zagreb County, support for you who knowingly run municipalities and cities, then it is no wonder that today we have a successful Zagreb County, which is competitive, and I believe that Mrs. Mayor from Sisak-Moslavina County will look up to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79936	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79937	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You know, if I were to say all this, then they'd say that a man boasts from the county that's coming, so I'm glad that fellow Petyr said that, our clear neighbors. I would add to this that we know how to torture, we can make, we can offer, but God knows and invite guests, and just as Zagreb County is known for its hospitality, but it is also a feature of Croatia's entire hospitality, that our people are warm souls and open hearts, and that it is one of Croatia's assets. You know in our, in our neighborhoods, people come to us, people from the European Union come to us, and when they pass a part of Europe, part of the world, come to us in Croatia a good part of them say Turk I would like to live here. We don't have all the honey and milk, but that part of one human relationship is still something that absolutely we in our rooms can be proud of. And one more thing, clearly that the measures that are related to how... , but also to all other economies are moving strategically from the state, but its implementation depends on the people who work, and those who follow them, so clearly that if there is a good line and connection of the city, the county, the state plus the professional organisation farmer or some other branch of the economy, then there is a chance of success. [[You don't understand.]] We all try to make it better every day and these difficult economic conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79938	Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79939	On the trail of this participation, i.e. the participation of the local self-government team of fellow Turks just like this one of my experiences also as a man who comes from an area which one significant part participates in and lives right from agriculture, because in the area where I come from Vrgorec for those who don't know we have somewhere about 8 to 9 million cane only whether. So until now, the quantity is whether, others know it, too, the colleague of Boxes who was just talking about the rich area of the Bankland, especially... However, we certainly went far ahead of all of this, and competitiveness and quality are rising. [[You don't understand.]] This should again be said thanks to the support that has been going on in recent years, because when we look at only the programme for the last four years, we as a unit of local self-government, together with the county and with the support of clear whether the Ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, have come to the point that in the last four years seven hundred thousand new seedlings have been distributed, and not a little. Thus, there are entirely new varieties that mean whether one competitiveness is with imported wines that appear on our market. Today, not to list all the desert varieties available to our winery, but also to which they have and which, today, there are family farms on the market, we are competitive and recognizable and wider than the region of Dalmatia. However, there is one problem that I would, beyond that competitiveness, point out and say that maybe we should execute and all of us in local self-government units should deal with the issue of co-financing of cultural insurance in this insurance system that we have and we know below, which is 25%, I think you know what this is about. I think tomorrow with this law and support is whether we're going to do more and more, another step, but also with one sign of a shift and a step that we need to make in terms of solving property-legal relations. The obstacle of many of our farmers is to be competitive and therefore to improve and increase so-called numbers, but also to the quality of their products and cultures, unsettled property-legal relations. New cadastar measurements and new court books, i.e. solving property-legal relations will be what will certainly increase production, and then tomorrow and competitiveness in everything. And if you allow only one thing at the end, one of my suggestions, there's a secretary of state according to this law is whether, therefore, we give and support in the planting of strawberries because we're famous for that in Vrgorec, we as a unit of local self-government so we give 30 limes per see, so I would suggest that this is possible to introduce it in this three-year transitional period, if possible to predict and to go to state aid. I said if you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79940	You got it. And more importantly, suggest what Vrgorac is well-known for.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79941	And you mean this last decision of mine, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79942	Not that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79943	Are you referring to this last decision of seven thousand kunas?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79944	Not here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79945	Then what?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79946	It's the other one, which is famous by the way. What's a good one food, good food?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79947	It's a good meal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79948	You've got a coconut, you've got a coconut.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79949	There's popcorn, there's popcorn, there's popcorn.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79950	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79951	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, it seems to me that the most important colleague has said, and he said that there are good plantations in the vineyards. So, dear colleague, so maybe a little joke, you're even finding out that grapes can make wine if I'm not mistaken. But this comment of yours just returned me to competitiveness, which is education and education. It is true, both in my city and in the county, we subsidize crop insurance, or agricultural areas. Our farmers still do not decide to do so enough, so when it comes to both large and good subsidisation. So that's the absolute measure that we need. 'Cause when we're communicating with people, it doesn't seem like it's gonna make me feel like God doesn't have a job for me this year. Then it just happens that there was also this stake that should be in the insurance is actually minor in relation to the damages that occur, and given the subsidies that follow. And clearly, property relations, cadastre, land property is something that's a prerequisite, but not only will I say in agriculture, it's otherwise bound to the entire segment of life. So, if we are also talking about real estate, property as such, and in agriculture in particular, and it is clear that this new time that precisely comes from quality land books catastrian property creates also as certain preconditions in all those assumptions that need to be established today to be included in the support system as today, especially tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79952	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79953	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's a colleague you mentioned winemaking and the fact that it would be more necessary to encourage those small farmers who are involved in the production of wine and winemaking, not just concentrate and focus on large agricultural combinations. I agree with you completely, but what I want to point out is that in Dubrovnik County on the Peljesac peninsula and on the island of Korčula people simply recognized it, and thanks to all these incentives that the state has given over the years recognized that it can live well. You have only a hundred private small holdings, wineries, which are concerned with the production of high quality wines on Peljesac peninsula today, I would say the best. It's red wines, or black wine as we like to call it with – it's about Plavac small of grape varieties, but it's about different positions. So we also have Dingač and Postup, today and Plavac Mili etc. These people are really when you look at today this Pelješac he is completely different from that Pelješac 10 years ago with new plantations, with the fact that wine roads have also been established, with the fact that tourism directly communicates with these small economies and that they know what competitiveness really means. Because today the price of these wines is moving from, let's say, top-notch wines of 100, 110 kuna to 1,500 kuna. It is quite clear that it is very quality products that have their place on the market and the fact that it actually happened most thanks to all those incentives. And when you look at the landscape, it changes in a positive sense. In fact, everything that's happened before, before Communism, I would say, I dare say because it's a fact. Because before Communism, all those surfaces were really being processed. You today, when the pine forest burns, the pine tree is a debtor, when the pine forest behind that fire remains a drywall. It is evident that people have been working on these areas and have just grown vines and olives and all those agricultural cultures. So, really, people are coming back to the country today, seeing the perspective that's most important. And I would say that these last few years have actually given us this real foundation and, of course, what we're doing today will further strengthen them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79954	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79955	Thanks for the line. An esteemed colleague there is the point, to know how to make quality, but then to sell quality. And then I'll add and I've had the opportunity to visit this space and end in tourist tour, but what we have to continue to work on, and that's still going back to competitiveness plus education, when we come to the OPG, which offers food and drink, and then with our welcome, which is not missing and with me food absolutely goes to me too. So it ate one species, so the main dish is another species, and at the end of the day two, three boxes take home. When these effects are summed up, that's exactly why we're doing it, and that's why it's brought its full weight to the economy. And I have to admit that not only are we talking about agriculture as OPGs, we're talking about our top restaurants or catering facilities, but still that way of offering as such hasn't come to life and we just have to work on it and say the word education again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79956	Thank you very much. We have three more replicas. The first is the distinguished colleague Marija Buric Pejcinović, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79957	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's the look of the replicas that caused the presentation of fellow Turks, it looks like she and the wine veritas are really standing. Namely, viticulture and winemaking is an extremely important branch of Croatian economy. I would say really thanks to the efforts the Croatian government has been making for a number of years. We are in a position today to say what we hear from you, so extremely good results. To hear this from my colleague Matkovic, it always fascinates me when I drive on the road away from Vrgorec when you see that not only is it as fellow Matusic says to restore vineyards that have grown up somewhere, but it is being taken away from the rock from the debris of the land. And it is truly fantastic to see that even so, the Croatian man wants to restore to Croatia the position she should have, which is to brand with Croatian wines. We have excellent wines, it will never be produced in the quantity in which South Africa, Chile, etc., but everyone who understands wine says that we have excellent quality wines and that it is precisely one of our great opportunities to make it in niche in quality compared to the quantity precisely Croatia recognizable in the European frameworks and in the wines that we produce in Croatia. That's how it turned out again in the negotiations. In fact, we have come to the conclusion that indeed the vineyards, etc., could be restored in recent years, and planted new ones. It'll stop at a certain point. In fact, all the happiness of the EU has come to realize that this restrictive policy is not good because otherwise what is the lightmotive of your exposure to the competitiveness of European wines would be threatened by Croatians as well. So, after 2015 there will be no more restrictions on plantings, and therefore I believe that these good examples that we have in your county, but throughout Croatia I would say from south to north, from west to east, will show that Croatia is indeed a real wine and vineyard country. And finally, there is one envelope just for wine at the annual level in the negotiations is negotiated that 10.8m euros can be used per year for the wine sector, I think everything is in favour of this branch being extremely important to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79958	Thank you. The answer to the replica of a fellow Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79959	Thank you colleagues, in fact, for what you have said, there is nothing to add, and as much as we are particularly discussing this topic for half an hour, and it is related to one part to winemaking as an important branch of agriculture and viticulture always goes to the new idea there is no end, so again we are going back to education and I say that we must educate and offer therefore difficult work of winemaking, art in the basement, viticulture is a craft I dare say and winemaking is an art, add after that and bring guests from all over the world, but not only here to my... county, not only to the sea, but also to Međimurje and every beautiful part of our Croatian state and there is always something new you can do that last time you didn't, or I haven't said in your speech, and again to that education and to that community offer us people who live beautiful desires, affirmatively speaking... and beautiful songs, letters or upgrades in Croatia that we have a special section that we have to the Croatian people in our sport, i. Let's promote what's right, what's worth and what's nice and what we know, the others don't know, but if they know... anything that's nice should be reminded of.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79960	Thank you. The esteemed Sunday, Klaric, applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79961	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a fellow Turk you rightly point out and repeat both education and education, and just before you mentioned the sea. I would like you to know that the entire Croatian public is a chapter of fisheries and so far we have not talked about one of the best negotiated chapters, and I would also like to say thank you to the people of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development for opening up the doors to local and regional self-government units, as well as to scientific institutions, chambers and fishing associations, and all in the intention of fishing as one of the very important segments of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79962	Here's your answer, fellow Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79963	That just confirms my sentence from five minutes ago, when we say that we said everything again is a word behind it, so we say seas bound and fish. Now, I'm going back to a few nice hints, but I'm saying no more Turk about not accidentally saying something about us being equal to men and women, so I'm not going to talk about it, and I'm confirming what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79964	Thank you very much. A colleague of the Box reported on the replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79965	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Turk is pleased to have ladies in this debate, of course, like us men, since wine is an inspiration to them and to us. So it's not enough for the agriculture ministry to support us from local self-government either. You have mentioned education and competitiveness many times in your discussion and responses to the replica. So education is a prerequisite for competitiveness, I like to speak out of practice since I come from Zadar County, so we've been famous for good winemakers and bad winemakers so far. Since before the Homeland War, we had one single wine in the bottle, it was a Benkovac rose, however, today such a story is not. For St. Marina Competition in Polača, St. Vinka competition in Stankovci and summer in Benkovec. The result of these competitions, educations are now the first week in the 11th month of Sabatin a set of all winemakers, winemakers of Dalmatia in Zadar and Benkovec, of 300 wine samples in the process we have more than 1/3 from my county. The result of this education is a quality product and a competitive product.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79966	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of a fellow Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79967	Very short. Again in the spirit of this community and education, and this time when we talk about gender equality what I can witness when it comes to this kind of agricultural branch, especially winemaking and men and women, and especially women every day increasingly participate in those beautiful things that are related to... booking various wines, which may not even be common in other parts of Croatia,... if we go to Zagorje and to ourselves then our women are increasingly letting us enter the basements and more and more are leading the main word. I am saying this because this part of agricultural production and I dare say total beauty as such is unique and even part of it in Croats, but all of those young and old and ladies and gentlemen and I am glad that this topic has spurred this kind of debate but still ultimately related to our support from the government, which the government recognized when we are talking about precisely this topic of winemaking and winemaking and capital investment in the times that were and what it was ultimately and all the partners who said it today gave results.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79968	Thank you very much. We're continuing to discuss our distinguished colleague, Đurjica Sumrak, is on her way. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79969	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a quality debate about vineyarding, so maybe just before I start, I can see that nowhere has it been said that we actually have somewhere around 36,000 acres of planted vineyards. There were so many of them, but according to the chord, what's new is somewhere around 18,000 acres, so we have to say what this system of support has been for 5 years. But let me say in reality a few general words why that is. Agriculture is a strategic activity that contributes to the sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia with its economic, environmental and social role, and that is exactly the point of leadership. The objectives of such policy are the food security of the population that is being reconciled to a maximum extent to domestically competitive agricultural products, to promote the efficiency of production and marketing in agriculture in order to strengthen competitiveness on the domestic and world market, to enable an appropriate standard of living in rural areas and to contribute to the stability of agricultural income. Afterwards, enabling consumers, more accessible, suitable and more stable food offers, as well as prices according to their requirements, mainly regarding the price and quality of food and food and food and food, and then the conservation of natural resources, by promoting sustainable mainly organic agriculture and the preservation and progress of rural areas and rural values. It is important to say that according to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, a register in the agricultural holdings, therefore around 197,000 agricultural holdings were registered, incentivising about 85 thousand OPG, and in the tax system there were slightly more than 14,15 thousand. Why am I saying that? It's about making this equal law. About 150 thousand of these registered OPGs are economies with land, somewhere around 103 thousand economies receive various types of support, 16 thousand 300 are in support of income, it is still and retained support and is very important for our rural development and for our village, and 85,000 support are related to different agricultural activities. We have heard and witnessed this, all of us who, in reality, are in some way involved in the work of the village and are engaged in this agricultural policy that this government, and in particular one 5.6 years of significant support and agricultural policy, has indeed improved both the village and agriculture and farmers have begun to prepare themselves in reality for a new system of incentives to join the EU in different segments. Well, that's how it is, and my colleague Turk is talking about wine, but it's not just wine, it's all about everything else. Here's a colleague she said about dairy quotas, there's promotions and farms. So we may now have fewer producers of milk than 1 to 3 cows in the country, but we now have large farms with about to 100 thousand dairy cows and they are really arranged according to all the highest principles of the EU. I think that just visiting some that we have past different farms different our processing facilities which are here and according to the veterinary control over those in the EU. Well, here it is, my colleague Petir was talking about how much support financial support is needed in agriculture, of course this government knows it and this government has realized it with its coalition partners really gives strong support to the village and agriculture. And this year 4 billion as invested in support has not been thrown into the wind. We at the HDZ Club and HDZ representatives, of course, strongly support this policy of a gradual but continuous increase in the share of support and rural development in total support. In particular, the increase in the share and role of rural development measures paid annually to farmers under a relatively simple procedure and which are, in a way, complementary to and direct payments, thus strengthening their competitiveness. This bill clearly shows the direction in the planned sectoral envelopes for pre-accession years. This is particularly important because after entering, we are expected to have more money incomparably for rural development than we are currently able to separate from our own budget. In the fight for survival in conditions of economic difficulties, small economies will be helped by the provisions of the laws which reduce the mandatory number of dairy cows from 5 to 1 throat as a condition for the right to support. I have to say that it's a very good measure, here's how these small economies are preserved from decay. A certain increase in the maximum individual amounts for suckler cows as well as for sheep and goats but only within the framework of available funds will be welcome for our breeders who must catch up with competition and offer the market a quality and competitive product. It is good that this law monitors the trends in harmonisation of tax legislation under economic recovery measures, so the limit of income from support to agriculture as a reference for compulsory entry into the tax income system, or VAT, has been increased from 24 thousand to 48 thousand kuna, and of course we strongly support it and we are glad that this is the case. There are still more important in our court and necessary provisions in this bill. For example. The application of income support measures is also extended in 2012. This helps small OPGs who want to increase their incomes to determine whether they will increase their business size and commercialise or start dealing with additional activities outside agriculture. It is never easy to determine which line would be most appropriate in reality, but it seems to us a very good and logical explanation that this threshold is doubled in a similar way as the amount of income is doubled and then it is mandatory to join the VAT system from 85 to 170 thousand. What I would like to say is important for the local one for the counties is that they will be able to provide their support by 9 months 2012, and will then have to comply with the support they have in the EU, or in this law. Just before the speech, I would like to say about another branch of production that I think is unusually important for Croatia, and that is one branch where producers or farmers have prepared very well, which is beekeeping. At this point, we've got about 7000 beekeepers on the register and they've got about 407 hives. They're not all production hives, but they're produced about 7 to 8 thousand tons of honey a year. Here we are not just talking about that common honey, Croatia is famous, or most famous for having 23 types of honey. It's unique in the world. I don't know if any country in this respect is stronger than us. What I wanted to say was how the beekeepers prepared themselves. They prepared themselves so that they had already published good beekeeping practice. This is something that is very important when entering the European Union. And now there was a big world conference of beekeepers in Argentina where it was just presented, colleague Tomljanović, which is with surprise I must tell you accepted, but of course with approval because they did not hope that one Croatia, which means only in 2013 in the European Union, would already have good bee practice in that segment. And what is more, as beekeepers have prepared, is the National Programme of Beekeeping, which was built by 2014 through which they will be able to participate, of course, in some of the access or pre-accession funds. Well, of course we need to support this law because he's a driver of even more of our agriculture, and we know what that means, here's the show before me, and I'm sure my colleagues will keep talking about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79970	Thank you very much, colleague. We've registered three replicas. First, a distinguished colleague, Nevenka Majdenic, applied. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79971	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's for sure that we can all be satisfied here in the Parliament with everything that's been negotiated so with this area of agriculture. We can certainly be satisfied with all these laws that we have passed, and they are related to the development of agriculture and rural development. But today I would like to refer to what Mrs. Sumrak said today, namely that in Croatia there are 36,000 vineyards and 18,000 new vineyards, and it's really nice to hear and I as Slavonka must say that one part of these plantations in Slavonia, especially in Baranja where there are good, famous Baranja wines. I believe you've all had a chance to taste them. So these support made it possible for both Slavonia and Baranja to change what is typical, that production... wheat, grain, barley, but to go to other cultures, to develop vineyarding. [[You don't understand.]] And there are indeed many in Baranja, I would say those rural households that deal with tourism, use these products that are ecologically, cleanly healthy. And therefore I think that this is all that the Government has contributed to its proposals for laws adopted here in the Croatian Parliament has really helped Slavonia and Baranja to develop. We heard that the wine envelope is also about 10.8 billion euros. It's really big money. What is important to all of us and what we need to do, which is that we need to inform our citizens, so those who are also in rural areas that this money exists, to follow regulations, to follow changes because it is really important that they can be involved in time, so that they can prepare these projects. So support and this law, and I'm really glad that farmers have accepted a lot, that they will continue to accept, but I say with one really good information. And all those people who are here and in Parliament often speak against the law or are not here at all, really harm to all those who would take advantage of that money. We are tasked here to create a positive atmosphere, to inform people so that they become involved, and to make these significant resources that we will achieve, which we will be able to achieve from the European Union and to achieve.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79972	Thank you. Replication response, colleague of the twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79973	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Majdenic. I'm glad you just called from this area of our Slavonia and are talking about positive shifts. I'd just like to add a little bit more, and these are defense cooperatives. In 2004, when the current Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor, as minister, said that cooperatives should be established, which is also a tendency in the reality of association, most of them laughed, especially opposition. However, the president has been resilient since then, and since then, two 2004 cooperatives, today we have over 400 defence associations. It's the respectable production they have, and they also process and round the land, which is equally important. What is very much the same, they have understood all how to join the European Union, so all of their support they receive, but also the county and state, they are using in reality to prepare for entry into the European Union. So already over 500 tonnes of their products have an agreement with large manufacturing houses such as Konzum, such as Podravka, to be processed. Then what's even more important is branding, and that's what we're talking about, your Baranja wines, how they're branded and these products. These are not huge quantities may be branded, but they are therefore appreciated on the market and such a branded product always has its buyer who wants a delicacy. There's the same importance of the vision in all of it. And this government has indeed had a vision and has always supported what it means to advance and what it means to protect villages and agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79974	Thank you very much, colleague. The esteemed colleague Ivan Bagaric also applied for the replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79975	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I would say it was wonderful to listen to all our debates so far and yours, which were affirmative, which spoke of agriculture as a very important branch without which there is no stability in any country, in any society, which I would have said vitally for every country. Of course, she was especially beautiful about wine, and I'm particularly concerned because I'm celebrating St. Martin's birthday, therefore even more. But that's not why I answered. That's why I answered for something else. So it was wonderful to listen to what was wonderful in Croatia. I want to say that it's important to build trust, believe in optimism because I'm starting from the assumption that without a village, without agriculture, there's no stability, there's no well-being, there's no people. But also, without optimism and without faith, there are no villages or agriculture. And now in the end, I would end my line with a quote, often quoted by Mr. Skoke, a politologist and marketing expert, who said that an American told him. Everything I read about Croatia, and you write, you write it badly, and when I came to Croatia and when I saw Croatia, I wanted to live in Croatia. And all I've seen is beautiful and I'm leaving Croatia with the conviction that Croatia is a beautiful country. So we build vineyards and plantations and grow sheep and goats and cows, we have quality milk, but let us also have faith because without it there is nothing [[- Insect: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79976	Thank you. The answer to the replica of my colleague twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79977	Thank you. Here's my colleague, Bagaric, thank you very much for all this. I would add to this all you've said is the protection of indigenous, our breeds both in livestock and so on we go to vineyards and also to warfare. Well, for example, the other day we watched about our well, so we watched about the Istrian ox, so we watched and heard about the Zagorje turkey, then the ducks and so on. Importantly, it is important to protect the indigenous product because it is significant not only for ours and our genetics. That's what you as a doctor, and we as a doctor of veterinary medicine know very well what it means to preserve genetics, which means to preserve originality. That's our root. And what you said was all I would add with another quote from a lovely lady who spoke at a rally. I think she's the president of the Milk Association, and she said, "The power of the argument cannot challenge anything," and she also stressed "no power of our President, Mrs. Kosor, will be able to dispute anything, because she's done very much."
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79978	Thank you. And the third application of the replica, distinguished colleague Mariana Petir. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79979	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs. twilight, speaking of investments in agriculture, you mentioned what is actually very important, and perhaps not heard enough today. It's about food production. In fact, we invest this much in agriculture and because of people living in the Croatian village, but also because of agricultural production, because of food production, because self-sufficiency in food production is the cornerstone of each country's independence. Therefore, these investments, invested by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Ministry of Agriculture of 20 billion kuna, are not insignificant in agricultural production in Croatia in the last four years. They are important, and through these investments we see that precisely in these agricultural branches that we are talking about today we are making great progress. 197,000 farmers are registered in the register, and if we add this to their families, we will see that more than 500,000 people live in Croatia today from agriculture and agricultural production. They're not at the Employment Service, they're making their own products, they're hiring themselves, they're feeding their families and they're training their children. Of course, some live exclusively from agriculture, some being additional activity and an additional source of income. I can tell you this about ten days ago I visited winemakers from Ivanićgrad area. They are all employees in some other sectors, but they are further concerned with wine production. They have made great success here because they receive numerous recognitions for the quality of their wines and say that everything they produce can and sell. It's an additional source of income to their family and that's exactly what we insisted on when we introduced more support for agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79980	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of my colleague twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79981	Thank you, fellow Petyr, for these wonderful words. And I'd just like to say one more thing, remind myself of your one-time exposure to the family where you mentioned, of course, the woman in the country, the woman who owns all of this and the biggest food producer not only in Croatia but also in the world, and that's always in my mind when it comes to talking about it. What pleases me is that here we are, of course, and I'm glad that the children are here with us, that the family is really the center, that we don't have to be ashamed of the villages. Those of us who are born there should not be ashamed nor should we engage in agricultural production because it is an honorable profession. We should be ashamed of something else, that the work we've been paid to do is not done. Well, that's a shame. Today, thank God, it's not a shame to be a farmer, it's not a shame to work the country. And the state and this government with their coalition partners, especially here with the HSS, have invested a great deal in restoring the dignity of villages, farmers and being proud. Because today we see from the number of hectares they own to the equipment our economies have more tractors are not makeup, but a tractor is a means of working. The bigger it means that this farmer has more hectares to process. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79982	Thank you very much. We continue the debate, and our distinguished colleague, Frano Matušić, is on his way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79983	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So much has been said in this law, or amendments and additions to the Law. I'd like to point out a few facts regarding the law itself. Then I'd say something a little bit wider in the debate about otherwise agricultural policy,... Politics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it is absolutely certain that it is about amendments and amendments to the law that will actually ensure that in 2012 the way it expects us in the European Union, which is a sufficient sign that Croatia has already been prepared in this area, in fact, prepared for membership in the European Union. It was just before Mr. Secretary of State said that many of the countries that joined before us failed and did not go with us but only after entering or directly, so the month, two days before the entry into full membership only actually gained the ability to actually fully implement European policy in this area. And therefore we can freely say that the Croatian government has done an extraordinary job together with the negotiators who participated in the negotiations, and that should be made clear and loud. We have done a great job and the final result is that Croatia, as the secretary of state said elsewhere, is second to all the countries that have entered the European Union, so second to the level of payment and by capacity, so in relation to the number and everything that is the prerequisite for, to enter into this system of payments that is today and here. Therefore, the remarkable result is the achievement, and thanks to the fact that we have made a great deal of effort, and it has been achieved thanks to the fact that despite the difficult times that are fortunate for us, and these difficult times, of course, the global financial global crisis has maintained the level of support that no one in Croatia expected. Let's just say we clearly want to help farmers, we had a number of attacks precisely from our colleagues from the opposition who kept saying their strategists said we should reduce the subsidies to agriculture, which is why, etc., they said we should not invest in agriculture in their opinion, but this coalition clearly said we will not give up on our basic objectives, which is the strength of the agricultural sector, because we believe that this is a strategic issue for the Republic of Croatia and thanks to this fact, and this is concrete evidence therefore and in difficult times we have not given up on all those subsidies, from all the support given to farmers, who have been given to the agricultural sector, and we have simply shown to the clear, concrete evidence of what we think of agriculture as a strategic branch for the Republic of Croatia. Today, the fact that we have invested multiple times returns, as our farmers have also learned how to apply to European funds, how to apply and how to seek funds, not only directly in terms of the incentives they are now working through the state budget, but also how they are applied tomorrow to improve the conditions in which they operate and to obtain other technologies, new technologies that essentially mean that they will no longer be engaged only in basic production, for example cereals, but will also deal with the processing of these same cereals. Those who know how to get new technology, who know how to produce new products, of course, will benefit from it multiple times, because the difference is when you sell a kilo of wheat for one minimum price that can be achieved on the market, on a large market today to the global market, from when that same wheat... Let's say wheat flakes, so that's a 10 times higher price than a kilo of wheat itself. [[You don't understand.]] So only this fact of the processing industry that must be based on basic agricultural production speaks in favour of that being able to get the maximum benefit for the Republic of Croatia, above all for those who deal with agriculture, and in this sense agriculture is one of the most potential branches indeed in Croatia on which we can base development and economic growth, and that is what this government is aware of, and therefore we have kept all the incentives for agriculture and increased them in relation to what was from, to 2003 we have increased in several times, in fact we have increased all these incentives three times, and they will, of course, be good news for all farmers they have probably heard, but once again, by entering the European Union and that amount will increase by 50%. So what we have had so far will still be increased by entering the European Union, an additional 50% has been provided. The government has therefore done excellent work in this area, not only in this area, but generally in the negotiations. It should be noted once again for the Croatian public we had the hardest negotiations, no one negotiated as Croatia, no one had such conditions for opening and closing chapters as Croatia had, for the first time we had some negotiating chapters such as Chapter 23, so we did an extraordinary job. In this, we were prevented by our colleagues in the opposition, and we need to do so loud and clear again today, in a situation where we are waiting for the date of the accession negotiations, when we know with certainty that the European Parliament will adopt an accession agreement with Croatia on 1 December, so that in today's position we can freely say no one but us in the ruling coalition in March this year and in April of this year, no one believed that the Croatian Government could complete and do this responsible, demanding job, so that we could complete negotiations by the end of June. We achieved this thanks to this government, the coalition government and thanks to our president, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, who took the first most important step in unblocking the negotiations two years ago. So we need to make it clear that what happened in April this year was called consultations in the President's office due to the alleged crisis in society, it was wanted to go to early elections. When we had not closed several key chapters for the end of the negotiations in the 3rd and 4th months, the opposition leader, from Milanovic to Pusićki, etc., our colleagues and colleagues sitting in this House asked to disband the Parliament and call for early elections. At that moment with a very unspeakable end to the negotiations for the Republic of Croatia. I think that the Croatian public today should be clearly told what their political attempts were to prevent the Croatian government from completing a chapter that is of really national, strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia, which is the conclusion of negotiations with the European Union and full membership in the European Union. It is absolutely certain that this framework guarantees not only farmers, not only agriculture, which we are talking about here today, based on this law, these amendments and the addition of this Encouragement Act, so it is absolutely certain that this framework of the European Union guarantees a new, new power, a new potential and, of course, a new market of 500 million people in which we will absolutely be able to show ourselves in the best possible light. Now I'm going to go back to what I was just talking about, and that's a question of some branches of agriculture that are extremely important, which are based on our culture, which are based not only on our culture, but on general civilizations, which is vineyarding and it's olive growing. Just the last few years, thanks to these incentives that I am talking about, behind which we have stood firmly in the ruling coalition, thanks to these incentives, these two cultures have received a completely new dimension in the economy, so the Republic of Croatia, but also outside Croatia, because these products are truly top quality. We have a God-given country, we have a God-given country in which, as Mr. Bagarić said, an extremely nice life, and they recognize and know all those who come to Croatia every year, and not a small number is coming, they come 2 and a half times more than they live in Croatia, there comes 11 million tourists every year coming to Croatia, this year was the best season since they remember the season, so those who confirm that Croatia is indeed a country in which it is beautiful to live, but these two cultures of winemaking and olive growing, of course, open one great perspective for further development on the European market, because we can't really mate with quantity, not French wines, nor Chilean wines, nor South African, Australia, etc., but by quality, our wines are really at the top of quality. Here's a recent example, I was in the White monastery a few days ago, I was in, I visited a new winery that Belje has, there truly fascinatingly, their wine Merlot is among the 100 best wines on the decanter declared. So with that we can absolutely compete, we need a good brand, we have fantastic varieties, we know and fortunately today we are much better cellars than we were in history. Because the fact that Philip de Diversis was still a few centuries ago in a tour of Dalmatia wrote that we were great winemakers, but bad winemakers. Fortunately, technology and knowledge has been accepted in the meantime and today we are truly remarkable and winemakers and winemakers, but we are also excellent olive grovers. Unfortunately, the time has run out.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79984	Thank you very much. And now it's a few replicas to this debate. The first came from a distinguished colleague, Marija Buric Pejcinovic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79985	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's fellow Matusic, you said there were voices calling for a reduction in agricultural investment. It wouldn't have been good if it had happened that way and I think great wisdom has been exactly the opposite direction to go these past years. Because Croatia except for having structural problems and having structural problems in agriculture had both war and poverty. And I don't think you should forget that. So Croatia has relatively late entered these processes of change that are needed in agricultural production, but this is the kind of production that can never be left behind without support. That it is thus shown by the EU's policy which is precisely investing half its budget in the area of agriculture. So this could certainly be done would have been done by countries like France and other large giants in the area of agricultural production long ago. I think it should again be pointed out that in the negotiations, the Croatian government, although there was a lot of skepticism given the burden of the problems of this particular area, has managed to negotiate extremely good conditions in terms of transitional periods. Namely, you are not going after it, sooner or later you have to come to a level of competitiveness. That's what we heard from fellow Turks. But in order to achieve competitiveness, in order not to kill agriculture before it gets a chance to be competitive, it must be approached to give Croatian agriculture and farmers and rural areas in general. And I think that this opportunity has been excellently provided in the area of negotiations when, for example, for the purpose of obtaining incentives by 2017, it has succeeded in negotiating that they do not have to meet all the conditions of good agricultural production until the end of 2017 just so that Croatian farmers can meet the standards in this area in time, so from now until 2017. I think there are a lot more areas to talk about. I welcome your debate in the field of olive growing, I think it is another important branch of Croatian agriculture. There was a lot of talk about viticulture. In fact, when we started negotiations, then Franz Fischer was a longtime agriculture minister in Austria and the agriculture commissioner as one key question asked what do you want to see from Croatian agriculture for 15 years? So, on this very trail, the Croatian government has worked both in the area of winemaking and in the field of olive industry, and I think it is extremely good, and it is not and will not happen because of what happened to Greece, so the country that has been given great incentives and great support for 30 years, and that in fact, the country that has virtually no more olive growing and largely no more vineyarding. I think that in Croatia it is very clear that it will not happen with this good policy and negotiations in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79986	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79987	I agree with my colleagues completely with you and it is true that Greece has a problem because of the non-transparent spending of these same incentives. Croatia has absolutely established such a system that it will be a very transparent spending of incentives and that it will be very clear where and why these incentives have been spent, precisely this system and we are building through these amendments and additions to this law. As for olivery, I didn't talk much about it, I just touched it, but I agree with you that it's really a branch that is extremely, extremely important. It is also important for the health of the nation because olive oil is the extra virgin quality of the most quality oil that can exist and it is really healing. It's healing. We unfortunately use it in our daily life, Croatia unfortunately does not use it to the extent that some other EU member states use it, but I am sure that it will change in time, that these habits in food and in nutrition will change, and that indeed olive oil will be found much more often, therefore, as spices in our meals. Because really extra virgin oil that we have in Croatia collects all the awards in international competitions. Istria has made a huge step there. Istria has introduced the first technology and knowledge in the processing of olives and in the production of extra virgin olive oil, and today you have a situation to sell some Istrian family economies in retail one decilitre of olive oil at the price of 70 kuna. Which means a liter of such olive oil comes 700 kuna. It is clear that it is an extra quality that has its own market not only in Croatia but also in the world. And indeed all praise. And I can say that I am both a witness and that in our county there is indeed a large number of surfaces that are under the olives and that we already have extraordinary results. Of course, this part of branding is missing, but I am convinced that in the coming years thanks to the support provided by both the County of Dubrovnik-Neretva and the municipalities that are parent and, of course, thanks to the state that branding and all that is needed to get out quality on the market will be more successful.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79988	Thank you. A colleague of Dubravka Schuica, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79989	So here's a colleague of yours, with your debate, you encouraged me especially with this last part of olive growing and these two cultures, olive growing and winemaking, which have gained a new dimension. Imagine the situation 15, 20, 25 years ago when we're from Dubrovnik, and in the area where olives can grow well, we took a boat to Bara to buy olive oil, there was no olive oil. I think that's one piece of information that says how big the role of incentives is, how big is the role of the Croatian government in encouraging these branches of agriculture. I think it's one fragrant piece of information for me. Kids today don't believe it was like that. So one great one we've accomplished in this development. When we talk about competitiveness, however, it is difficult to be competitive in terms of quantity. We are aware of that when we speak of wine. It's hard to be competitive with Australia, Chile and South Africa, but with quality as you said it yourself, we can and we must. I say, I repeat, there is a great role of the Croatian government, after these 4 billion kunas that we invested only in 2010, and now we're talking about 6 billion kunas, so you're doubled the contributions we're going to get over the next 3.4 years. I think it's a very large amount, and I believe our farmers will know how to deal with all these resources. What is important in this law is that it is gradual, so that the date of 30 September 2012 is very important so that all small farmers, small farmers and small economies can adapt to these new conditions and I think that this is a very important data that we have today in this Law and I believe that this will help 16 thousand small economies as many as there are 20 thousand maybe more people involved in these small economies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79990	Replicate response, Comrade Matušić, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79991	I thank you, you're right colleagues, so a lot of things besides the olive oil of extra vergin quality we didn't have much before 20 to 90 years ago there was a lot missing in the former community where Croatia was, but the fact is that the worst thing is that this system is a totalitarian, criminal, communist regime that actually destroyed, destroyed both the village and agriculture. We remember those creations of factories that didn't serve anything except to drive people out of the village to take away their land, etc., who didn't have their function. When you came back 20 years and over then we just remembered in the '80s that there was a couple of odds, that there were power cuts every day, that there was no coffee, there was no bananas could be bought in the store, some talk about cod, etc. So, Croatia really lived in a closed system that was already at the beginning of the 1980s it completely failed not to talk about the devaluations that were daily, the 70% devaluations in one day. Where bills are printed in the amount of a few million, a hundred million of some dinars that weren't worth anything. This return to this system was meant to remind young generations just that it happened not to happen by chance, but I am convinced that it will not because today we are a solid democratic country that is developing on the right foundations its democracy but is developing and what is important for agriculture because really without olive growing and viticulture it is impossible to imagine further development so... the tourism sector is precisely in the field of Dalmatia and in fact the entire coast and in this sense these are the fundamental branches that can very well intertwine with tourism, so all of these are available today and these resources are already being used and quite certain to bring multiple root.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79992	Replica co-worker Kruno Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79993	So here is colleague Matušić, we know that the state is the owner of large areas of the agricultural land and that the country comes into function to give also large areas to cities and municipalities, which then the municipalities further distributed through competitions not only using them for working areas needed but also for incentives to farmers, i.e. farmers can process larger areas of land. Among them are Croatian defenders in the largest case. Therefore, they are the most numerous concessionaries of state, municipal and city states, and by not passing this law they would be in grave danger. It should be noted that a number of cooperatives, more than 100 cooperatives, may have more defences, produce very high quality recognizable products and in fact recapitalism has proved that SDP and HNS have not only been against defenders since 2000 and 2003 but continue the same policy today, because by obstructing this law by not passing laws and non-judgment in the debate and thus by encouraging the law to be adopted because it is for the benefit of all, they are just going directly against the defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79994	Thank you for your response to the replica of colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79995	Well, you're right. I'll fill you in on the part where you talked about 100 defense cooperatives. In Croatia, there are 3200 defenders who do so through cooperatives, they deal with various areas of production and it is certainly a much larger number than 100 when it comes to agriculture, and, of course, this will significantly open up space for them to a better perspective and perspective of these cooperatives and better lives, of course, to themselves dealing with the area of agriculture. I think it's quite clear, here even in the strategy, or pre-election programme that Mr. Greek has presented, they're talking about actually changing the incentive system by keeping in mind what they've been up to now, it's a reduction of incentives. So, quite clearly, that is the difference between us and them, we are firmly behind certain programmes that we consider to be strategic national interests and they simply have no policy or have a negative policy according to these national interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79996	Thank you. Dear colleague Ivanka Roksandić answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79997	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Matušić, today, we have heard really valuable data about what these incentives have done to our village and our farmers, how many new vineyard plantations, orchards how much growing, olive growing, livestock farming, how much our peasants have gone to some new products that have started to produce that have not been recognized in certain areas before, and you have mentioned colleagues from the opposition. By listening to today all these valuable results and what this Law has passed and what this Law is about to pass, I must truly express my regret that today my colleague is not here, you said and you have braked the negotiations yourself, they have braked and they wanted to reduce these incentives. Speaking of this important topic, we must warn the Croatian public what can happen, God forbid they succeed and I believe they will not. It is easy to share in the stands of the Kukuriku coalition of apples, but the apple needs to be pawned for its manufacturer. It should be noted that as best as possible, the conditions of apple production, the storage of apples are created, not shared as a finished product. This government has shown, this coalition government several of you have said today what this support means and this law means, here's an example of my county. In the last four years of 2 and a half billion total funding from the state budget, just over 2 and 5 billion invested in Sisak-Moslavina County nearly 700 million, so one third of the money went for different agricultural incentives. If we add to this the infrastructure resources that are also very important in our villages, which is important to our producer, then you can see how important the contribution of this coalition government is to the development of agriculture. What they do not have here today is that the Croatian public must know everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79998	Reply to the replica of counterpart Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u79999	I agree, colleague... completely. I am convinced that those who are following this debate and those who are engaged in agriculture are aware that Croatia's entry into the EU actually creates a prerequisite for them for the full development of a smooth and better future and that they will know how to use it. After all, they have already mentioned here I think that colleague Pejcinovic-Buric mentioned the fact that almost 50% of the EU budget, or the European Parliament in which they vote refers to agriculture. And it's absolutely certain that farmers who deal with this branch of the economy have to do everything to do in that part of that budget that's really very generous, because I think that budget is somewhere over 120 billion euros in total, now that you think it's almost 50%, then it's clear what the amounts are and what opportunities it is for farmers and in that sense. We have spoken to representatives of Poland precisely that some of their farmers who have pointed out in the withdrawal of funds and ways they do, and the vast majority have absolutely done so in the best possible way, that with their experiences they also help our farmers and there we have started one cooperation. And our mayors were recently visiting Poland just to share those experiences, and in that sense I think it's precious. But it should be said that there are farmers in Croatia who can make good use of these incentives and who have made good use of them. So I remember this one farmer who talked about it, I don't know, he recently bought a tractor worth 300 thousand euros, so he invested in production, he processes huge areas and, of course, he has a huge profit and he knows how to make good use of it and of course he employs other people as well. But the problem is that it occurs in certain areas at the time of harvesting that it is difficult to find labour force that is one problem to talk about, at the time when we have unemployment on the stock market at the same time the workforce at the price of 200 kn, daily 200 kn, plus paid meals, plus even some travel expenses. So it's almost incredible that there's no interest in such well-paid journals and that it would participate in harvesting specifically Mandarin, vines etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80000	Dear counterpart Boro Grubisic reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80001	Thank you very much. You are obviously convinced that there is no one here from the opposition, and yet there is. Well, then you are. ... The praises you so sang ideologically and demagoguely about agriculture and then the oil in Bari olive oil go to Bari, and now you don't have to go for oil in Bari. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's on the shelves of all trade chains and department stores. That's what you've achieved, so the oil from Bari comes to Croatia so you don't have to go after him, Mrs. Shuica, but first I'll talk to Mr. Matusic. You were talking about the incentive system, so do you know how these incentives go, and how does the inspection or control of the spending on incentives go? Let's tell a big owner to say so, which, through a policy of similarity, belongs to the parties to the HDZ, HSS, etc. has reached a thousand hectares of land or been for sale a lease or concession without hiring a single worker other than possibly a family. This is the problem of Croatian agriculture. Secondly, you spoke of incentives in the EU, so Minister Cobankovic, your minister, give me a disabling if I speak falsely, said that the incentive for wheat in the EU will be 750 kuna, three times less than it is now. And what are you talking about then? The bloom of Croatian agriculture. Well, you're gravediggers of Croatian agriculture together with your coalition partners. Look at Slavonia, look at Đakovština, look at Jasinje Slavonski, look at the Sushinica in Vrpolje. So where are the food processing facilities in Slavonia and Baranja?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80002	Thank you, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80003	Where does the industry go from Ilock to Vrbovac, except now White at the latest? There's not a single big slaughterhouse from Ilock to Vrbovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80004	Thank you, colleague Grubisic, for being a replicator, by the way of what was a debate, and you have bypassed that in many of these situations you have called some others, and it was your people who were supposed to be there, not with the boards on the road, but with programs at the door where the money was being shared.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80005	Someone's got to be here, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80006	It's supposed to be there, yeah, but it's supposed to be there too, you know. ... We know that you followed them. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The fuel's obviously gone or the sponsors are gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80007	What is this? Will you let me talk? I didn't bother you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80008	Here you go, Mr. Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80009	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you got it all wrong. I don't know why you're so frustrated and what your frustration is, but I'll tell you your next colleague. When we talked about having to go for olive oil we talked about the fact that it was not produced in Croatia quality olive oil. Today it's also being produced in our county, that's what my colleague Shuica was talking about. Today it is produced on the island of Korčula, both Mljet and Pelješac, and in Konavla, and in the Primorje of Dubrovnik, today it is produced. They produce people who have seen their perspective in agriculture. I don't know why you can't accept the fact that... responsibilities on you in the local community and in the county and in the city where you rule and in which you took responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80010	That's the best county.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80011	What is this? So don't act like a hooligan, don't act like the last hooligan, so let me speak. Don't act like one. So you have had the opportunity and you have the opportunity to make it clear to these people in which they can take advantage of all the potentials available to them and provided by this Government of the Republic of Croatia. If there are abuses somewhere, simply report those abuses to competent state institutions, but don't criminalize the entire state and say something that doesn't stand. And finally, if you had at least one of the men who was equally or at least nearly as capable as that Mr. Cobankovic otherwise would have looked your party.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80012	Thank you. An esteemed colleague, Marijana Petir, appeared in the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80013	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Matusic, I would like to refer to the part where you have problems with politics as such, especially with regard to negotiations. First of all, each of us needs to go away from our own personal responsibilities. We're discussing a very important law here today, and I've heard in the halls of people who aren't here in the hall say it's actually inadmissible for us to discuss such an important law while they're gone. I find it inadmissible that someone is taking a salary for a job that is not working and instead of being here and discussing the future of Croatian agriculture is hiding in some halls or not even in these halls but elsewhere. But personal responsibility is a prerequisite for someone to have a national responsibility. I'm very glad that I belong to a 107-year-old party who has witnessed her national responsibility for all those 107 years, sometimes because of that she got on her back, sometimes we didn't have an understanding, we weren't understood, sometimes we were punished. Many of our leaders have indeed been killed, some have been killed in Belgrade, some have ended up in a camp, and that is probably the responsibility the HSS beares, which has also been painted by today's leaders and leaders from the HSS. That's what I'm saying for that reason, and I'm replicating you in the part where you talked about the conclusion of the negotiations. Yes, it is true that you said that Mrs Kosor had indeed taken off the blockades that were imposed on Croatia because there was enough wisdom and strength to do so. But let me remind you, that there was no HSS as a coalition partner, while others were thinking about how to reconstruct, how to go to another ship that seemed more stable to them, the HSS was there and enabled both Mrs Kosor and HDZ as a coalition partner to overcome difficulties and end negotiations. So here I think it is important to say here today when we are discussing Croatian agriculture, the future of Croatian agriculture, because neither these financial envelopes would be negotiated nor a ban would be imposed on the sale of land, agricultural countries to foreigners for 12 years, nor today much would seem like what the HSS did not make. I think it is important to say this here in the Croatian Parliament today, in the year when Croatia expects to sign a contract for Croatia's accession to the European Union, in the year when the HSS as a democratic party celebrates 107 years of its existence.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80014	Replication response, colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80015	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on the long tradition of the existence of the Croatian Peasant Party, it is indeed something to be congratulated on. HDZ was created the moment the Croatian state was created and when the actual formation was banned, when we illegally created municipal committees, so last night we celebrated the 22nd anniversary of our branch in Ploča, in fact the first municipal committee in the Republic of Croatia, and this municipal committee was formed incognito, so they were not allowed to perform publicly, they were not allowed to present themselves publicly. In 1989, as in Jarun when the Croatian Democratic Community was created, we were not allowed to speak freely, feel free to think and express our thoughts in public. It was forbidden, so because it was the holiday of St. Luke's Day, they actually created a municipal board in the Plocas, and so the party set out in its formation on the municipal committees. As far as our cooperation is concerned, we in HDZ really highlight this cooperation as a positive example of cooperation, i.e. we are also sister parties because we belong together to the European People's Party and are involved in the work of the European People's Party. I am sure that this cooperation will continue to produce excellent fruit for the Republic of Croatia and that, together and in the European Union tomorrow, when we become a full member, we will give our contribution to our quality, we will give the European Union, that in this way we will build a better society, not only in Croatia, as we have done all these years, but also in the European Union. It is therefore absolutely certain that the policy promoted jointly by this coalition is absolutely good and favourable for the Croatian village, for the development of all areas in the Republic of Croatia, for even development and that we will insist on it in the future. I'm sure the ones we're talking about today will certainly recognize that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80016	Thank you. We're moving on with the debate. It's time for your dear colleague... I didn't see it, but I believe your word. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, comrade twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80017	Thank you very much. Well, here's the thing. I answered the phone, but probably not the gentleman. Comrade Matušić, I wanted to join your debate, and the replica was very much, and I wanted to say what it means in reality in all of this, the mayors and the mayors of the area, especially those in the rural area. I'd like to name one Lovas, Lovas, in Vukovar-Srijem County. For example, he may be an example. A colleague of Vinkovic's. That village after the war was destroyed. When they returned to the village, they found 90 graves, and today they belong to the most beautifully decorated village, the most developed village, where they live beautifully and pleasantly. They also have international co-operation established business zones, developed agriculture, preparing for Europe in a way that appears in pre-accession programmes. It means having someone who takes care of you and who loves you. Next thing you know, I'm talking about colleagues that aren't there. The truth is, they are ashamed of the villages and so there is no colleague Matušić. But it's embarrassing, I've already said it, it's not a shame to be a farmer and deal with agriculture, but it's a shame to get paid for what you don't work for. And I'd say, at this point when they're not in the hall sitting in their halls, sitting in their rooms, spending phones on a government account, papers on a government account, all for some of their own private purposes instead of talking about such an important topic today. And she said nicely to her colleague, Petyr, and everyone else, this is a subject that needs to be interested in everything, and on this, I'm not afraid, they're not going to build their points on any political one. But people would wonder what they're doing if they say they're in the assembly, not sitting. So remember, they spend state money on all these supplies they use not for the purpose of what's on the subject today.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80018	Thank you, comrade twilight. Reply to the replica of counterpart Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80019	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues, I agree with you. To work in the European Parliament, those who do not come to their jobs are denied the salary. And I think we simply have to apply it in the Croatian Parliament. Because it is unacceptable for those who have been paid to sit there, to debate and to express their political views, the attitudes of those who represent them who have given them confidence not to do their job. We can tolerate individual political parties at some point perhaps as an expression of their political struggle and leaving the assembly. It's also a legal way of working political parties. But it's not permanent. It's not all the time. Indeed, in political practice, this is certainly not recorded in this way to boycott the work of a parliamentary so-called institution that is the legislative body and the Croatian Parliament in this case. And you really need to think about how to actually sanction those who don't come to work. If workers can be sanctioned, if all those who do their job can be sanctioned and if they do not work properly, if they do not come to work, if for unwarranted reasons then of course they should also be sanctioned by those who receive salaries in the Assembly and do not come to work. And without this boycott, the fact is that without this boycott they're talking about, there's only ten to fifteen parliamentary deputies sitting on that side. You have some fellow MPs who may have been in the assembly three times since the start of the term of office. So it's not a question of whether they're boycotting for political reasons. That has nothing to do with it. They just don't work, they don't come to work. They have the status of a parliamentary representative. Unfortunately, they bring down the Croatian Parliament institution in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80020	Thank you. Comrade Buric, here's your breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80021	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Rules of Procedure of Article 209 have been injured. It's being discussed here, replicating something that's not at all part of the agenda. Therefore, when you talk about the need to sanction those who do not come here to the Parliament meetings, then you should talk about the necessity of sanctioning also representatives in the Croatian Parliament who are their sitting but by doing nothing to prevent the unprecedented robbery of Croatian peoples, Croatian citizens and should also sanction those who sat... who were blindly looking and keeping their chair to be... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80022	I don't know what was hurt or what was fixed. But okay. I appeal we stick to as many topics as possible. Let's not throw ourselves away, let's not be offended. And it's time for the debate, dear colleague Davor Huška. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80023	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here I will try to stay on the law we are discussing today and say that this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development is essentially the final alignment of our support with Europe in the pre-accession period. It includes the results of all negotiations related to 11. Chapter – Agriculture and rural development, and by all accounts these negotiations were extremely successful, enabling good prospects for our agricultural producers, users of different support. It can be said that this Law is the largest possible framework for the next two years, meaning for 2012 as well as for 2013 which will be the first year of full Croatia's membership in the European Union. And what brings us time in 2013. Or after Croatia enters the European Union? It brings us, as we have heard, a generous financial envelope, a 373m-euro financial package of the European Union, which is an annual limit for direct payments. 9.6m euros for the demining of processed agricultural areas and 333m support for rural development, which is increased by 20 to 25% after the second year of membership in 2014 from the national budget as mandatory subsidisation. This is twice as much as in other countries, new members of the European Union and more than 5 billion a year, which is far more than we have today to support agriculture and rural development. We know that they amount to about 3 billion and 900 million kuna, which is not reduced and what is significant in view of the crisis that our country is in. When we talk about these funds, is it as a resident of Western Slavonia who is still struggling with untapped agricultural and other areas particularly interesting to me that 9.6 million funds will be approved precisely for the demining of processed surfaces, huge working surfaces which are one of the great potential for agricultural production not only for me in western Slavonia in the area of my city, but for all of ours? And this represents one potential for agricultural production especially for organic production which assumes that the land rests for a certain number of years, as a prerequisite for organic production, and unfortunately our land thanks to mine suspected areas here in some parts of Croatia rests for more than 20 years. So, from the beginning of the Homeland War. I believe that this really is an interesting and important amount and I believe that in the coming years we will solve the problem of mine suspected areas in the first place of those important for housing, and secondly, extremely important farmland as one great potential. I would say something from the point of view of the users of these potential support in the area of agriculture and rural development where I see agricultural producers as one group. So, exclusively and mostly the largest part for agricultural support, and as a second group of units of local, regional self-government as mainly potential beneficiaries of rural development support. The question is raised with this first group of agricultural producers whether they are ready to withdraw these huge funds that we see far greater than we have in our national budget today, according to a methodology that is far more complex and complex than today agricultural producers are part of the support for agriculture in our state budget. I believe that, to the most extent, they are prepared because of the implementation of a whole series of educations where farmers are trained to prepare projects, run for and withdraw funds from the European Union funds already today, and a good example was the SAPHAARD programme where we had one good training all together to prepare projects to withdraw funds and, of course, there are those who can't, they don't know how to withdraw the funds themselves from a well-organised institutional support that through supporting institutions, and here I mean at the level of the county and region of the development regional agency at the level of cities and municipalities, and, of course, they are private consultants who are also preparing programmes and which farmers can engage in this story on the preparation of projects. There is another question here, and this is whether this assumption will be in the future and the condition that the complete project will be financed in advance, that the successful implemented project programme will withdraw funds from the European Union's access funds, which is one restriction to our farmers, one obstacle, because of the fact that no one has enough money to fully invest, the complete project is being financed, so that after that, it refunds them from the European Union funds, but there is a good solution, and here one day I attended the presentation of the credit lines of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development where the opportunities for these needs and agricultural producers are presented, and the units of local self-government, where they can bridge through the favourable loans of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and this period of project realisation, and until the final withdrawal of funds from the European Union's access funds, I say through favourable loans, through the relatively simple means of local funding, which are necessary to help us to achieve these funds. Other potential users of these rural development support are largely local self-government units, and here they can say a few words, and here as head of a local self-government unit that has good experience in withdrawing funds from pre-accession funds, here is not so long ago the town of Pakrac has received another program from the IPA business infrastructure where we have received more than 1 million euros of funding for implementing a programme that has been positively assessed in the IPA programme, which is only one in a series of 15 programmes that we have successfully run in the last two, three years, wrote and I believe that it will be successfully implemented as well as these previous programmes in our city, and beyond. Local self-government units as users mean support for rural development are being used and will use more and more of these support under conditions prescribed by the European Union. We had a real chance from CARDS, to PHARE, to IPA to learn a lot, who was willing to invest in people, in education, in entrepreneurship centres, in development agencies, that was really able to create in these last few years a team that knows how to write a program, run a program, withdraw funds, and implement, realize, means a program entirely to the welfare of the community in which they live. But here I see two moments where we need to pay attention, perhaps not in our city where we have created a good institutional support, but in other smaller municipalities and cities, and even in our county, unfortunately, the capital of the county has no experience with the European Union's resources and the question is when they will have them while this power is in Požega, to help them in a certain way, means that employees of local self-government units are being trained to prepare projects, to use the possibility of using the services of supporting institutions that exist, an example of our business centre doing 11 years in Pakrac has a really good experience and we are ready to help others, there are such centres thanking God more and more in Croatia. The second is the issue which opens the obligation to co-finance a certain percentage in individual projects that must be bridged, or financed by a local self-government unit. Here we are in a situation where, given the small fiscal capacity, smaller urban and municipal budgets are not able to monitor the co-financing of the European Union programme by their means, because today we are in a position to provide 200 000 euros in the next two years to monitor this IPA that is approved, and this simply leads to a blockade of the complete functioning of the city budget if we do not find the funds elsewhere. There is no point in firing 5 aunts in kindergarten, so with these funds then fund, co-finance European Union programmes, we simply have to think in two ways, either go into credit or go with one proposal to set up a financial fund at the state level to help units of local self-government with less fiscal capacity not to lose the programmes they are granted because they cannot provide the funds needed to co-finance these programmes. I think it's an important programme, I'm talking a lot to my colleagues, the mayors, we're all a little bit on this one obstacle, and here's the idea of thinking about one such fund at the level of the state that would help units of local self-government less fiscal capacity, of course in the war of the affected areas, areas of special state concern, not to be left without these generous funds, the grants of the European Union, because they can't secure a share of 10, 20 or 25%. Of course, I support the adoption of this law, and I believe that it will continue to develop Croatia evenly and will help the Croatian village move in an even better direction towards the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80024	Thank you very much. It is 13 and 30, so we will take a break, as usual, because we have registered at your hearing 8 replicas and that Susana Bilić Vardić, Franjo Lucić, Boro Grubišić, Nevenka Marinović, Đurdjica Sumrak, Stjepan Milinković, Marija Burić Pejcinović, Neda Klarić, your colleague Huška, please answer your questions. So we will continue with these replicas, after which Šima Djurdjevic will debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80025	Resume session. Replica, Madam Representative Susana Bilić Vardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80026	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, unfortunately, counterpart Huška is not present here, but his debate as well as the debate of most colleagues and colleagues contained the fact to be pointed out, which is the success of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the negotiations in Chapter 11. – Agriculture and rural development seen in the negotiated most favourable funding conditions for our farmers compared to other countries that have entered the EU. And I think that should be repeated to the Croatian public and Croatian citizens and, above all, farmers. And if that were the case, here, and that's why I volunteered for the replica, I'm going to make an example of the owner of one of the sugars in the Republic of Croatia, and we know that there are 3. Mr. Zadro, owner of sugar in the county who honestly admitted when there were talks on production quotas and export quotas for sugar that at the beginning he was not satisfied with the quotas achieved, but when he came out, when he talked to colleagues who asked him how and how the Republic of Croatia managed to get such high quotas at the end he finally realized and recognised it at a public meeting, in public place and Minister Cobankovic and Croatian Prime Ministers Mrs. Kosor that the Croatian government had done an excellent job. Otherwise, in the morning debate, a lot has been said about cultures, olives, oil, wine vines and wine, but I think it should be said that my colleague Huška and I are from Slavonia, Požega-slavonska and Brodo-Posavina County, in Slavonia there is sugar, or sugars that are the most important export domestic agricultural product. And speaking of all the successes of the Croatian government, I must take this opportunity and say, to convey to the Croatian public what Mr. Zadar said – measures of economic recovery by the government of the Republic of Croatia have helped him in the following way: in this year only on savings on the gas 25 million kuna that he saved on the government's decision to reduce gas for the economy, gas prices for the economy, he invested them in an increase in the ransom price to his sugar-tail co-operatives and instead of 250 per tonne gave 300 kuna to the co-operatives. Which is also a confirmation and proof that here is with the successes that we have made in the negotiations that the measures of the economic recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia deliver results. Thank you very much. And I apologize, Mr. Vice President... [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80027	Oh, nothing went out. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, replica. He's gone. Ms. Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80028	Thank you, Vice President. Here is my colleague, Huška, mentioned the mined agricultural land, and I would like to point out here that this is exactly the minimal agricultural land potential and for organic production, and I believe it is good that this budgetary framework has been established for rural development measures that are complemented by direct payments because these are payments precisely for this ecologically integrated production, and I also want, for example, the Zadar County, meaning organic production in Zadar County, to show that one part of that mined area after mine release is extremely well used for organic production. So the organic production register is registered in Zadar County 41 manufacturers on significant surfaces, that we have the first organic olive oil produced on Long Island. As for olive growing, we have 10 producers, many olive groves are raised in a pre-cleaned area of mines, that we also have the first organic wine in the Zadar County area of Nadina, that we have large areas under which the feeding plant is also in the function of milk production, means organic production of figs, vegetables, but we also have goats and others. I want to point out these exports, meaning through the tourism consumption our producers recognize and use to get better financial effects. But the success of organic production is not only measured in kilograms or tonnes produced, but I also want to point to a contribution to the conservation of natural values, i.e. the wealth of the Republic of Croatia, which is soil, water and air. On this basis, it means tourism and economic development, as well as increasing the quality of life and the health of our people. This first is measurable, and this second is priceless. We must be aware of this, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is aware of this and encourages precisely this kind of production that is seen in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80029	Thank you. Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80030	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Like this, a colleague of Huška was also talking about users. I would like to say that users who carry out agricultural activity in the beef, milk and milk products sector or in the general and goatmeat sector who do not have acceptable hectares in the first year of application of the single payment programme are granted special rights whose value must not exceed 36,000 kuna per right, provided that they retain at least 50% of the volume of agricultural activity expressed as the number of conditional throats from the basic herd compared to the reference year. It's very important, really important for these users. And what is more important is to say about the negotiation and how in reality this has been done perfectly, which is that it is crucial that only Croatia will have the opportunity to supplement those payments up to 100% in 2013, of course we want to stress here that maximum responsibility is also needed, which means respecting the rigorous control conditions that are prescribed in the EU. Croatia is absolutely in the interest of respecting these rules because it is ultimately a guarantee that the support will come into the right hands, which means those who deserve this support in reality. We have successfully completed the negotiations and shown in this area that almost two years before we entered, we have established a reliable system of control of the spending of funds for direct payments according to EU rules, which most of the new countries before us managed to achieve just before entering, and some even after that. So two years before we entered, we already established a surveillance system like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80031	And Mrs. Representative Marija Buric Pejcinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80032	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Huška mentioned a lot of important things in his presentation, and I'd look back at one, and that's on his platform for preparation at the local level for using funds. Pakrac has known this for many years, an excellent example of one end, a place, a municipality that, despite the great destruction that has actually survived since the beginning, has been extremely well placed in relation to the funds so that it has a series, a series of excellent results in the CARDS programme, PAR, IPA I still think that it should listen to such examples because, contrary to the applicable opinions that spread people who little know about using funds turns out that in Croatia, no one can do anything about it. We're supposed to hear a whole series of great examples this morning and I'm glad to hear again that our less environments are getting better and better prepared. However, I think this is a good place to say that it takes a few assumptions that these funds would be used well. One is certainly an initiative from the local level, another is people who will do so, and the third people of course must acquire titles and skills, and we have heard a lot from colleagues from Huška. However, there is another side that is equally important and in the time that comes before us is becoming increasingly important and is actually a challenge not only in Croatia but also in other countries that use this kind of fund. It is co-financing, co-financing of any size that it is always an additional effort for local and regional self-government. I would remind myself so much that it had not begun to think about it now but that the government had thought about it and had already done a few things. In particular, the Law on the Implementation of the Budget allows borrowing beyond that limit which is otherwise allowed for those types of borrowings when it comes to funds, so it was one of the obstacles which, in some areas, prevented co-financing and, on the other hand, in the 2011 Budget Act already envisioned more than a billion kunas for this particular area by different ministries, and I would like to say that in the future, it should certainly be counted on because there will always be a middle that will have problems with co-financing, and that is son qua non, it is necessary and without it cannot go any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80033	Thank you. And Mrs. Representative Sunday's Klaric. Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80034	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would at first immediately commend the esteemed colleagues and colleagues who have negotiated on Chapter 11 and hear when something is being negotiated cannot stand firm behind some views, the negotiations are a compromise, but we have invested in the other countries that have joined the European Union, I think this chapter of agriculture, fisheries and rural development that is well negotiated, but it is also evident that all these years the state budget has invested resources to support in such a way that the support has been given to all cultures that have been radiated, and it is particularly important to stress capital investment on equipment, funds, and even to buy land whether state or private. Why was this all done by the Croatian State? So that our Croatian farmer would be competitive on this harsh in 2013 by entering the European Union, I would say, the European and the world market when agriculture is quieted. Here are a few suggestions from my side that I have noticed moving in our Slavonian villages which could still be improved by the time we enter the European Union. a law on the availability of agricultural land. You know very well your colleagues and colleagues that we have four forms of availability, it's a return, sale, concession and lease. DA was given this in amannet municipalities and that I believe 99% of the municipalities made up their own programmes for agricultural land. Whether the Ministry of Agriculture and I would say in connection with the Attorney's Office, we must hurry, ladies and gentlemen, to return those parcels to those people, to the people whose communist system took it away. I know this job is about to end, but it's not over. By the time we enter the European Union, we must close that book so that these people will be compensated. If their plots are in the drenched boards, they will get where the municipalities have foreseen them with their programme. And we have to strictly enforce the Land Cruise Act. As far as mountain-mounted areas are concerned, mostly there in Slavonski boat weekend settlements, there is a very bad situation when it comes to rounding up, and the measurements of agricultural land. There is not one of these four available forms if no measurement is made where it is not done. Therefore, the funds of the county, municipal budget where changes are being made and the state geodetic administrations when they join together, we can do a great deal of work from these funds to do a groin in Croatia, mainly in these mountain-mounted and coastal areas where these particles are unsettled because we have heirs all over the continents, and meridians. It is very important that we point out and this is the constant education of our farmers, and we have included even more energy involved people from the agricultural colleges, the agricultural and technological colleges and our institutes that are on the budget of the Republic of Croatia. I think that's where you need to learn not only the business of that rough haircut, the collapse, but the importance of plant nutrition, the protection of plants in this modern world, and, above all, to educate them when organic production is quieter. I think we need to continue the main work, education when it comes to organic production and continue the irrigation process where possible in those counties, those municipalities, which have formed irrigation programs in their area. And something that is very important to me is that support control is introduced, can no longer be obstructed or supported for what they didn't initially have to hand to heart, admit that it was. When it comes to capital investments mainly in farms, multi-annual plantations, capital investment in expensive machines we know that the Croatian state, I said, has paid back. However, this return was used by some of our farmers for other purposes, buying expensive cars, and after two years of beginnings when the anunites came in line, they fell into some difficulties. In my opinion, it would be better if he had gone back to the bank then those anuities of the war would be cheaper for our farmer and then he could handle production more easily and easier to deal with that war that awaits him, whether it's monthly, quarterly, two or four times a year, as someone negotiated with the bank that followed that OPG or that farmer. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also support the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support in Agriculture and Rural Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80035	Thank you. Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80036	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State. I will also support this bill as my colleague Shime said, and when I say so, it would turn out that nothing should be said. I support the law and then there's nothing, but this is still an opportunity to get some things on both the law and the subject of an excuse. First, the item of the agenda is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development. The debate is dominated by agriculture, not rural development. I'd like to look back a little bit on rural development, perhaps more than others, not neglecting agriculture. But first, I'd say why we say agriculture and rural development. Why couldn't it be rural development? Why is that termology urban, rural? Why wouldn't it be agriculture if it's rural, etc.? so I don't know if it's a language thing called something in Croatia, whether it's in Croatian, whether it's in Latin or if we decide on a type of termology why we're not consistent with it? It's not your problem, of course, it's the problem of many others and not just this law but other laws, but it's very important. It is very important in the urban sense when we talk about rural development, because agriculture is taken up by rural areas, but the rural ones don't just have to mean rural ones. The village also has other problems that are not just agricultural and economic development can be established. But I would agree with something that happened this morning, because I was also following in the assembly this morning and following the debate with the replica of my colleague Ivan Bagaric, who told an anecdote with our marketing expert Skip and his experience in America, and how badly or ourselves we don't appreciate ourselves. I'm not gonna say right now that maybe my wife is talking about me worse than other women say, but that's how it works. This little bit like a joke, so I can mention my wife, she doesn't like it, then... So, agriculture and rural development, in order to happen at all, both of which the Croatian government has been working intensively for 8 years and has recognised this problem which is extremely important for the uniform development of the Croatian state because it has been said long ago that Croatia is not only Zagreb but the least village, that there is not even a region less valuable than the other region, there are various instruments of support, benefits, advantages etc. In order to stimulate rural development, the special laws we have passed for both mountainous terrain and urban areas have been affected in the war and lagrooms, etc. various types of support, various kinds of stimuli to make this happen. However, an important component in this set of things that enables the law to abuse what the law allows. First, I compliment Simi Djurdjevic, look at me when I speak, not them, and the one who mentioned the abuse of instruments that are available where various incentives and funds are being paid back, etc. intended for what they are intended for rather than for many other things that have nothing to do with what they are given for. The moment for such a law is very important, I would say extremely important, and it would support what my colleague Pejcinovic said, because she gave a special reference to this topic seen through the EU approach, that is, the importance of agriculture and the importance of the village as part of the region in the EU. One of the main elements mentioned in the discussions on value, reasons, rationality, the danger of EU entry was the village. And we can testify so from the talks with those to whom the Poles are concerned, the visits we had in Poland where 80% of the villagers were against joining the EU in fear of what would happen to the village. Today, 80% of the rural population are just satisfied with EU accession, because they have achieved some results that they alone would not have achieved without the EU. Therefore, preparation for EU entry on the topic of the country's situation, the state of agriculture, rural in the urban sense of the word, is extremely important. And that is why this law is not just passing it, but this law is the one that should actually become aware of the mental set of us that we know what a village in the future or rural development is, as a large part of the conditionality of civilised Europe at least in this sense I am not talking about other aspects of Europe, no village is a village. If no village were to be a village in that one mental parable of a backlog, etc. It is a very important infrastructure so that the village does not feel the village, that the island is not isolated but in a different way connected, that every village is available, if not asphaltoma at least with macadam and not that with walking, although phenomenal results have been made in it, I can testify last Friday when Vedran Rosic and I, gone there, was driving by car, there was a storm we couldn't cross St. The hand and the Maslenica, we couldn't even cross the Grazac directly because it was a road, we passed the old face road this bottom part. It's amazing how much it's done, how built and how much that space has been brought back to life. But by taking the highway we don't get to it, I just don't know if I'm going to admit the cost of that trip to Split because there's no charge card, and then there's a couple that want to be used for work, and that's not the case. The intruder doesn't understand. What? Shall I continue, may I? On the topic of infrastructure as one technological progress, urban technological progress,... the type of infrastructure does not function in space. [[You don't understand.]] It is also a very important technology for certain agricultural activities and other activities to be carried out. So the issue of technological progress that can be made with such an incentive means a tremendously large amount not to make the village a village in a technological and productive sense, but not in the technological sense of what civilization brings, for example. The fast Internet we couldn't have on Bratsch for a long time. With all my acquaintances with the secretary of state, etc. It couldn't have been solved, but it's getting rid of it, and it's getting better and better every day. So this type of technology is also very important, although it does not belong to agriculture, but it also allows farmers to live a better quality life in order to stay in the country, live, work and produce for their own and general good. Something important, which the law cannot predict, but the government can behave that is that the production that is expected, which is planned, is guaranteed to be and redeemed. So we don't get into situations where people produce and don't know what they're going to do with their products. But also from the general state policy that import goods are not harmful, they are in vain all the incentives that you give to the village if they produce, and there is nothing. My light's on fire, so I'm gonna cut this one short. In Iceland, we saw that a lot of agricultural products could be sold, like oil, like wine, like cows, and they have famous grass, the lichen of Iceland's famous. So there could only be a lot if we tried. And this local and regional self-government is not my pleasure, pulling on those self-government socialism, liberalism, communism, capitalism, colonialism, etc. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President and colleagues who have had the patience to listen to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80037	Thank you very much. She was just missing a girl from the village. ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Five replicas. First, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80038	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm not going to refer to what you said about your wife. I'm going to talk about technology. Namely, there are several facts that make agricultural development more difficult, and thus rural development. When you talk about technology, he does not care enough about the level of technological achievements, and sometimes they are misapplicated, thus obtaining tractors in Croatia capacity significantly higher than Croatia needs. There is insufficient use of scientific achievements and the application of expertise, but a major problem is the lack of lending of agricultural activity in general. No commercial bank wants to borrow agricultural activity and there is the biggest problem. It seems to me that 80% of total agricultural credits have been realised by Croatia's bank, the smallest bank with the worst balance and the worst results on state property. What further burdens agriculture is the lack of competition in wholesale and retail trade for agricultural products and one paradox economically when it is known to be the hardest to produce something. Only in agriculture in Croatia is the easiest to produce, and the hardest thing to do is to place and charge for their agricultural products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80039	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80040	To say the word, what they would say. That's why I said, I had a light on, so I had to interrupt my speech, but my colleague Maric just kept going on with all the thoughts that I was going with, and I just didn't have the opportunity to go through with the Rules of Procedure and say everything I wanted to say. But the fact is that there is no hearing that the educational, intellectual or mental level would rise to a higher level, to stimulate and finance this, so that the village would not be village, that agriculture would be more rational and not buy more tractors than the tractors should and not buy expensive tractors just as much as Mercedes is better than, I will not say Mercedes not to be an ad, but a more expensive car compared to some cheaper car. Thank you for speaking those very important sentences for me, colleague Maric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80041	And Mrs. Nevenka Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80042	Thank you. My colleague Roshin, you spoke of the development of this rural area, so here I remind you that even the terminology which is not God knows how defined, but 92% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is exactly this rural area and deserves safe attention and does not only apply to agriculture and agricultural production but to many branches of the economy. As this area is treated, for example, in the development plans of Zadar County, here I will try to say. It is in this segment that it takes an extremely high position in the priorities and measures of the Zadar County Development Strategy. After the basic analysis shows that rural hinterland and islands are constantly struggling with the problems of the undeveloped economy, the depopulation, the poorer infrastructure and the difficult conditions of business, but also the lives of the inhabitants of this part, and it is precisely for the sake of preserved and protected natural, traditional and cultural heritage located in these areas, they have extremely strong conditions for sustainable development, primarily through the development of tourism in rural areas, and in particular agritourism, but it is not negligible or traditional crafts. We know that the development of rural areas is one of the key development priorities of the Republic of Croatia, but both the European Union and the largest development funds are aimed at revitalising and developing diversification of activities in these rural areas. So it's not just about agriculture, it's about all the other investments that make it possible to increase the quality of life, but also to create new jobs and preserve heritage. Therefore, this is precisely the priority in the County Development Strategy of Zadar County recognised so that the measures to be taken in the realization of this are set in line with these high priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80043	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80044	Thank you for the replica, too, because it kind of confirms what I've been talking about, you've entered my area a little bit stronger, so I can answer you a little bit stronger. In front of you is Marina Matulović Dropulić, thanks to her understanding and another gentleman that his name is now not said, a Council for the Spatial Editing of the State was formed in the past term. And he was just going to control the entire area of the state, to look at all the urban aspects of that space. In order for this to work, various analyses, studies, and plans have been performed by God’s command. And I can announce to you that next Tuesday within the Croatian HZU Academy will be a presentation of the Council for Spatial Planning, the Government's Council for Spatial Editing of the State, which I led in the last term of four years. This term is Stiepo Butier, and it will be presented just to look at the problem in which rural issues are particularly highlighted. As you were talking about Zadar County, I could talk more locally about my Split-Dalmatia County where I know the problem, but I wanted to use the parliamentary stage, the stage to, to talk about general topics, about general access, about principles, not concrete problems because as well as Zadar and Split-Dalmatia has its problems from Zagor, the coast and the island. And that's a specificity that makes a difference to all other spaces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80045	Thank you. And Mrs. Marija Pejcinović, Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80046	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'd like to replicate on two of the topics you've been talking about. The first is the follow-up to which you responded to the valorisation of rural areas. I think it is excellent that in Croatia there is, in fact, a well-founded thinking on this subject, because in fact, in the European Union, and that is the consequence of this particular part of rural development. So, rural development funds to bring life back to those environments he's been leaving for years. With us, that trend was also noticeable. However, there is a growing trend in the European environment in the other direction. However, in order for it to happen, certain quality of life must be raised, certain assumptions. I was recently in Sisak-Moslavina County for a lecture. I was lucky there were a lot of people in the audience who used to use funds. And I was thrilled that there was an entrepreneur among them who came from Zagreb to the county and, meanwhile, was profiled as an excellent entrepreneur who produces very high quality goat milk cheese. And she began to receive awards not only in Croatia, but also outside the country. So this trend that not only does people stay in the environments that they came from, but that they go from bigger cities to smaller cities, I think it should be in some way and something that we all need to think about. And the second theme of my replica to you is what you mentioned actually referring to something that my colleague Shima was saying, which is abuse of funds. In fact, it is precisely good what European funds bring us, which is to introduce more rules. And in relation to the money we give from our own resources, so from our budget and from the European budget. In fact, this situation where someone from money targeted for certain projects is used to buy a private car is simply impossible in European funds. And I think it's actually good that this message comes to all of our funds, that there's no fakes, that the funds, so their use of very large increases looks at the time they're doing it, but also five years after the projects are finished. So they're going to wonder if there's a farm to be built, if there's a farm there not only when it was built but also the first and third and fifth years after that. I think it's going to introduce a lot of order, and part of the answer to why we were relatively unsuccessful in SAPARD right now is in it. Namely, there were coins on the other side from which it could be less controlled to observe it. I think this new regulation will greatly reduce that percentage if it doesn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80047	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80048	Thank you. Of course, we are practically supplementing ourselves all the time because there is one agreement here, especially what we have and together have had and seen some European experiences. In confirmation of this, I would ask a question, of course, by knowing what a college-educated man could do in the country, which are his opportunities to be in the country and to work, which is the quality of life, which is the quality of fulfilling his free time, which are the additional activities he should have. That's why I said that the issue and the infrastructure and technology available to him is very important. I keep looking over there without you being offended, so I'll turn to you. It's extremely important that the village doesn't have a village. My English friend Andrew Park is a university professor of geology in Reding lives in a place far from Redding 45 minutes drive in a place that is like the Ants of Split, no problem at all. All the infrastructure, everything he needs. In no way has he been cut off from the world. All these Internet connections, there's all this technology, and as he lives, as a university professor who's not related to agriculture, so who's not connected to the village, but only lives there and goes to work. Of course, it's a question of creating conditions for college-educated people to get to the country not only for their own farm, so he ended up agronomy for himself, but in general to get these people to. However, these are the experiences of the European Union. But the experience of the country will again tell me about Iceland, where we were, a country that is not in the European Union, a country that has only 320,000 inhabitants, a country that actually consists exclusively of scattered villages around the coast of Iceland, where the municipality is but of 500 inhabitants, because it cannot be, where the capital of Reykjavik is only 180 000 inhabitants who already have world-renowned technology in the use of thermal waters. They have no hau that sell all over the world, so they sell it to Croatia at two locations. Let's say one of them is the Crosses where they found geothermal water shows that you don't have to be in London to make certain things globally relevant, that it can be found even in Iceland which is... From all over the world until you get to Reykjavik, there's a problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development is extremely important because it represents a category of not only agriculture as agriculture, but agriculture as possibilities for the existence of people in rural space and then for rural space to be considered in the same way as urban space. When I speak urban, then I think of urban rather than urbanism as the general availability of space. That's why this law is important that I support it more or less. We'll raise our hand when we need it. But it's important not only as a letter on paper, but the practice that Mary has now told me in the replica about where international institutions will actually be, that is, the association that we're going to enter into, that we don't let happen to those abuses that happen to us and that don't matter better. Only what is added to livestock, what is said to the cattle of the small teeth, say the goat and sheep of the sheep of the people, receive support that they neither know where their goats are nor where their sheep are, nor what they will do with them on Brač. This isn't against my Bratch, but it's an illustration because it's what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80049	And for the cattle of a big tooth? Ms. Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80050	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. When you were talking about the whole concept of rural space, I believe you also said that as a spatial planner, a kind of spatial planner, and what I think is worth saying in this debate that in fact all those people who stayed living in the Croatian village are real guardians of that area, because while they live there do not grow chicare, food is produced, smoke is produced from chimneys, bread is roasted in the oven, real life is taking place. From this aspect, all those who often object to the great support provided for the Croatian village and Croatian agriculture are unable to see the concept that we are talking about, because there is not only a segment of food production, there is segment and investment in infrastructure, in the construction of sewers, waterways, schools, kindergartens, so a complete segment to ensure that these people live a normal life and that they stay alive in the country, not that they all move to big cities. I am a bit of an accountant for the Sisak-Moslavina County area from which I come this four years the Government of the Republic of Croatia has just invested over a billion and 500 million kuna through the Ministry of Regional Development, Ministry of Economy and this segment covering environmental protection, energy efficiency, renewable energy sources, as is said by the two annual budgets of the city of Rijeka. Well, it's not a small amount of money that was invested here only in the preservation, construction and restoration of the rural space of Sisak-Moslavina County, and so it was in all other counties. So it is important to actually look at the entire rural space, there I agree absolutely with you, to see what are the advantages of this rural space and life in rural space and why we support these people, because these people are actually people who have preserved the identity of the Croatian people, and because of them we are who we are, because of them we have both our language and our song, and our costume and everything that makes us Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80051	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80052	Yes, Mr. Vice President, I'm just as scared as we all agree, as good and positive vibrations are between us, maybe because that side there is empty, so now that we're talking to each other, when we're spreading those waves of mutual consent, but it's good that consent has, it's especially good.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80053	There it is, you have the right there is a great gap.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80054	There's a void. The void fills us.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80055	In every way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80056	So, colleague Petyr mentioned one topic that I didn't give so much importance to, but actually this topic is very important, it's... , agriculture is a matter of nutrition, a question of food, no food, I am not going to start what you know about, you know, and this, but to say that agriculture is really important because it is a diet and, of course, what is very important in all of its acts against GMO food production, on which it gets compliments and on my part, regardless of what we discussed on this subject in more detail, but in principle we agree on it all. [[You don't understand.]] However, there is the same issue that is very important that the public is not well known in the right way, and it would be good to talk about, or explain. Many say that agriculture is given, and what is it that agriculture returns. Many think that agriculture does not return as much as it is invested in agriculture, in fact that these effects are not so manifested, so it would be good in all those incentives, the means that are given, which we absolutely agree are necessary, we agree not to abuse them, etc., to say that each kuna invested in agriculture is multipled by the effect that society in general feels so much and so much, because there is a feeling in many, there is a feeling that in agriculture is given, and that it actually makes up for something that agriculture as its production does not deserve, and that error should be thrown out of its minds with concrete, reasoned indicators. So when we go for the wheat, let's go for the corn, let's go... I don't know about... [[You don't understand.]] Let's go, what that incentive has brought, which is the benefit that that producer gets, how sure he is of that benefit that he will have, how much it will apply to him at a certain point to see if he actually has a stake in agriculture like the stake in fishing, such as the stake in shipbuilding, etc. It makes sense, whether it's worth it, whether it's coming for the good. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80057	And Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80058	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your discussion, you spoke of the Croatian village and most of them, and you will agree with me before World War II. In the 30s of the 20th century, Croatia had about 36 million olive trees, with only about 3 million in the 1990s. It's the result of the industrialization of the country and the consequences of it I'll dare say chasing people from the villages to the cities. The then system was intended to move people from the village to the city, so that they would become one way dependent on the state and dependent on the system, because the rich peasant was a danger to such a state. I say in the '90s, we had three million olives. Recently, ten days ago on Croatian television, there was one show, or one contribution to a family protesting with their cattle, because it was dissatisfied with the distribution of the country. I guess at least part of you watched that show. It's a very large family, which has no credit, which lives on its work, and there's one thing that's being run on the show, a reporter said that some people are complaining about how he, one of these guys, is driving Mercedes. Why am I saying this? I'm talking about the reason why unfortunately this mental circuit that's held back from the time that I was just talking about still affects a lot of things in our society today. This mental circuit affects the fact that it means a very valuable family living exclusively from their work and having no credit should in one way be blackened and envious of them because they have one car. And I think at least one week or one eighth of Croats drive Mercedes today or a similar luxury car. But in that regard, it is highlighted as a problem. I would like Mr. Roshin to comment on how much and in what way this kind of thinking is holding back our overall development, the introduction of new technologies, the introduction of new varieties today in the country, and one word as to how long in your opinion we will be struggling with one of those kinds of thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80059	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80060	My dear, the question isn't like this for a quick answer. First of all, my generation was brought up to be unhappily. There's no work to work on, no wages until retirement, and if God gives you health I'm going to get sick, you understand, it was such a technology that we worked with because the work was pointless and the work had no concrete purpose. You got paid as much as you got, the radio didn't work. Your own self-interest to gain something more by working and fertilizing it and moving forward was not enabled, it was not allowed. So change that mental circuit where we're all interested in doing as little work as possible, not as much production as possible. It's not just for some general good that it's not a Pharisee but for itself, it's hard to say. At the very least, the roots of that you said at the moment, at the beginning of your actual exposure because it's really true that then the communist propaganda pulled people out of the village into the city not because they would be better off in the city than if they were addicted in the city. That experience was proven in World War II when my family was also giving yellow for yellow because you couldn't eat your fingers, and corn was supposed to. Thus, gold was given to obtain a turkey so that there was something to eat. So that's the technique, the technology that came in. And when he brings you into town, when no one has one foot in the country, it's very weak in the city. My father was a clerk, we had a very, very difficult time. We ate stew without meat, cod without cod. One salty heart with an evil would spice up a whole bowl of pasta. Because she would have passed on that taste. So, I remember those time of addiction without the village. And whoever was on Bratch that had his cabbage, his... something he had that had his own chickens and everything. I remember Vinko Cardinčić in Bol who had all his own, from fish, meat, vegetables and everything else. His salary almost remained only to buy what he himself could not produce, sugar, flour, and even salt could do alone. So, it's a key topic and the answer that we have to work on is that we actually need to live from our own work, not from other people's work and that it's not a solution to increasing the administration and... the administration but that the solution to increasing production that will bring more and more, but the work has to be appreciated and the work needs to be paid. Absolutely work should be paid to understand each other even though it doesn't have the right value. Because my social sensitivity is no less than theirs, if it isn't bigger, because my social sensitivity is based on the one who gave life for others, let alone give the rest. But you've touched one topic on the way, probably not on purpose, but very important. That certain parts of our space depend on the policies of a space where we have no authority. For example, the theme of Pop's field. One very fertile field or where you are from, where you are, where floods occur just because someone doesn't regulate the flow of excess water and the field floods and you're in great damage. So, in looking at agricultural issues, rural issues are very important not only regional thinking but also international thinking, because at no time does the field stop because there is a border between Croatia and BiH and because all these entities must be interlinked. Of course, that's not the question of this law. I think this law should be regulated, but when this law is read with all its elements that are then in the politics of a country, the politics of a government, the state that is this international co-operation is extremely important. Because to me today, especially through the habitat topic where I say the Philippines president is coming and telling us the floods were where there used to be droughts, and the droughts were where the floods were. So at global level, changes occur in one place that affect another place. So is this. And that is why it is also important to live in the city so that you can live in the country, or live in the country so that you can live in the city. Today there must not be a question of the village or the city in any way, for which way you get to the theatre in the city faster from the village than from another part of town. So, considering the regional and terrible expectations I have no matter what I conclude is good or not from this event, which will be at the Academy on Tuesday, where consideration will be given to the spatial development of Croatia as a whole. As good as this lab is, as far as I don't know, I haven't seen it, but it'll be interesting to hear and the lecturers are very interesting and the experts are in their work. Thank you very much. No one else? Can I sit down?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80061	It's the most beautiful thing to do at the end of the day. It's just a speech and a saying yes. ... And not from Agent Grubisic? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He says it's from the Philippines. ... Madam Representative Mariana Petir, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80062	Well, well-respected Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, MPs and MPs. So here's the whole day we've been discussing the aid law in agriculture, this is an extremely interesting topic, but it's also an important topic when we look at the future of Croatian agriculture in general. I have to say that my colleague Roshin encouraged me to turn a little bit different my debate about financial resources, and I would say what he often says isn't in the cups all, it can't be measured in money, it can't be bought all the money and there are some other values that are in itself, that we gain in ourselves and that we see around us. So, when we talk about agriculture and complete rural development, then it is inevitable to say that the government of the Republic of Croatia has invested 20 billion kunas through this Ministry of Agriculture resolution in these four years, that we have done what we have promised and here our programme is right in this segment of support, that we have returned support to family economies, that we have said that each throat of cattle is important, that every hectare of land is important and that we have verified it through the legal solutions that we have offered and adopted. Today 197 thousand family economies are also registered, today about 500 thousand people live in the Republic of Croatia, and this is not insignificant. About 1 million hectares of state agricultural land have been put into operation because it is extremely important to have land to produce food. What we have managed to do, and for what took a lot of effort and time, is one systematic and institutional organisation of Croatian agricultural producers who have been scattered into many associations for the first time were organised elections without the influence of the authorities where they themselves have run for their candidates and elected their candidates and thus the first Agricultural Chamber of Commerce was formed. So, a number of steps have been taken and good and positive steps have been taken to put Croatian agriculture on good grounds and on good grounds, it is certain that there are many challenges ahead of us especially when Croatia is at the threshold of entering the European Union but the fact that this is the time to say everything that is well done, so today we are also discussing because sometimes it is the impression that some of our representatives and MPs do not know what they voted for, they do not know how real life on the ground looks and in everything they see only what is black, they do not see what is well done, and my view that in Croatian agriculture is that as hard as it is because it has always been hard for the Croatian peasants, and it has always been dissatisfied because it is bread with three crusts, it is a bread that is hard, but it is certain that many positive things have been done and they need to be done in this debate when we talk about the support in agriculture and mention. It will hardly be able to valorize these 20 billion kunas, but as I have said, there are certain segments that are immeasurable, because you can't measure as much as you try and try, and I've been looking for some data as to what the value of beekeeping is in general in contribution to Croatian agriculture, but if we know that man feeds on some 100 crops and that bees question more than 70% of these crops and if the bee disappears not only biological diversity but that 20 thousand plant species will disappear, that food production will disappear, then there is certainly no money that could be valorised and invested in beekeeping because the contribution of both beekeepers and of course is immeasurable in this segment of Croatian agriculture that we are talking about today. And that is why you mentioned your colleague Roshin, and I will repeat, because I have advocated and have advocated for the last 10 years we have finally had results and success for Croatia to be free from genetically modified organisms and I am glad that our initiative is recognised by neighbouring countries, that we have been supported by both Hungarians and Italians and Austrians in these efforts because, of course, if we want to protect ourselves then we must have such an environment, and Croatia is a small country with a relatively well-preserved environment, Croatia is a country that has protected over 50% of its territory in different categories of protection against nature parks, national parks and now the latest ecological ties. And it is our chance to develop eco-agricultural and eco-tourism that this law recognises as a developmental opportunity for Croatia and that is what I welcome and what I think is extremely good. but this Law recognizes some other segments, this Law is not socially insensitive, although many want to show investment in agriculture as some investment in the social, it is those who do not know the Croatian village well or Croatian production, but this Law did not remain insensitive to those 16 thousand agricultural economies, but certainly 20 thousand persons who are to the extent of income support because this law provided this money for some 150 million kuna and for 2012. This law is also not insensitive to all those who have made observations that we have a problem if we put a limit of 24 thousand kunas as an obligation for the income tax system to enter income tax, which obliged agricultural producers to run their own special accounting, some have therefore given up support. So, by talking to both the Croatian Agricultural Chamber and the producers on the ground, we raised that limit to 48 thousand kuna. What is certainly important in this debate is that perhaps in the agricultural segment, the greatest success is achieved when we talk about negotiations with the European Union, which is that we have ensured that our farmers are paid out of 100% of the amount for direct payments. We also managed to negotiate that there was no sale of agricultural land to foreigners for 12 years. Therefore, all segments were taken into account and all segments were taken into account precisely the entire concept of conservation and Croatian village and Croatian agriculture. Because without the Croatian village, there is no identity and I talked about it, but without the Croatian village, there is no food production, and self-availability in the production of food is the real foundation of independence of every country and Croatia cannot behave differently from other democratic and orderly societies, and it is known if we look at these organised and democratic societies that each new job opened in agriculture opens up another two jobs. And that's why the money invested in agriculture is not money thrown away, this is a complex topic to be seen from all these aspects and the production of food and the preservation of the village, the preservation of our identity but of course the complete life that takes place in the rural area in the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, I think that this law is a major contribution to improving the regulation of this segment, which is extremely important to us in Croatia and I will personally support it. I believe that all these arguments that have been made during the whole day's debate which only shows the importance of this law will be sufficient arguments that some colleagues who today are not in the assembly might still wish to return here to the assembly. I always say here we're leaving some of our own personal responsibilities and pretty bold and brave to say that you're going to get paid without working. It's too much luxury that I don't think anyone should be allowed specifically not to say it so publicly when the great to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia still lives extremely hard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80063	Thank you. Replications. There's a lot of them. First Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80064	Don't take this as revenge now because you're replicating me. Of course I said that I support this law according to it there's a lot in the law. I've been saying everything in this law that needs to be upgraded. And of course it's not everything in the cups, there's something about gold, real estate, so it doesn't have to be all about money. All he's got is a good one. I also think beekeeping is important, although a friend of mine has said that his daughter has been buzzing around Zagreb for a long time and has not passed a single exam and has joined that beekeeping. I particularly agree with you on the point that certain investments cannot be seen so transparently in the return of the invested money. I think that the thesis is absolutely correct and I would refer to the experience of the highway where you couldn't get into the highway and say how many highways that highway would bring. It may even be known how much money it will bring to the highway to pay for the fares, it can even be calculated by assuming how many vehicles there will be, but what that road extremely means is that it opened up by going through those spaces through which the road was not or was not so fast that it could be used. On the same subject, I would speak quite the opposite of what they say in the Kukurik coalition. I think the Peljesac Bridge is an extremely economically important investment, not just infrastructure. Of course it's infrastructure, but as the highway opened the possibility of work, so would the bridge on Pelješac. An experience of a friend of mine from Brač who first built a stone workshop, and then a stone workshop brought home. And if he had built a house, he would never have built a stone workshop. So, I think these things are extremely important, but let's not forget that it says in the paper that no one will read Mandarins even though they get 200 kn a day and get an apartment and food for that time. So it's not enough money to work for 30 days, though it's more than what the week is, but it still earns one average salary plus food. Because people would rather stand out of work than join that work. Thank you, Mariana.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80065	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80066	Here's until you two agree, I'd just confirm that it's really not in the money all and that for some things in life it should have a heart, not just... in excel tables because then it won't take us far. And such an area is the area where we talk about the Croatian village when we talk about this space that has been exposed over many years to numerous challenges and has survived and left it because there were people of solid character and firm faith, people who knew who they were and people who knew from which table they rose from and that they would eventually return to that table. And that is why I think it is important to speak about this topic not only about agriculture but also about what the Croatian village means for the being of the Croatian people. And when you mentioned the Peljesac Bridge as an investment that is not only economic but also infrastructure, I would say it's an investment that says something about our sovereignty. That because of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, we must connect all parts of the Republic of Croatia, and the Peljesac Bridge is certainly one such investment that should be built in terms of preservation of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80067	Mr. Representative Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80068	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representatives Marijana, such a thorough debate on amendments and additions to the Law on State Support in Agricultural and Rural Development with the Final Proposal of the Law is just as important to say that agriculture is one of the foundations of the Croatian State and the Croatian village is the guardian of Croatian identity. This same Croatian village deserves us to discuss these amendments to the law for this long. He deserves a Croatian peasant and a heavy fisherman to dedicate the Croatian Parliament to him all day.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80069	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80070	I agree with you, colleague Vukic. There are times when they complain that it is too emotional for me to talk about the Croatian village, but it is because I devote every day to this Croatian village and live with them and I feel that it is not easy and sometimes we have heated debates and sometimes we have dynamic discussions and sometimes we may be angry with each other, but that is because we only want good for this Croatian village and we want more for the Croatian village because I think that Croatian village deserves it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80071	Mr. Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80072	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Petir, I am pleased that you have highlighted the importance of food and agricultural activities, because if we are to observe from the corner of Croatia only then we must say that agriculture can and must become the cornerstone of economic development and economic growth of the Republic of Croatia along with tourism and other activities, but it must be based on this development. Economic policy should be created in accordance with these objectives, it should be aimed exclusively at the development of agriculture. Without the village, Croatia cannot or will succeed, without its own food Croatia will not be fed. They're going to eat plastic tomatoes instead of homemade, which smells like 50 meters. That's a huge difference. When you said that money was not thrown away, of course it was not thrown away, but also often experts wonder when we know that sometimes someone gets an incentive for land that has never even been modeled, whether it is then an incentive part of economic policy or part of social policy. That's where we come in a lot. When you talk about a million acres, the potential is significantly higher. A million and 300 thousand acres we can start working tomorrow, and we need to focus our strength on that potential that's huge. Replace the import of food with domestic food, but there must be what you have said is the formation of a chamber of agricultural, stepping out, but there is too much in Croatia depletion of property and depletion of economies. Just together... I can also get myself a placement, and it can't happen that the potatoes are dug and thrown, it can't happen that peaches are harvested and thrown out of the protest, and it can't happen that tomatoes are literally plastic, and we have homemade tomatoes. [[You don't understand.]] It's an economic crime literally. And what my colleague Vukic said, so can't we have a rich farmer, can't we have a rich peasant? In fact, he deserved to be rich and drive Mercedes rather than those tycoon sons, banker sons and fondomaniac sons born with BMWs and Mercedes. As soon as they see the light of day in this life, they have Mercedes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80073	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80074	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Maric, I agree with you that agriculture should indeed be a fundamental and central economic branch in the Republic of Croatia. I'm sure it's possible, but of course it's not possible without an investment. And that's why we're talking about laws like this and some other laws because it takes investment to get somewhere in the end. I will only mention an example of tourism that with 18% of the full budget of the Republic of Croatia. Well, we didn't start doing tourism yesterday. We've been doing it for years. Investments were needed both in the hotel sector and in the private sector. It was necessary to come up with this whole concept and prepare to have such a good tourist season today, a million tourists more than last year, so a total of over 11 million tourists came to the Republic of Croatia and they didn't just come to the Adriatic, they came to the continent. So it didn't come overnight but it also required investments and measures that the Croatian government naturally carried out through these tunnels. When we talk about irregularities, of course, every irregularity needs to be punished, so it's not allowed to cheat on the state. Whoever cheats on the state, no matter what business he does, has to answer for it. That's why there are laws, that's why there are inspection services. When I was talking about agricultural land, I was saying that we put state agricultural land in place for about a million acres, but I agree with you, the potential is much higher. I will remind you here, the coalition government has proposed here a law on how to put raw agricultural land that is in place in private hands, so some have been against it, so the Constitutional Court collapsed because the Constitutional Court is today in the Republic of Croatia becoming a legislator. What the Croatian Parliament adopts laws is very often changed in the Constitutional Court and should look at what interests are. But today, the unprocessed agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia, which could have been processed in private hands, could have remained in force. And that's what to think about and that's what to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80075	Mr. Representative Josip Djakić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80076	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here, this law allows for simpler and better implementation of the support system in agriculture and rural development until the entry into the European Union, measures are proposed to establish the right of the basis for applying the results achieved. However, when we talk about agriculture as well as rural development, we must surely say that our village has been devastated for a certain time and that it has certainly experienced its rebirth over the past eight years. Not the one in the full sense of the word, but using all the incentives from the state, from the Ministry of Agriculture as well as from the Ministry of Rural Development, surely the village came to recover, surely survival in those rural areas became more quality than we heard, than road infrastructure, water infrastructure, from irrigation, from sewers and purifiers. All this is done and built and certainly the village has its perspective and future, has its opportunities to become with European standards and to be certainly competitive in its production. It is true that there are many more unprocessed land that should bring purpose and it is necessary to find opportunities for legal frameworks to put it in full production function and not to obtain incentives on that land, and nothing is done but chicory or abandoned properties. The inspection services certainly need to be strengthened and do their work more correctly, more and better so that those who produce certainly have good income, live well, so that the family households can certainly make a good contribution from their fields, not split the financial envelope, not split the incentives on those who do not process or who have left their land empty. There's got to be a way to put almost a million more acres in full function.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80077	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80078	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague, Djakic, you know best that there are those who have defended Croatia and there are those who have fed Croatia, and that is why I also advocate, it is an additional argument, to advocate greater investments in the Croatian village because I believe that this role and value of Croatian village cannot be measured by any money. And I agree with you that we have been trying here this time to make every effort to restore both social and social and municipal infrastructure in the Croatian village, especially in those parts of Croatia that have seriously suffered and felt the most impact of the war. I believe it will be recognized, that people living there will recognize it as a single contribution to them and their families, but that perhaps some new village residents will soon come to that village. Because our goal is to fill the houses in the Croatian village, not to remain empty, to have someone live in them, to make products produced in the Croatian village to be sold on the doorstep. I think that's what we've created the conditions and that we've created the foundations, and of course, it depends on everything he's got to do with the entrepreneurial spirit and how best he'll sell his product. We as a state, regional administration, local self-government must create frameworks. There are those who don't work right, and that's true, there are those who falsely report that they've sown something, and they haven't, and that's why we've passed the laws. The laws make everything clear, and I agree with you that the inspection must be both more up-to-date and expedient, but these are minor examples. It would be bad if we actually transferred this debate to the field of the non-good minority, which is bad, which is not within the law because there are so many positive and great examples in Croatian agriculture that deserve to be talked about here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80079	Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80080	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Petyr. It's good... Indeed, you have said this in your speech when we speak of both these support and measures that are related to this law, and otherwise through investments over the past years in agriculture, that it is necessary to clearly withdraw the distinction that and these support, investment falls within the scope of social laws as such but are socially sensitive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This means that through investment, especially when it comes to smaller economies, and also in support through this law, there is one article that speaks precisely about reducing a certain number, so pieces of cattle or cows. So, it should be realized that such a policy is precisely in the sphere of the economy of these activities, in fact, one part of the people and they are doubling from that social category, and it should certainly be repeated again and always repeat as clearly as such, and what was just before and it was debated that what was within the scope of thieving, crime should be clearly sanctioned and all new. I'm happy with the comments from the bench, and that means that it's not just us from the ruling here, but there are others, so I'm supporting a colleague who's sharing with us this afternoon and I'm glad that's the case. And to conclude, when it comes to the topic that you have here valorized agriculture which is much, much larger than agriculture in a narrow sense is proven every day over and over again, and this is where everyone here is in charge today in fact either indirectly or directly confirmed and from tourism to other branches, therefore natural life but also total social life. And I believe that these support today, which I propose under the law, are further development and which are now encouraging further development of agriculture in this direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80081	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80082	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Turk, I fully agree with you that these support investments in agriculture do not fall within the social category. Those who so claim do not understand the absolute problem, because investments in agricultural production, investments in food production are investments and in the economic development of Croatia, have a much wider dimension. They're nagging us that we've introduced an incentive on the throat and on the hectare. But I would say that, if we had. We let people work, make money, and feed their families because these people aren't at the Employment Service, they don't receive social aid. They feed that one, two or three cows. They process that one or two or three or five acres of land. They're not social cases from that school. If we'd done otherwise, we'd have had social cases. I'm glad to see that we have a majority in the Croatian Parliament and that we can pass good laws, and this is one of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80083	Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80084	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to say, I'm a little sad, but I'm happy. In fact, I am sad because this is the way we talk about agriculture in the last session almost last week, and this debate certainly has earned agriculture much earlier when we have adopted certain strategies. Because right now we're talking about state aid in agriculture and state aid on rural development, and we know that these are strict regulations that are prescribed just to be respected. I have to say, I don't agree in one part with my colleague Marianne when people say they live off one throat. Yeah, they live. Unfortunately, it's also social, too, except that we're bringing this social welfare into the account of agriculture, and maybe for a long time we're going to have a farm that's not going to be an economic branch but a social branch. We will eventually have to separate agriculture in the part that is a survival segment, a segment that serves to be welcomed if not already aged then this social, agricultural support. But agriculture if it wants to survive, if it wants to be an activity must strengthen its competitiveness and must be able to appear on the market. Because we or not today's agriculture, or agricultural products are being imported. We talked earlier about five products of self-sufficiency. Unfortunately, there are no more than five of them today, and at the same time we say here over a million hectares are listed in the register of cadastrian particles, or agricultural particles. We have so much potential land. Unfortunately, we did nothing even in the segment of renewable energy production where we could do very much. We always go back to it. We don't need to waste food in the direction of energy. Food should be consumed, or agriculture should produce everything that is currently going in the direction of self-sufficiency, so, if energy self-sufficiency is necessary, whether it is biofuels from, or from, the first generation, whether it is fuel from the second generation. Simply agriculture would have to produce in one word everything we have surfaces for. Just to put 50% of the potential surfaces in service of Croatia x times I said it here, you could feed 20 million people, and look at what our imports are -- a billion dollars, not to say that in the 1990s we had a positive balance in exchange. Today I say we are large importers, and I really don't see what we in Croatia have thrown out of agricultural production. In other words, it means that we do not have production and we will have to work to increase production if it does not work for export, and it is precisely because of what you have mentioned, but unfortunately it is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80085	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80086	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Chuhnil, I agree with you that Croatia has great and great potential in agricultural production especially in food production and that it can feed 20 million people. And that is why it is important to recognize this potential and to invest in Croatian agriculture, including through this law that we are discussing today and I believe that we will pass it, which is the Law on Support. Because without investment, there are no final results. It's not enough the love of peasants, the love of agricultural producers, our tendency to support them. Moral support can be a temporary life, but not permanent and therefore financial resources are needed. And that's why I'm pushing for the support in agriculture to be even bigger than what we have today. We disagree in this section when we talk about those small farms. I think it's a good thing that we've introduced support on both the throat and the hectare because we've allowed these people to have their jobs, to earn themselves, to feed their family, to educate their children, and thus put them in the category of a working-age population, not the social category. I think it's positive and it's good. What no one can pay, no one can pay them that they are the guardians of Croatian space living there, that very often do not have annual holidays, that go on vacations and don't go on winters, they are there all the time, are in that Croatian village, share all the troubles, products under the open sky that sometimes sends them nice weather, and sometimes they don't. These are all major challenges and major problems faced by people living in the country, who are exposed and that is why we must as a state find perhaps better models to support them, in order for our production to be both more quality and more competitive and that, of course, all those who deal with agriculture can live decently and honestly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80087	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80088	I'm thinking at all whether or not I should continue, since I think it's my turn to talk. But, Mrs. Petyr, I'm still going to replicate. There's a lot to say, and a lot has been said. But what you said today isn't a good number of MPs who, as you said, don't even care. So it can be noticed that sometimes it's for those who are not here today a little bit and a burden, agriculture is their kind of painful subject, and I also heard from the leader of one of the parties who is not here today, although it's not nice to talk about those who are not actually peasant parasites, so here's a little bit of maybe in favor of having a little more time to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80089	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80090	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, well I have also heard various words and labels that are beautiful to the Croatian peasant, I think it is extremely ugly, that it does not serve anyone the honor, and personally grieves me if it came from representatives of the Croatian Parliament, no matter what political option they belonged to. I think that agriculture and the Croatian village deserve really to be a topic here in the Croatian Parliament, I think it is one of the topics where we should all put our heads together and see which are the best solutions, but the fact is that every man has an area of his interest, so in this sense I believe that the Kukurik coalition, although here he has given himself a name for one animal that belongs to livestock production, and it is part of a branch of agriculture, maybe he has no interest in this agricultural production, because they have advocated another concept, they have advocated large combinations, they have little family economies not at heart, there have been big problems for them to carry out the agricultural reform, and today when we have shown that this is possible, that in the Croatian village they can live on agriculture, that Croatian village has a chance and that there is a future, I believe that some of it bothers and that there may be some reason why they are not in the assembly today.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80091	The animal belongs to cattle, livestock. Perads in livestock. ... And aren't those two branches special, poultry and livestock? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Perad and cattle? I apologize for being uninformed about that, those cattle things. [[Intruder: And a tiny tooth.]] And Mr. Representative Bozo Bishop.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80092	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Petir, you mentioned in your speech a very nice syntagma Croatian village. I would add Croatian peasants, because he is his own toughness throughout the 20th century, and they have tried it many ways and destroyed it, let's just remember the times after World War II of various... various cooperatives and similar ones, however, were held to this day and should also be thanked to the Ministry of Agriculture for having succeeded in negotiating this chapter so successfully, and of course it should be commended to this law which provides quality state support and, of course, agriculture and rural development. [[You don't understand.]] But you talked about tourism at one point. I think when we talk about the Croatian village here, of course, that there is a great tradition in the south of Croatia, but also along the coast, but unfortunately in northern Croatia still insufficient, I think that all of these products that we support could be sold directly and on the spot, if tourism in northern Croatia would be strengthened, I would especially mention, of course, if it is a Croatian peasant, and the guardian of Croatian identity and rural identity, of course, is stronger by developing Croatian tourism in the north of Croatia, and I will mention in particular the Krapina-Zagorje County which has a centuries-old tradition and these traditional crafts, of course and home work, there is a need in some way to link it all together to focus and develop it as is the case in many European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80093	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80094	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Biskupić, I agree absolutely with you, I think that the sale on the doorstep has no alternative and in this sense many measures have been designed both through the Ministry of Agriculture and through the Ministry of Tourism, here are 13 different competitions precisely for the development of continental tourism these days will be closed and contracts will be signed. I believe that this is a good way to get exactly what the Croatian peasant produces on his property, which is natural, which is not exposed to various contaminants, which is domestic, which is Croatian that it can be offered to tourists, that it can be offered to guests and that they will be satisfied, so maybe some of these products buy and bring home. I agree that this is Croatia's chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80095	And Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80096	Is there another HDZ representative to give the replica, to... If he can. [[You don't understand.]] No problem, I've got time. Well, I'm just asking. So gentlemen of HDZ and HSS, this one of yours, your idyllic as someone said on the other side the other day, performances and praises, praises to Croatian agriculture and everything you've done to help Croatian agriculture, go to Slavonia and see what you've done. This is really embarrassing, what you're doing today with this debate. Furthermore, this debate looks like whether you trust me or your eyes, go and see what happens there. Well, the villagers have told you many times about tractors on the roads that they think and how they live. The Law on State support for agriculture and rural development aimed at increasing agricultural production, and one of the most important measures in the development of agriculture was the implementation of operational programmes. What are the operational programs and what have you done, you from the ruling coalition? So the irrigation and management of agricultural land and water that planned the design and construction of the irrigation system in which you spent a billion and a half kuna, or you planned to spend and only spent 200 million. Further, increase the agricultural, or production of milk to a million-point 2 liters of milk per year. What is the production of milk in Croatia today, gentlemen, do you know that? 500 grand, if that's what it is. Or in millions if I speak, excuse me, 500 million liters, and it should be a billion and 200 million. Furthermore, an increase in the load of pigs, Mr. Secretary of State, to 2 million pieces of cargo. How much is produced today in Croatia? ... Oh, yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Maybe with one less zero, Mr. Secretary of State. And you know it well. Now you've imported 3.5 million pork, imported, not you, three million pork butts for prosciuttos. And whose and where? There are rumors, I must say rumors, there are certain indications that there are also those in which there are dioxins. Have you checked, are you sure about the veterinary inspection? Have you checked? Why don't you ask the vets and the veterinary inspectors, but let's be honest? Furthermore, what do you do for agriculture? How can a Babic, pardon Pavić from Babina Greda take his cheese to Rijeka or Split to sell it if the highway to Rijeka costs him 2,000 kuna for a truck? But for me, I don't mind making a discount for the ferry for our people on the islands, but bring the vignettes in once and for farmers from Slavonia. So that they can get to the market, that they can sell their product, not that the highway costs them more than that cheese that drives to Žitnjak, Rijeka on the market or in Split. Did you adopt Measure 101 until a few months ago, prohibiting the construction of ULO coolers in Croatia in negotiations with the EU? The measure has now been removed, and large freezers can now be made in Croatia. How many refrigerators are large in Croatia? How many dryers are there in Croatia? How many meat industries have I mentioned before in one replica, except for Belje, how many were from Ilock to Vrbovac in Slavonia and Baranja, Srijem? None. They were little slaughterhouses. You say a thorough debate. Well, a thorough debate could have been four years about agriculture, and now, as someone said in recent days, that's a thorough debate, it's actually a joke what you're doing to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80097	My colleague, I do not allow such a speech to make the debate in the Croatian Assembly of Representatives a lakord.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80098	Don't interrupt me, please. So, here we go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80099	I warn you to stick to your decency.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80100	We take care of agriculture, and thank God from the Capes of Sharp and Olives and Wines, so let them not go to Bari anymore, but to Lovas and Mala Bapska, as the song says, even to the Philippines. That's what a wonderful debate today is. Is that right? The HDSSB has proposed 2.3 years already of the Storage Act. When did we adopt him? And when were we discussing the Warehouse Act? Ten days ago. ... Yes, there is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, the HDSSB proposed a stock exchange for agricultural products. It's never come to life or it'll liven up. The HDSSB proposed establishing Agrobank to assist the Croatian village and for financial support and assistance. It's never gonna happen because it'd be a domestic bank so it's not the right place to be home because there's none but Post Office, so now it's gonna be another one so Agrobanka, where's it gonna be? Where are we going with that? There'd be too many domestic banks, I guess. It is true that the village, or agriculture factory, is under the clear sky. And exactly that depends on the weather and all the other opportunities and the troubles. And that the risk of agricultural production is high. Well, then there are some strange things in this society. That it was, for example. I won't tell the manufacturer or the importer where the liter of water is a little gasier than a liter of milk. That a liter of gasoline is five liters of milk. That one beer is three liters of milk, that for a case of beer you must have 100 kilos of wheat, a case of beer that two bastards drink in half an hour. It is true today about Croatian agriculture, and already when we talk about all possible details in your discussions. Now, you're talking about the great support Europe is going to give us money and money for our agriculture. Yes, it is true, and 350m euros are foreseen, but there is. Now at the last minute, we are also discussing the adoption of a rural development programme without having previously been tested in practice through models. Furthermore, what can be limiting factors in withdrawing these funds? These are unsettled ownership relations, inconsistency and incoherence between catastra and grantovnica, unprivited state agricultural land, relatively large areas of nature protection and ecology, regional parks and unimplemented free legalisation of agricultural facilities, and the law on which the HDSSB referred to emergency procedures in March, April, however, by decision and insisting on HDZ clubs, and supported by other clubs of position, so HSS and others, the emergency procedure law was rejected. How will you look for EU funds if you do not have a legal object? Why don't you State Secretary tell me about it? 95% of agricultural facilities are currently not legalised and yet, thank God that the extended deadline from this year 2011 to 2012 may well be successful. Some facilities may be able to legalise themselves and it has been said that this is the reference year by which we show our results towards agriculture and production towards the European Union. I think you understand the weight of this question, we don't talk about it, today... we dear mother of agriculture, and every third house in Slavonian village is buried, windows nailed, go to Mr. Djakić, go to Jakacin, go to Gregurevic, go to Ravan and see what the Slavonian village looks like. I don't know where you've seen advanced villages, come and see, maybe there's an asphalt 2.5 metres wide and there's still no plumbing though, but look how many people live in these villages. Slavonia has lost 100,000 residents per population census in the last 10 years. Croatia 200, so half of it is lost in 5 Slavonian counties. Why is it that, when agriculture is so prosperous and it is so nice to live on, why the people of Slavonia and Baranja disappear, the one who is God-given, the land of honey and milk that has come to is exactly, mine and many others have come from Herzegovina, Bosnia, like, Dalmatia, and now, as Jerko says, let's rock olives and cherry marasco in Dalmatia, the way is the other way. We want all our regions to develop evenly, and that agriculture is emerging both in Dalmatia and in Konavla and in Dubravka below, so also in Bapska, Ilock and in Valpovo, Miholjc everywhere. If we succeed in this, the big question is, given how politics has been conducted, how some have been favored and some have been put almost in social terms will be as the French comme ci comme ca said.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80101	Thank you. Two corrections, one replica. First Mrs. Representative, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's my colleague Grubisic. She's embarrassing and incorrect. This claim of yours here to say that everything is expensive. My colleague Grubisic, this debate of yours is a debate by task and this task is called spit, here all colleagues have spoken with argument, if you can't understand the arguments then it can hardly be your debate in any other respect. And one more thing if it were so and your Slavonia would take it seriously as a party and as a representative who discusses agriculture when the temple of science opened in Osijek that funded this government and that's the Faculty of Agriculture where all Slavons and all the Croats were proud and satisfied, I don't know if you were there, there you took advantage of the occasion and such one temple you spat on. It is a sad fellow Grubisic even if it comes from you and your party.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80103	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, usual already.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80104	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, I thought that you would intervene, given that you always, Article 209 of my impressions of what is being discussed here, are my impressions cannot correct them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80105	She wasn't correcting your impressions, she was correcting your claim that you were saying at the outset that this was a shameful debate, giving in to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80106	Well, these are my impressions, so she can't, I still think about it, besides her 100 corrections, and about the temples of agriculture she speaks of, I'm neither invited nor you would call me, and if you called me as far as you're concerned, I wouldn't come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80107	Mr. Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80108	You told your colleague Grubisic that there is only one domestic bank in Croatia, the Croatian Post Bank. There are 10 domestic banks and two are state-owned, the Croatian Post Bank and the Croatian Bank, which only lends agricultural activity, and this is the majority of its credit ratings that are currently directed to Slavonia. It's an easy confidential fact that's not my fact, it's a social fact. The Croatian bank would have been even more engaged in agricultural activities if it had not been tortured by the actions of 5 300 former owners and shareholders of the Croatian Bank, which the CNB has assessed, given that the court has made no decision in one unacceptable way for 10 years. And when that is resolved, I believe that exactly and that bank will capitalize, strengthen and invest even more in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80109	And Mrs. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Grubisic, in his presentation, gave some aspects and vision and, of course, I agree that we can look at things from both sides. I am always in favour of trying to see what has been done positively and today we have talked about it not running away from the challenges ahead of us and keeping in mind that for sure, and I have said that several times in the debate to live in the country, working on agriculture is not easy and therefore it must be a branch that will also enjoy greater support from the Croatian state from the budget than it may be and now has even though we are complaining that we have invested too much money in agriculture. What I would say is one of the challenges, and I think it's a subject that we haven't touched enough today is the issue of preparation for the withdrawal of funds from pre-accession funds where I think the development agency of Osijek-Baranja County and I often point out and praise it for a good job, for example the development agencies of some other counties should be seen and simply prepared to write good projects to help agricultural producers. You can't expect a peasant to produce food, to be in the field all day and then still deal with writing projects that maybe we wouldn't know how to fill in here, and to do marketing. In this sense, the development agency and the counties and cities should be supporting themselves, should be more involved, it should not be allowed for different companies, and there is an invasion of these companies that today want to rob Croatian peasants and charge non-stop prices for the preparation of projects, so I think there is one space where development agencies and agricultural services and other services can find common language and help to ensure that these funds that we have managed to ensure that they are actually used not to leave an empty letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80111	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80112	Comrade Petir, when you talk about taking peasants and the agencies that were building the project, then you'd better go a little deep in that bill of law on an urgent procedure for the almost free legalisation of the agricultural facilities that you proposed and didn't support going into emergency procedures. When it's legalized by your model, it'll be our peasants' ride.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80113	Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In the debate on the applicable law adopted by the Croatian Parliament in mid-2010 It was stressed that agricultural support policy is one of the most important topics the Croatian Parliament had during 2010. Since it is a reform law whose adoption meets one of the criteria and is one of the more demanding criteria under Chapter 11-Peace and Rural Development. It is also stressed that the final result of meeting this criterion will be favourable for the Republic of Croatia and Croatian farmers, given the fact that they are fully opened to a market of about 500 million inhabitants, and that their respect for the preliminary financial envelopes is significantly more generous in the time ahead. Of course, it has also been concluded that we must welcome this opportunity ready for what is necessary timely and quality preparation for both our farmers and the state administration, and in the context of the overall reforms of Croatian agricultural policy. The ultimate need to take this last and most sensitive step, thus ending the reform of the national system of support for agriculture and rural development and thus making it compatible and acceptable to those in the EU countries. Special attention has been given to rural development measures and the need for our farmers to understand in a proper and well-intentioned manner the fundamental direction of change that awaits us by entering the EU, i.e. the strong increase in the share of rural development measures in total support to welcome it ready and make maximum use of it, because it is precisely the area of rural development that is the key to a successful transition from the current agricultural support model to the future system. Finally, we also talked about how the reform proposed by the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development is of high quality, timely and political importance and that it is characterised by a clear vision and direction of national agricultural policy on the truth of important and sensitive sectors during the transitional period. The long-term direction of the agricultural policy of support and the retention of the elements of the adaptability of the most sensitive area or the area of direct payments. Respecting everything previously said, as well as the belief that the reform of the then existing system of agricultural support was necessary not only for the reasons of our nearly full membership in the EU, but primarily for building solid foundations for the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture, I will support the proposed amendments and additions to the applicable law. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the other day we discussed the Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The bill also envisions the economic co-operation of the Republic of Croatia with Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. Knowing the geography where Croats live mainly in BiH, a broadly complex issue of water protection, irrigation, organic food production and a joint appearance in the markets is being raised. In his debate, Mr. Roshin mentioned that some things can't stand at the border, and I just want to say a few words about it. For example, fruit production in Popovo Polje or fruits and vegetables in the Neretva valley or livestock production in the Danube-Livish and Kupreš fields can keep people in that area. It is also the interest of the Croats of BiH but also of the Republic of Croatia. And they can offer their products on the Croatian market, more specifically they can offer healthy food. This is one wide field of action, and I believe that in the future that is ahead of us, the businessmen on both sides of the border will know how to use this, that they will know how to use the time that pre-accession funds carry. And what we talked about today, and very little we touched irrigation in the Republic of Croatia, five, six years ago, only 15 thousand hectares of farmland were irrigated in Croatia, today that number is twice as large. But there's another broad field where with a better water management both in the drain and in the irrigation, the water will be included in the agricultural production so that the yields per unit of surfaces are far greater if we don't have news headlines, the drought will cut the yields or the drought will destroy the yields. As the Israelis do, as the Italians do, as the Spanish do, there is our chance to have quality food that we produce, to protect water and to import food less in the future. The HDZ in its future programme offers one of the points of sale, the sale of water. A false picture was created in public as if the Croatian state wanted to sell its water streams, its sources, etc. It's not true, so it's water as a commodity that can be offered to those who need it, so below 1% of the water that flows into the Adriatic Sea can be sold to countries that need that water. It is therefore very important to have organic food production upstream to protect those waters that can be very high-quality and lucrative goods sold by the state of Croatia tomorrow. All I have left is to say that I will support the adoption of amendments and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80115	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here's my colleague Vukic, I'm going to join your debate and I'm going to say this all you've listed is how to stay and irrigate and produce food, and from not having a drought happen, so of course it's part of a huge investment in rural development, in the agricultural producer. What I said earlier, but I'm sure there's little to say about the fact that 190 million kunas were invested by the government in the Faculty of Agriculture. It's a campus in Osijek. It is therefore made according to European standards rather than above these standards. All professors and rectors are thrilled with this, full of praise and people who will be educated here and it is a temple from which knowledge will go out. The third priority of the IPARD is prepared, so the measure is 302 in preparation. It is also through this section that the rural tourism sector and the traditional craft sector will go out, the direct sales sector, freshwater fishing, services, agricultural processing, mushroom production, the renewable energy sector. This is what I'm saying is through measure 302 in what way, so of course the agencies that are going to work but where they came from, that's what experts have to do. So also graduate agronomists and foresters and professions and doctors of veterinary medicine and all professions that are related to the reality of production. And that's why it always makes me happy when you talk positively, not when you talk negatively about something. Here, thank you, you speak truly positively in your presentations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80117	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80118	Thank you very much. Dear Madam MPs, it's such a horoscope to me that I always try to speak positively. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80119	What sign? A virgin?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80120	You said the Croatian government invested in the Faculty of Agriculture in Osijek 190 million kuna. I now do not know exactly how much the Croatian government has invested in Mostar University, but I know that it is much more than that figure and that is the most valuable investment that the Croatian government has given to Mostar, Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in the long term it will be the smartest investment in that space for those people there. Investment in education and science. To this, since I come from that region, I can only thank all those who participated, mainly the Government of the Republic of Croatia who had an understanding of our problems and what successfully solved the problem. Thank you very much again from your heart.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80121	Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80122	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here it has been for a long time, but I don't think it's in vain because this law is very important for the future of our agriculture, and above all for the life of our village. We have heard this several times here today and in negotiations with the European Union that ended very successfully in June, thanks to the government of Mrs Kosor, the ministry that negotiated extremely well in the area of agriculture, and it was not easy. It wasn't easy for sure to achieve all these I'm going to say benefits at this point our peasant can take advantage of. On the trail of a recent stay in Poland where I met several Polish farmers who were very skeptical when entering the European Union told me tell our friends in Croatia they should not be afraid to join the European Union. As far as we know, you've been better at negotiations than we have, and we've used a lot. One example. We all know that the Netherlands is a great producer of flowers. By withdrawing money from pre-accession, especially now that they have been in the European Union, the Poles have become the leading country in the production of flowers. Here's what might be a little bit known, but they've exceeded the big, big ones of the flowers producers in the Netherlands, which is an example that it's certainly the parts that have never produced, for example. Flowers or less produced have entered the European Union in this way. This proposed law makes it possible to adapt immediately to the regulations of the European Union and that is why it is important, so we should all discuss it today, including an opposition that has not even arrived in Parliament today and does not want to discuss it. In order to be able to use as much money as possible, it is also very high that envelope popularly called i.e. A number of reforms have also been implemented to help agriculture. Today we talked about how much reform it is, but also how much funds are invested in agriculture and rural development. For example. in my county alone, in one of the replicas I mentioned, that somewhere around 2 billion and 600 million kuna was invested in these four years through various donations in the state budget subsidy, about 650 million relate directly to support in agriculture, but only support in agriculture, so aid to farmers in production, in buying, in capital investments through different forms. Here I did not count in these 650 million kunas what my colleague Petir mentioned, which is investment in infrastructure that is very important, so some villages got asphalt, almost a large part of the village in Savina, in Moslavina got water, the sewerage was introduced, not to mention schools, kindergartens, facilities of some other purpose, cultural purposes, those rural homes that sometimes even the centers of life in one village. All this is about the quality of investment in the Croatian village and the survival of the Croatian village. However, so much has been said here today. As we have already re-entered the European Union on July 1st, it is necessary to underline the importance of the reforms that the government has implemented in this area and to reiterate the success of our negotiators. I'm sure it wasn't hard, it wasn't easy for our farmers. It was a difficult adjustment. We heard today especially in small rural family economies that are difficult to adapt to these new conditions, these criteria set by both pre-accession funds and which they must meet to get the money. But it should certainly be noted that there is a major shift in the resolution of both the ministries and agencies and the chambers and various development agencies that have been involved in resolving the necessary documentation and helping, above all, that small rural economy to manage this vast documentation. I must say that the peasants here and in my county began to deal with some of the activities in agriculture they had already forgotten, which had already been a little bit forgotten, and during the Homeland War a large part of the agricultural area was unfortunately still untapped, so the Croatian government invested a lot. That's not what we're doing today. I think that colleague Marinovic only mentioned an extremely large amount of funds right in our county in the demining of agricultural land. So they began to deal with and encourage those cultures, agricultural cultures that were killed by war. For example, in all of Banovina where there is an extremely well-known breeding plum. Re-encouraged the uplifting of the plums, re-encouraged the production of pithomic chestnuts. So, incentivizing the plantation of a pitomatous chestnut. These were all cultures that unfortunately died during this Homeland War and were forgotten. In these incentives, and this law provides for one good thing especially for those parts of livestock farming and warfare for the production of those, therefore livestock and war products which are not otherwise intended in the European Union for payment through incentives. We were able to re-emphasise the great success of our negotiators. We have managed to ensure, in these three transitional years, production incentives in two sectors for which we do not otherwise have incentives in the European Union. It is primarily the sector to encourage breast-feeding cows, breast-feeding cows, sheep and goats for which for example here I will say we were a cattle county that mainly raised pigs and cattle. Now more and more people are turning to goats and sheep precisely because of these incentives that have come from the state budget and that have stimulated this production. We have heard the importance of local communities, municipalities and cities, we have heard extremely good examples, significant examples of how local self-government and regional self-government can be involved in helping our village and our farmers. Therefore, changes in these proposed amendments and additions are significant. It is important to amend and postpone the deadlines for units of the local community, local self-government and regional self-government, so that they can continue to grant funds until September next year to farmers, or farmers in their fields, and before that, as proposed by these legislative amendments, the Government will also set out measures and guidelines for the implementation of these measures. Of course, the ministry will give consent to that. I will point out once again that this law must be adopted and because of something else that Croatia's entry into the European Union opens up to our agricultural producers a large market and is certain that, with all the good brands that have been created during these years, our farmers will find their place in the tables, hotels and on the European Union market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80123	Thank you. Replica Madam Representative Sunday Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Roksandić. I'm going to replicate it for a very short time, even if we get to boast again with everything that's been done. But the truth is, we have arguments. First of all, I'm going to say the impressive figures that you've cited, hundreds of millions of kunas, not only have the Government of the Republic of Croatia invested in your county of Sisak-Moslavina equal examples I have for the area of Sibenik-Kninska. But I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development has invested huge resources from the area of its competence through state support through grants through 2010. Years into the development of fishing cooperatives. That's not a bit negligible. The Secretary of State knows very well who is in charge of this resort, which means fishing when we talk about 6 marine counties. So here is the opportunity to say, and now, after this speaker, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia had a really great understanding because I underline the set to be determined by a non-refundable model because there is another model of financing, credit finance. But when we talk about the incentives for the islands inhabited, of course, in Croatia, then we will have more opportunities to talk about it. We certainly expect significant funds through this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80125	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80126	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so here are these young people who are safe among them also have children who have arrived from the village so they know what it means to fight every day for bread bark and that means just when parents are helped in this way through support. You mentioned and spoke about the figures in Sibenik-Knin County. Of course, sometimes people say don't bother us with numbers, but this way when you hear that it's not about millions anymore, but billions of kunas that have been invested in the Croatian village and in Croatian agriculture, then you can see the importance of all reforms, the importance of what the government has voiced in these years, means especially in the last two years where we have intensified just investing in agriculture and in these reforms we have done for the Croatian village. You also mentioned fishing cooperatives. I am not in my debate wanting to be as short as possible, because already the time in which we are discussing has been delayed, but it is never too much to talk about exactly this topic, I did not mention a particular form of production, a special form of life in the country, which is within the parks of nature Lonjsko polje, within the parks of nature or national parks. In my county there is a nature park Lonjsko polje, in which it is really difficult, I will say hard through special regulations and produce food, but also grow cattle. So there are special regulations from nature protection, and there is the Ministry and culture, and the Ministry of Agriculture has done a great deal to facilitate and make it possible for farmers who work and who produce, who live within the parks of nature and national parks, and they live there from time to time and cannot move out and they don't need to move out, but they should stay, because it's the only survival that the nature parks live and survive, has made it possible, along with a whole series of support and a whole series of investments to get through this specific way and process the country, so here and fishing, you've mentioned in nature parks and people are very busy with freshwater fisheries, so that's another topic that we'll have to open, which we'll definitely end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80127	Final review, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Mr. Stjepan Mikulčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80128	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I will repeat the syntagma, the strength of the arguments cannot dispute anything, and yet I will look back at the previous period that since 2003 the unequivocal agricultural budget has tripled, that in the period in question the state budget barely increased by 50%, hence the Croatian Government in this term and in its previous term with coalition partners has made significant and great efforts to improve agricultural production and Croatian agricultural producers, i.e. our peasants. There is not a single sector of agricultural production where there is no shift, primarily a positive shift made. You will not know through operational programmes to increase livestock production, the production of milk that is almost 25% higher than here before the mandate of the coalition government and the government of the Croatian Democratic Community in the previous term. Through operational programmes and permanent plantations, there are no areas of the municipality or region in Croatia where there are no new olive groves, vineyards, orchards, specifically now is the current season of mandarins. 2003. 20 thousand tonnes was the annual production of mandarin, last year we produced 60 thousand tons of mandarin, 35 of which ended up on the foreign market and we made an exceptional Croatian brand. Parliament representative Grubisic spoke of acceptable storage facilities. By 2003, none of the modern ULO freezers with so-called Here are the controlled conditions, during this period we have made 45 thousand tonnes of new storage facilities and almost total production is stored in our storage areas, and previously we have exported to Slovenia and neighbouring countries to preserve our own existing crop. Thus, no segment, no meat production, no milk production, no fruit growing, and on cereals we are absolutely net exporters in recent years. There was talk here that Croatia imports a lot, that Croatia does not produce enough food for its needs. Absolutely perhaps it is the wrong finding, I will try to explain here that Croatia produces enough food for its needs. Imports of some last year are 2 billion and 300 million dollars, we exported by a billion 400, almost 500 million dollars, but Croatia through tourism, 11 million tourists in Croatia were said here, in the total income of tourism, it is somewhere around 7 billion not dollars, but euros, with 14% participating in the cost of food and drink. When you simply turn it into dollars, then we are unbalanced to say import and export of Croatian agricultural products, but we also have a mild surplus. God forbid we have even more tourists, and this way we can sell our agricultural products, or food and drinks, and all these measures we've taken will make less imports. In other words, I'll conclude. This law is in a sense a point on and is in the transfer of legal property to national legislation. In other words, I will repeat that the common agricultural policy also becomes a Croatian agricultural policy, and the common agricultural policy is a regulated agricultural policy, a systematic policy, means all segments of production, transport, agricultural product placement are taken into account. Such a policy in the European Union has made it possible for the stability and security of agricultural production and, above all, to produce food and our farmers. So here it will be through the financial framework tomorrow, through policy made possible by our agricultural producers. And finally, here is a real thanks for the supported, reasoned support and these amendments to the law, and I want to take advantage of this opportunity to thank you for your support of this which you have given in previous periods of legislation from agriculture, which in any case has enabled the progress and development of Croatian agriculture and agricultural producers, and I have no doubt that this law will certainly be voted on Friday, and will contribute to further improvement of Croatian agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80129	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80130	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support in Agriculture and Rural Development. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 893, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HSS Legislative and Club Committee. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Mr. Stjepan Mikolcic, State Secretary at the Ministry. Please, the Committee on Legislatives on Amendment to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80131	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the government accepts the amendment of the Committee on Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80132	It becomes an integral part of the bill. In accordance with Article 11(1) of
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80133	He accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80134	Everything and... 1, 32, 35, 36, all accepted by the proposing representative. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much. We still have the amendments submitted by the House of Representatives Club of the HSS. Amendment one to Article 15, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80135	The applicant does not accept this amendment, for the reason that the conditions for the exercise of the right of support for meadows and pastures for 2012 will no longer be linked to the keeping of livestock, a more significant increase in the area from meadows and pastures as acceptable and for the support recorded in the ARCOD for the submission of applications for 2011 and more than 100 thousand hectares of the area concerned which are not in the function of livestock production, and by establishing the ratio between the unitary amounts for meadows and pastures and other types of land use compared to 1/4, as the law ensures optimal distribution of available budget resources for those owners, otherwise it would become a risk that, due to the higher expenditure on meadows and pastures, national reserves for sensitive sectors can not be fully paid, and this is precisely these livestock sectors of milk production, to June, and the other sensitive sectors that we have highlighted in so.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80136	Thank you very much. A representative of the club, please. Mr. Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80137	We demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80138	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Please raise your hand. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to Amendment Two, to Article 20, of the same Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80139	The applicant also does not accept this amendment. Article 20 of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 lays down rural development measures to be financed from the national budget for 2012 and 2013 and from the division provided for by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Thus, the existing financial envelopes would in some ways be questionable. Then rural development measures which may be financed by local and regional (regional) government units will be prescribed by a regulation to be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 3 amending certain provisions of Article 6 of the Law, until then there will be no problem for the unit of local and regional self-government if they have co-financed in their programmes and next year measures as indicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80140	Thank you. On behalf of the club Mr. Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80141	So we said in our debate that it would be good for the units to get involved in local self-government, because we will ultimately not be able to achieve what was our priority and goal, and we have done so through our debate and we have said, so we are also looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80142	The vote. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of three of the same motions to Article 26?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80143	The Proposer shall accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80144	This amendment has been accepted. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. And now I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support in Agriculture and Rural Development. Please, let's get involved and vote. This law was adopted unanimously with 77 votes, along with amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80145	We move to the next point - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on cooperation in the protection of money and other values, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 895 State Secretary at the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic will briefly explain the proposal. Here you go. ... He won't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The committees? Nothing. HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80146	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on cooperation in the protection of money and other values shall establish an international legal framework for the achievement of the cooperation of the two States and their competent authorities in the performance of the protection of money and other values through the territory of one of the agreed parties for the purposes of the other Contracting Party. The Agreement lays down the way in which cooperation, rights and obligations of Contracting Parties are handled, the way in which communication is achieved, and the issue of settlement of costs resulting from the achievement of cooperation. The agreement is also an element of further promotion and deepening of mutual cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, the HDZ Representatives' Club supports the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80147	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80148	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on cooperation in the protection of transport, money and other values, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 895. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on cooperation in the protection of transport, money and other values. Let's please get involved and vote on the bill. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 7 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80149	We move to the next item - Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency - Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency Proposer of the Government. State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Jozo Sarac will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80150	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives. The law on energy regulation and the Statute of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency determines how the president and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency are appointed. With this proposal, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is based on Article 16. The Law on Energy Regulatory Activities proposes that the Croatian Parliament be resolved by a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency Dunje Trakostanec Jokić, given the expiry of the term of office to which it was appointed. It also proposes to appoint a new 2 members of the Governing Council and Mr Zdeslav Matic for the period from 1 October 2011 to 30 September 2016, which is a total period of 5 years. And Mr Dalibor Pudic, as a member of the Governing Council, not completed since 1 October 2010, and for the remainder of the term of office until 30 September 2015, which is a total period of 4 years. The criteria for the appointment of members of the Governing Council are laid down by the Energy Regulatory Act and I would like to stress that the proposed candidates meet all legally established criteria. In accordance with the above-mentioned legal provisions, since we propose Mr Matic and Mr Pudic as candidates for members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency in their current work in the energy sector, the proposed candidates are the professional, scientific and business areas in front of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80151	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80152	We move to the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, b) Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Let's please get involved and vote on the motion for resolution. Here is the proposal for a decision adopted by the majority of votes, 73 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and nothing against, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, I am voting on the final proposal of the Decision appointing Zdeslav Matic as a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Let's please get involved and vote on the appointment proposal. The proposal was accepted by the majority of 73 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and nothing against Mr. Zdeslav Matic. I am also voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing Dalibor Pudic as a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Please, let's get involved and vote on Mr. Dalibor Pudic. The result? This proposal was accepted by the majority of votes, 76 votes in favour and one vote abstention, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80153	We're going to another point tonight. - Proposal for a Decision appointing a Deputy Chief State Auditor Proposing a State Audit Office based on Article 9. The Law on the State Audit Office submitted a proposal. Representative General State Auditor Ivan Klešić, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80154	Honored Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. In July 2011, the Croatian Parliament passed a new Law on the State Office for the Audit of the Republic of Croatia. Article 11 of this law says: "The main state auditor has a deputy appointed by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Chief State Auditor at the time of 8 years." It's a finished quote. The name and last name of the candidate as well as his résumé everyone you've got on the screen. Mr. Crescent. Jozo Serdarusic is an employee of the State Audit Office since the draft of this institution in the Republic of Croatia, meaning since 1994. Mr Serdarusic passed through the entire audit path, from the commercial auditor to the senior state auditor, the head of the department in the State Audit Office through the assistant state auditor to the deputy general state auditor in which he was appointed on 1 October 1999. Based on everything I've said so far, based on this Article 11. The Law on the State Audit Office as the Chief State Auditor of the Republic of Croatia, I propose that this House be appointed by Mr Jozo Serdarusic as the Deputy Chief State Auditor of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80155	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Chief State Auditor, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Congratulations on this proposal. The proposal to appoint Jozo Serdarusic as the Croatian Parliament is called Deputy Chief State Auditor is the real proposal. There is no person who is more professionally trained to perform this honorable duty than he is. Who has invested so much in herself, in developing himself for the needs of a state institution. And it has contributed so much to the development of both state institutions and the reputation of the country's audit office and abroad. And why is it important to choose such an experienced man with knowledge and such characteristics and virtues? Because the State Audit is one of the many institutions on which the future of the Republic of Croatia is based. It is an institution dependent on social relations in the Republic of Croatia. That's why it's extremely important to choose the right man. But it's an opportunity to point out something about the work of the State Audit. You have a systematized 307 seats, and filled 277. So 30 places aren't filled. You have such a demanding, demanding, professional and extensive job, and then we have recently passed a law extending your jurisdiction to political activity and promotion, we simply need to think about how to find a way to fill in and be equipped and technically, to find 10 million kunas in a budget with which you would solve all your problems and be operational, efficient, effective and on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. Ten million kunas must not be a problem for such an important institution. Mr. Srdarusic also mastered the topic of state audit standards, he is one of the authors of the book by which he teaches at the Faculty of Economics to the College of Audit, but I think he will contribute even higher levels of efficiency in tandem with the main state auditor. The state audit creates, creates a picture of institutions that use state money but also changes the image of both institutions and individuals, so it is important that the findings of the State Auditions that they are credible and I think in the future there will be no obstacle to being one to the pride of the Republic of Croatia state institution. Although the Law 2002 has excluded the state audit from the Law on the Croatian National Bank that it cannot monitor the work of the central bank, and despite the fact that in many countries, the state audit does so, Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Sweden, Denmark everywhere, the state audit oversees the work of the central bank, and in those countries where it is not supervised in the coming of the crisis such as in Germany, Austria, Italy, the Spanish State Audit has been returned to oversee central banks and those who do not want to sit on the left or right where the state audit oversees all the users of the state budget funds it does not wish well to the Republic of Croatia. That is why we must very quickly approach the amendment of the Law and the State Audit to return it to the central bank's supervision. Otherwise, the master's work of the state auditor doesn't make sense, and then perhaps it should be abolished because he has just mastered the role of state audit in the supervision of the central bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80157	Thank you. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80158	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Chief State Auditors, colleagues and colleagues. It's only two sentences, really. I really commend this proposal by the head of state auditor for his deputy to elect Mr. Srdrusic. In fact, it is really important for us to have quality right people, who know their jobs, who are honorable and Mr. Jozo Serdarusic is really like that, we already know him, I know him, we see him in the House for a whole number of years, and indeed this function in the state audit was performed in the right way and quality, and we need such people. The more state audit is an independent institution, the more freedom it has in its work, the legal we have given it a wide range of jobs, but indeed they are in their business in planning their activities on their own. This independence we have also put in the Constitution in the House, and therefore, Croatia's entry into the European Union will be even more important quality work of state audit and I am safe with our chief state auditor and with Mr. Srdrusic and all those who monitor that we will have a truly one-quality institution so that they will really work quality. I really support this proposal of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80159	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate, terminating the session tomorrow at 9:30 with the final motion for criminal law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-19-0.u80160	Proposal for a Decision appointing the Deputy Chief State Auditor, the Proposer of the State Auditor. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing the Deputy Chief State Auditor. Please, let's get involved and vote. It's Mr.... As I recall. [[You don't understand.]] Here, vote. The proposal was accepted by a majority of 76 votes in favour of, one abstention and nothing against, the text proposed by the state auditor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue to work 24. Sessions of the Croatian Parliament and we move on to the item of the agenda that has been announced, which is - Final proposal of the Penal Code, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 866 Proposer Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
