ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76067	Good morning. Let's start with today's meeting of the Croatian Assembly with the point announced last night, which is - Report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality The Reporter is the Advocate for Gender Equality. The Advocate General delivered this report on the basis of Article 22. Gender equality laws. The government delivered an opinion. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant’s representative wish to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Gordana Lukač Koritnik, lawyer for gender equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76068	Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. The report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2010 is the eighth annual report to be submitted to the Croatian Assembly in this term, detailing all activities of the Ombudsman's Office during the reporting year, and in accordance with the powers and part-time work of a particular Law on Gender Equality. The full report and all the analyses carried out are available on the official websites. At first, I want to point out some statistics on the work of our office. During 2010, a total of 742 cases were opened in 2010 and 77 were transferred from earlier years. The section relates to 333 cases received by complaints from citizens and citizens, of which 294 are new from 2010, which is more by 7.3% compared to 2009 and 39 from earlier periods. 29 new cases from 2010 opened to the Ombudsman's initiative to violate the principle of gender equality or gender discrimination in relation to individuals and individuals, and 380 opened to the Ombudsman's initiative to monitor the application of the Law on Gender Equality, i.e. the basis of a letter from other institutions, organisations or legal persons of which 342 are new from 2010. The complainants were mostly women 79.6%. As in earlier years, the lawyers complained about persons from the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, and most of all from the City of Zagreb 48%, then from other counties, Osijek-Baranja 7.6%, Zagreb 7%, Primorje-goranske 5.7%, etc. Sorted by forms of discrimination were 187 cases of direct discrimination, i.e. 57.9% and 20 cases of indirect 6.2%. This is a total of 207 cases of 31 cases of harassment and sexual harassment. The rest were 84 complaints about domestic violence, 32 complaints that did not contain a form of discrimination or testify to an unequal treatment. Of the 342 cases which were not complaints against citizens and citizens, the cases were opened to the Ombudsman's initiative to monitor and apply the ZORS. In 109 cases, the lawyer gave just as many warnings and three recommendations. Finally, these statistics show that the number of complaints increased by 7.3% compared to '09. the year, that in the most large number refers to sexual discrimination and that it is mostly women. Data also show that people are complaining of indirect discrimination in a relatively small number of cases suggesting that this guarantee has not yet come into practice, i.e. that citizens and citizens have problems with its understanding. The most complaints continue to come about the exercise of labour and social rights, while citizens and citizens are mostly complaining about the conduct of state bodies and other legal persons for whom these authorities are in charge 53.9%. A total of 170 written warnings, 64 recommendations and 9 proposals were sent. Since this is about the activities of the Ombudsman here, I will only mention that I actively participated in the meetings of the Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament, making remarks on the proposals of the laws and it was part of the activities of our office. Besides, during the '10s. of course I came out publicly, warned of discrimination, visited six counties only when I looked at the number of round tables 85 and 10 meetings at international level outside my office, and the number of websites of ours increased by 32%. What I particularly want to point out is that we follow the application of the Law on Gender Equality, we don't just receive complaints, I point out that every year. To follow the law on gender equality as applied, let's say the media provision, you can't do it any other way than analyze the media. Also, if this is an area of education, there is no way to actually monitor it if the textbooks are not analysed every year, we do something about it. Last year we did five independent studies on discrimination. I remind you that according to the 2008 law, it has become our obligation to carry out these researches, so it is not just something we think is good to do but we are simply fulfilling our legal obligation. These studies were from areas of judicial practice, employment and work, education, media and domestic violence. In addition to these studies, we have conducted other analyses that have been followed by the implementation of the ZORS and other regulations concerning gender equality, which in total has been dedicated to a large part of the work of the Office during the year. I would now move to an analysis of the areas of work of our Office and above all to one of the most important areas of employment and work. Appeals sent to the Advocate General during 2010 concerning harassment and sexual harassment at the workplace were brought exclusively by women who had been exposed to harassment and sexual harassment by their workmates, whether they were superiors or co-workers. The most common thing was inappropriate address, demeaning, different forms of blackmail, and unwanted contact that bordered with physical harassment. I believe that the description of the cases found in our report makes it clear how difficult these are for women who experience them. In a number of cases of complaints of harassment and sexual harassment at work... they eventually gave up their request to examine the alleged complaint. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a reason for giving up the complainant, the instructions are undeniable as well as the already intense threat of cancellation and harassment, and sexual harassment, lack of support in the working environment, refusal to testify about harassment, isolation of the complainant, and the lack of commissioners, Commissioners for the protection of the dignity of workers, which is a particular problem in the situation where the employer's responsible person is also the harasser. I must point out that certain employers do not follow the provisions of Article 130 for many years when I am imposed on me as a legal obligation. The labour law which explicitly prescribes an obligation to comply with complaints by workers or workers for violation of dignity to the extent that they have neither appointed a Commissioner or a Commissioner for the matter or have not determined how to carry out the procedure in order to protect the dignity of workers or workers. According to complaints, it can be concluded that the Institute for the Protection of Dignity practically or does not function with a doubtful result because it is the impression that the decision aims to protect the employer from possible charges rather than the victim from harassment. Regarding the labour market, we also carried out an analysis of the implementation of the National Employment Encouraging Plan for the period from nine to ten years. I would single out only by measure if it covered more men than women. The exception is the implementation of measures to build administrative capacity by which more officials were perfected at the Ministry of Administration than employees, since such a structure was employed, that 8 measures found that no woman was included in two or more counties, and that only 5 measures were found to cover both men and women in the area of all counties and the City of Zagreb. The same comes from the prosecutor's analysis of the implementation of the National Employment Encouraging Plan for the ninth year, and the same trend has been seen in earlier years. As it is in the jurisdiction of the County to carry out activities of regional, regional importance in their work, and in particular those relating to their economic development in the Report, I recommend that they engage more in the implementation of annual employment promotion plans and for the development of the entrepreneurship of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in particular for the motivation of women, since they have been sub-represented as beneficiaries of the measures of this National Plan, and to propose that the units of local and regional (regional) self-government of the annual development of additional incentive measures at local level to empower women to involve women in all government programmes. From the analysis of the employment of persons on the Croatian Employment Institute's record for an indefinite and fixed period of time, I would like to see a trend in increasing the number of employees over a period of 8 to 10 years. In 2008, 81% of people on the record were employed for a certain period of time. Ninety-five.5%, and tens of 89.9%, indicating that if the trend continues soon, everyone will be employed for a certain time, contrary to the Labour Act. In 2010, the proportion of women employed indefinitely was 50.3% and 54%, respectively. Furthermore, women are still very often exposed to discrimination based on pregnancy by both individual employers and individual state bodies. Such a course certainly constitutes a violation of the fundamental human right to equality but also directly affects the right of an employed woman to start a family when it is decided. In addition, I still stand behind my earlier findings that working for a certain time has a discriminatory effect especially on pregnant women. Regarding the labour market, our Office conducted a survey on the causes of pay gaps between men and women on the Croatian labour market from October to December 10th and this by researching the system of salaries in three prominent Croatian companies that are dominantly male by number of employees. The study was motivated by very poor public attention to the problem of pay gaps that women and men achieve for work of equal value, especially the flat-rate assessments that often appear in public that the pay gap is the result of deliberate direct discrimination, i.e. the employer's systematic practices that women and men pay differently for the same job. The conclusions of the survey, detailed in the report, indicate that the pay gap between women and men is first not the result of conscious or systematic adverse treatment against women because of their sexuality, but I remind you that the intention of discrimination is not determined in the assessment of whether discrimination has occurred, that this gap is closely linked to horizontal segregation on the labour market. I would specifically single out from the survey that, regardless of the relatively narrow pay gap on the basis of gender at the level of these companies, around 11% at national level of research found that this gap significantly spreads when wages are analysed according to specific job groups, or jobs. There, it should be noted, that the research has shown that it is not rare for women in management positions to earn lower wages than for their colleagues in jobs within the same group. In dominant male companies, the possibility of accessing women to higher levels of the pyramidal structure of jobs within companies is extremely important for the equality of their salaries. The unregulated pay gap in companies that participated in research as I said is significantly lower than the national average precisely because the relatively high share of women is employed in these companies, just employed in jobs that are more professionally demanding and therefore better paid. At the same time, data collected during the research suggest that women are still more significantly sub-represented in management positions despite the fact that more women than men are highly educated. The collected data show that women of age are most likely to earn less than men of the same age on average. This would mean that the gender-related inequality in the distribution of childcare between sexes which places a greater burden on women not only to weaken their competitive position on the labour market but also produces negative effects for their ability to earn. This research I hope will serve in the future primarily employers because it is a completely unexplored area, pay policy is crucial to establishing gender equality. I think what we've been through, since many companies have their share of human resources, could really mean moving one day if they deal with the way they run the pay policy. And our case-law research in anti-discrimination protection is about the good part for the field of labour and employment. During the same period last year, so from October to December, we conducted a study of case-law in the field of anti-discrimination protection aimed at providing basic insight into the way in which Croatian courts interpret and apply some basic anti-discrimination guarantees such as the prohibition of direct discrimination, the prohibition of indirect discrimination or the prohibition of sexual harassment, i.e. gender-based harassment. The investigation came from the assumption that, in terms of understanding the content, i.e. the extent and extent of anti-discrimination guarantees, judicial practice is as important as the legal text itself at the very least. This study aimed to refer to concrete doctrinal solutions related to the application of anti-discrimination guarantees that have developed so far in our case-law. It is particularly important to point out that the research has also tried to provide a constructive analysis of these doctrinal solutions from the point of view of legal views which, with the same anti-discrimination guarantees, have developed through the practice of the European Court of Justice as the highest judicial body in the legal order of the EU. Due to limited financial resources, research had limited scope and was primarily focused on the practice of the Municipal Civil Court in Zagreb, and this included part of the decisions of the County Court in Zagreb. The study also took into account the fact that disputes related to sexual discrimination are still relatively rare. It also covered court decisions in anti-discrimination disputes on the basis of other grounds. Based on this research, it was established that, from January 2005 to December 2010, the municipal civil court in Zagreb was or is still conducting 89 first-degree disputes in which discrimination was in some way raised. I have to say here that this has been quite difficult to investigate since lawyers when they refer to lawsuits do not stress immediately in the label of the case that it is a discrimination suit. Given the fact that judicial decisions on discrimination are still rare, the fact that in one court 80 discrimination disputes can be made surprisingly high. On the other hand, the data should be considered in a broader context and the total number of annual disputes before that court counted in thousands should be taken into account. In this respect, disputes which raise the issue of discrimination represent a negligible share in the whole practice of that court. In the 5-year period covered by this survey, only one dispute has been internally classified as a gender discrimination dispute. It is useful to add to this data the lawyer received from the Ministry of Justice, which opened 33 cases for labour and employment discrimination before the Croatian courts in 2010 and in 2009. 15. But, given that anti-discrimination guarantees in the Croatian legal system have existed since 2000, it is obvious that judicial practice in this area is developing at a slow pace. This can be compared to the data that we receive as an office and it seems that individuals consider the institution of the Advocate's Office to be a useful form of protection of their rights because it has the possibility not only to resolve this dispute through this means but also to verify the justification of their complaints before making a decision to initiate a court dispute. It should be taken into account that the procedure that we are launching does not constitute any cost and that it contains significantly less formalities that should be satisfied. The conclusion of the survey is set out in our report where this research is truly detailed. I really consider it necessary here only to point out the need to ensure that Croatian judges and judges have as many opportunities for professional training in this area as possible, which is particularly relevant to getting acquainted with the practice of the European Court of Justice. About the labour market and the status of women I must also refer partly to the beneficiaries of the benefits during maternity and parental support based on the analysis of the data of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on maternity and parental support, maternity leave from 43 days to the completed 6 months of a child can also be used by a child’s father, an employee or a self-employed parent. From the HZZO data provided, which are shown in the report, I will only provide one information. The maternity leave after 42 days of compulsory maternity leave continued to be used by 28 974 mothers and only 131 fathers and 0.4%, respectively. Comparing data for 2010 with those from 2009 it is evident that the number of fathers who used maternity leave from 43 to the day of child's life in decline. In 2009, there were 0.6%. I therefore believe it can be said that the measure laid down in the national policy to promote gender equality for the period 2006 to 2010 which sets out the need for media campaigns, to promote equal distribution of household and family affairs and equal distribution of parental responsibility for child care, including the promotion of the use of parental leave by fathers in order to more actively involve women in the labour market and to increase the number of fathers benefiting from parental leave did not achieve the desired results. However, the question can also be asked whether the cause of this phenomenon is also the fact that women are still less paid for a job of equal value. Every year in the report, we devote a good deal to domestic violence, and we classicly follow the work of police services, social care centres and health institutions. Police data show that intervention requirements are 2.3% lower than in 2009. However, I would like to highlight some of the facts mentioned in the report on domestic violence. There is no sufficient number of authorised providers of psychosocial treatments, and more than half of the counties in the Republic of Croatia do not have any such expert or expert in their field. In line with the complaint data and our investigation into violence, most victims of domestic violence were first approached by the police. In most cases of domestic violence, police treatment is based on the protocol and police apply the same, so that certain problems observed cannot be considered a rule. But in order to make the police's actions even more effective, and protecting victims better needed in police administrations and police stations to introduce a new workplace for officials and officials to combat domestic violence and against women, and to carry out the education of these officials and officials systematically. What results from these complaints is very clear and that we must conclude that there is no system of measures to support and help victims of violence and their children at the time when the repressive apparatus does its part of the work in the processing of violent persons. It is therefore necessary to really design and build a system of resolving housing issues and hiring victims of violence that often lose their means of life after leaving a violent person. Furthermore, our analysis of the functioning of the Institute of Free Legal Assistance when it comes to victims of domestic violence, but our research has shown that victims of violence rarely or in no way use the Institute of Free Legal Assistance. Due to limited time for this exposure, I am merely referring to our assessments of domestic violence related to the implementation of the family case protocol and the implementation of measures of the National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence. As I have already said, we have carried out research and experience of women victims of domestic violence with the work of the state bodies covered by the protocol in the conduct and case of domestic violence in the study by 333 women who were or are still victims of domestic violence. I would like to conclude here that if we look at the high percentages of abused women who declare that the abusers prevent them from achieving their work role 44% and financially abuse 65% rightly, we can say that domestic violence weakens the economic potential of women and causes their material poverty. At a time when most victims of violence address an institution and this violence usually takes longer, most women make 54% of the first contact with an institution after violence has lasted for more than 10 years on average. Although the range of years is very large and moves up to 31. The fact that, because of domestic violence, the largest number of our respondents had contact with the police and that, most often, they turn to the police, we consider it indicative that they assess the way our society faces this problem. Only when violence escalates to the extent that it directly endangers the life of the victims' physical and material well-being and, in the very situations of extreme events, the problem of violence against women comes to society institutions and they begin to deal with it. About education, we did an analysis of primary school textbooks from history, but we also analyzed over the year and some laws relating to education. The birth analysis is a basic school history textbook based on the provisions of both international and national documents and laws and aimed at establishing their compliance with policy requirements and gender-sensitive education. During the analysis, the biggest problem for authors and authors proved to be the contextualisation of the content relating to victims within the entire historical event. Women and their activities are still being seen and those who understand themselves as men add history. Worse than that is the neglect and total absence of certain major historical topics such as the total absence of patriarchs and the later development of patriarchs. Women got the most space when they were portrayed as wives, widows, sisters, mothers of famous men in the domain of household labor and especially fashion. We have concluded research and recommendations that I hope will be implemented in the future. However, regarding education, I must say one part relating to women of the Roma national minority. Based on the presentation of the Association of Women of Roma Croatia "Better Future" on implementing the recommended measures to improve the conditions for access to education from the publication "Life of Roma women in Croatia with an emphasis on access to education" it can be concluded that a large number of proposed measures are not being implemented, and the main cause is most often referred to as lack of funds. The area of the media is very, very represented and I don't think that these figures should be implemented here right now, but it's no wonder that the Parliament is getting an annual report from our TV that was absolutely as clearly unacceptable to the Parliament and I think that part of the problem is also found in this analysis which is very, very detailed. I must say that the office is related to the programme of measures of the Action Plan for the harmonisation of legislation and the creation of the necessary administrative capacities for the adoption and implementation of the EU acquis in the negotiating area of Chapter 19, strengthened with three new jobs and filled in the tenth year at the end of the year. So, in conclusion, I think that, compared to domestic violence, unfortunately, we cannot say that domestic violence is becoming less intense or that the tenth year has passed without the victims of the most severe form of violence in the family of murder. Of the 18 murder victims committed within the family, 14 women were killed by a male family member. It is obvious that preventive measures still do not produce the desired results. I can't even question the implementation of the National Strategy against Family Violence here right now, but I believe that there are, of course, shifts in the application of the laws on job advertising, statistics, social inequality problems and LGBT people particularly involved. Finally, I would say that the obligation to bring the domestic legal order into line with the acquis of the European Union does not only cover the obligation to harmonise legal norms but also the obligation to apply these legal norms in the light of the values and objectives that these provisions serve in the legal order of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76069	Thank you. Does a representative of the board want to take a word for it? Yeah. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76070	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney General, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. At its 50th session, the Committee on Gender Equality discussed the 2010 report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality. In the opening statement, the Ombudsman presented a review of the office's work, saying that during 2010, it worked overall on 742 cases of which 655 were opened last year. She stressed that in the past year there were 7.3% more complaints than the year before and that part of the case was opened to the prosecutor's initiative as well. She stressed that her office had strictly adhered to the Law on Gender Equality and that she was active in the sphere of its jurisdiction. She provided information on the areas where the office worked, as well as on the research carried out and, among other things, a study on court practice in the field of anti-discrimination protection, on the pay gap between men and women on the Croatian labour market and on their causes, and concluded that there is a significant difference in salaries that lies primarily in structural barriers to women's equality. Birth analyses of media content were made, which is essentially only systematic and deals with the Attorney's Office, and an analysis of primary school history textbooks was made to identify gender stereotypes. There was also short information on the state of the labour and employment market and pointed out that the Ombudsman received numerous complaints about sexual harassment at work by women who then very often gave up on the same grounds of being fired, that there is often discrimination against pregnant women in the field of work, and that the issue of employment has fallen somewhat, but only because the unemployment of men has increased. Regarding the issue of violence against women and in the family, the Ombudsman stressed that she disagreed with the government's remarks on the area received on the report. In the debate followed by the members and members of the board, they supported the Ombudsman's report stressing the particular importance of the individual depth analyses that the office did last year, especially when it comes to the analysis of history textbooks. The debate further stressed that this report was obviously the result of both the staff and the financial strengthening of the offices, which was one of the conditions for closing Chapter 19. Social policy and the employment of negotiations with the European Union, as well as the fact that the Government's opinion on the report cannot read any fundamental remarks. The Government's representative further clarified the government's opinion, which was agreed by individual committee members. After the debate was held, the Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76071	Thank you. It was the Committee on Gender Equality, the Honorable Gordan Sobol is the chairman of the committee. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities also discussed the problem. Anybody want some? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76072	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This is how the eighth-largest report of the Ombudsman for gender equality as well as all previous reports has already been highlighted, and this will be accepted by the SDP club immediately at the beginning of the regret, and the lack of understanding of the fact that this is the last such report, which as the special authority of the Croatian Parliament, the Ombudsman submits to this same Assembly because the Government led with Jadranka Kosor, however, made a decision that the three special defenders' offices should be abolished and utopia in the Office of the Public Attorney, which is here both yesterday and the day before yesterday we discussed in this House. We can only assume that someone in the government is tired of writing opinions and responding to the facts mentioned in this report, and an even greater problem seems to be to follow recommendations and overcome the difficulties that exist in the implementation of certain areas. Then the result is that we also get the opinion of the Government in which, on the one hand, there are no fundamental remarks, but in which there is not one reply to certain findings and recommendations in this report, let alone an indication of what is meant to be done, and that certain and very concrete measures we have written down and we have in our countless and policies and strategies and implemented in action. That is why it also happens in this report that individual assessments and conclusions and recommendations made by the Ombudsman have been repeated for several years. Those who follow these reports, which are here and for years, when you compare the report, when you compare conclusions and recommendations, you may encounter some that are repeated year by year, which only means that the government obviously does not recognise them as important that some shifts are made. Also, we in the SDP point to another fact, which is that, in our opinion, the government was manifested in the most or almost entirely only to the part relating to domestic violence, which certainly is one of the areas where women are discriminated against and one of the most important areas in the fight against discrimination against women, but certainly is not the only one. And besides, in the government's opinion, and in the area at issue, some facts and some incomplete information that they finally give the wrong picture. As far as I'm concerned, I'm just going to single out the psychosocial treatment of the perpetrator of a violent crime where the government here lists how many experts we have, where all cities are undergoing psychosocial treatment. But that is not true, we have a number of experts, but since half of 2009, psychosocial treatment has been done only in Zagreb, Rijeka and Zadar. In Zagreb and Rijeka because it covers local self-government and in Zadar through Caritas thanks to funds from the state budget. Yesterday at the Justice Department, a meeting was finally held with representatives of associations and individuals dealing with psychosocial treatment and when a settlement was offered on behalf of the Government, please a settlement amounting to 820,000 kuna in order to pay that amount as a debt to those who did psychosocial treatment and claims are greater than 2 million kuna. So it would be fair and fair to state that fact. So we have one side of the law, legal possibilities. On the other hand, we have experts and experts who will do this and do it, and on the third hand, we have a problem that someone in one ministry in this case, the Ministry of Justice, thought that it was not important that contracts be concluded and that people who conduct psychosocial treatments would work on beautiful eyes and, of course, it would not. So it's just one of the segments, and since it's already given an opinion, then it'd be good to say what it's all about. Other areas when it comes to the position of women and the unequal position as if they don't exist. What about the position of women in the labour market? He was particularly apostrophed by the attorney general. What, for example, about a certain segregation in the education system? What about the pay gaps? We've got research now. What about the issue of gender perception in the media especially when it comes to public or public television or radio? It turns out, therefore, that based on the Government's view that these areas are not important enough to be seen, in which concrete measures should be identified, on which existing measures should also be reconsidered, because we have some place in our policies and strategies of the measures recorded. But it's obvious that they are or have not been spent or are partly spent or not yielding results. So give us time to see what we can change here. And of course, the question arises what does it mean for the government to achieve gender equality and we ask the question when, from the field of gender equality promotion, we will finally shift to the sphere and real implementation and integration of gender equality policies in all our areas – economy, policy, or political decision-making at all levels, education, education, culture, media, sport, etc. etc. Because really after 16 years of the Beijing Declaration, 8 years since the adoption of the first Law on Gender Equality, 15 years since the first national policy, we are still obviously unable to do so because we still wanted to admit it or not it is still easy to be strong at the declarative level but in practical implementation we cannot do more significant steps. However, in line with this practice as a normal policy sequence of this Government, there is also the announced drowning of the Office and this Advocate General in the Office of the Attorney General, the complete loss of its current independence, and the placing out of force of the entire parts of the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination adopted in this Parliament three years ago as organic laws. Several references to some of the findings in this report first when it comes to the position of women on the labour market. The share of women in unemployment today is 53.6%. The unemployment rate is 20.4%, men 16.1%. The rate of work for women is only 40%. When employed mostly, they are employed for a certain period of time, which naturally causes a whole other set of obstacles. Reduced ability to start a family, increase the possibility of getting laid off in pregnancy, inability to borrow credit, housing, etc. When they are employed and in Croatia on average are less paid between 11% and 23%. That shows all the state statistics we have. And the attorney general's research shown in this report shows that this difference is not the main culprits of employers. We always know there's so little right now that they're guilty, but there are structural obstacles that women experience as a whole that are in principle subject to the interests and needs of men. One of the great causes of less employment and less wages than women lies in their education. In fact, although women represent a more educated part of Croatian society than the total number of graduates at our universities 58.6% are women, of the total number of magistrates 58% are women, of the total number of doctors in science 47% are women. But traditionally they continue to focus on activities that are less paid in society through humanistic, social, biological, educational sciences, and too little on those who bring money. It is generally business, management, or the field of information, which is essentially a problem that is present in the education system because we still do not have such policies that will sort of direct both girls and boys to choose, to raise, to educate and to choose occupations that are not recognised in society as a typical female or as a typical male. Most unfortunately women make up in those most vulnerable sectors, for example in the textile industry whose shutting down during 2010 passed both in front of the eyes and these governments without particular concern because in Croatian society it is worth the syntagma, one of our colleagues said that the unemployed male is a problem and the unemployed woman is a housewife. All of this is later, of course, reflected on the pension system, causing fewer pensions of women, so let's say the average retirement of women 508 kuna is lower than men's pension or the average disability pension of women is 1013 kuna less than men's pension. And we at the SDP club once again and for this report we remind ourselves of last year's adoption of the Pension Insurance Act when we went, when it was adopted to go towards equalising retirement for women, conditions for retirement for women and men. Because as this is where we need to be equal, and if we should pass a law that may be regulated by the mandatory use of parental leave for fathers at some time, then it can't because it would seem to cause some kind of earthquake within Croatian society, and so we're actually constantly calling for something traditional, something patriarchal, something that's common in our society, but it seems to us that this should stop being an excuse when it comes to women and men's equal policies. And something else about this early departure, there's one problem that has come up and this government doesn't want to solve, to me it's explicitly... , and this is that because of the discrepancy with the Employment Intermediation Act this year, the following years behind a number of women, not 5, 10 or 50 but more than hundreds of women at the Croatian Employment Service will not be able to make a fee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, according to the old law, they came to the Employment Service, got a decision that entitled the day to retire, but now that the law has changed they have extended the possibility of going to retirement, but for these few months they do not receive compensation. I've been told by Secretary of State Rogman on my direct request that we're sorry, it's missed, but now there's no more money. As far as the issue of violence is concerned, it is a large area in which we have been warning in the SDP for years, and it is now shown from the number of these few years that much has been done in a legislative sense, in the strategies that have been adopted, in the protocols that have been adopted and changed, adapted, etc. But the number of violent behaviors is constant. The last few years of constants. So we've all achieved together that we've raised domestic violence from home, or from some 4 walls out, but we're still losing the battle with preventive action when it comes to violent behavior. And finally, on behalf of the SDP club, I would like to particularly apostrophe the problem of the LGBT population, where the lawyer also points out that there is a problem with social inequality. We are witnessing the existence of homophobia in Croatian society which unfortunately appeared most in this last gay arrival or the first gay come to Split. And we argue in the SDP that the responsibility for such an escalation of violence and hatred that has broken down from our citizens of different ages is the responsibility of the government, because it has failed all these years to educate, educate through various programmes of peace, non-violence, tolerance, respect for diversity. And we wonder when we look at the young generations and their expressions of intolerance that we actually have and how we have raised all these 20 years. And finally, we want to repeat, in fact, by supporting the Ombudsman, and this report just repeats a sentence she said in her final statement that Croatia has been making intensive adjustments to the domestic legal order with the EU acquis in recent years. Many of the legal provisions we have made thanks to this and in areas of gender equality
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76073	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76074	But it should not forget that we are not and do not only have the obligation to harmonise legal norms but also the obligation to apply these legal provisions in the light of the values and objectives that these provisions serve in the legal order of the EU. And Croatia today is part of this legal order.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76075	Thank you very much. We have four corrections of incorrect allegations. First of all, she's a respected representative of Đurjica Sumrak, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76076	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Attorney General, Secretary of State. Well, it's so unfair and incorrect that my colleague Sobol's incorrect claims are misleading the public. The first incorrect claim, which has been insisting on this for months, they have extended that the Ombudsman, that is, the prosecutor’s office for gender equality, be abolished. It's simply not true, regardless of your hysteria about it. Secondly, I need to tell you the psychosocial treatment... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76077	Don't throw it out of the bench, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76078	Psychologically, as far as a fellow psychosocial treatment is concerned, it is not true that it is only in one city, we must say that, in addition to the Psychological Assistance Society in 2010, a total of 30 licensed legal and physical persons conducted psychosocial treatment in Split, Rijeka, Osijek, Zadar, Dubrovnik, Slavonski Brod, Djakova, Varazdin, Novska and Mali Losinj.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76079	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76080	Check that out and see.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76081	The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76082	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, I would correct, I can't make it, but a number of incorrect allegations from a colleague who crashed into the government because the government says he doesn't want to follow recommendations, there's no indication what he wants to do, by the Government of Recommendations are not recognized or important, he doesn't recognize the perception of women in the media etc. If none of this government has really done much to gender equality, from the legislative framework to the establishment of the Gender Equality Office. And how does he treat the media, how? It is best seen how MPs behave in their statements at press conferences regarding women to women in the media. As far as tolerance is concerned there's no program, there's a program. Of course they have to adopt and it's all one development process. And in the end, you're in your own word because you say it's really been a lot, but we still have to do a lot of work, and that's why there's a lawyer for gender equality with your report and with your recommendations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76083	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76084	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I've set out two incorrect allegations from the House of Representatives when she says in her last speech that it's government responsibility when she talks about parades, etc. It is really incorrect because we are all citizens and citizens in Croatia, and we know how much the government actually places on tolerance. As an incorrect allegation when it says that the government does not consider it necessary to manifest itself to other segments of this report but only violence. So it is the fellow government that explains this part because it is considered to be really from the report as a neural point of view since it has estimated that these segments should be explained as much as the opinion does in relation to the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76085	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivan Škaričić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76086	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would correct my colleague Sobol in the quote when she said that escalating violence on a gay parade in Split was the fault of the Croatian government because she had not educated the citizens enough. It's a contradictory and pointless statement. Because the parade in Zagreb so these citizens were educated, and the citizens of Split were not educated, as if we were not living in the same country, as if we were not living under the same sun. So I think it's a completely missed claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76087	Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. It is next to the HDZ Club of Honorable Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76088	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable attorneys, state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club discussed the 8th report submitted by the lawyer for gender equality to the Croatian Parliament. Under the Law on Gender Equality, the Ombudsman shall carry out the tasks of an independent body responsible for combating discrimination in the field of gender equality. We must stress that promoting gender equality is the fundamental value of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. It is evident that during 2010, 742 cases were open in 2010 and 77 cases transferred from earlier years. Out of 742 cases, 333 cases have been filed following complaints from citizens related to the violation of the principle of gender equality. It is subject to complaints from citizens and citizens concerning infringements of the principle or discrimination on the basis of sex in relation to individuals and individuals, as well as cases open to the Ombudsman's initiative to monitor the application of the Law on Gender Equality or the basis of a letter from other institutions, organisations or legal persons. By gender, the complainants were 66.3% women and 13.3% women, and 10% men and 1.9% men. The number of complaints increased by 7.3% compared to 2009 and relate mainly to sexual discrimination where women are the most vulnerable. The D.A. sent 170 written warnings and 64 recommendations. Disturbing and sexually harassing at the workplace is discrimination, and it mainly referred to women as inappropriate address, for example, she looked good when she was skinny, she looks good wearing a brooch on a lapel, etc. In fact, in the Republic of Croatia, 60% of citizens are aware that there is a problem with gender equality. However, only 12% of citizens are familiar with the Law on Gender Discrimination and the existence of practical discrimination in the environment in which we are. I'm sorry the D.A. didn't react to discrimination against our representative, Mrs. Petyr. Namely, according to Article 25. The Law on Discrimination, a colleague, was discriminated against both by religious and marital status. She was getting messages of really ugly content that talk about hate. That's not what I was hoping my colleague would live to see. Although I must say, she has experienced discriminatory discrimination from minority to media. In media where incorrect texts towards her from wearing a cross and having her own cross. Gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, we all have a cross to carry, not just a colleague named Petyr. And in that sense, this discrimination she experienced, I'm sorry that you didn't react as a lawyer for gender equality. There were examples of discrimination against a woman and we recently experienced this at a press conference where a respected representative used it for political purposes. I'm so sorry it happened. There were examples of different forms towards women to unwanted contact. In doing so, women do not find support in the working environment, and in the workplace they do not respect labour law decisions because there is no Commissioner or Commissioner for the protection of the dignity of workers. If the worker decides to sue for discrimination, he will meet with a long-term trial and a uncertain outcome with the employer. In the HDZ Club, we have particularly condemned discrimination in employment based on pregnancy, which discriminates against women's right to start a family, the right to pay for complications in pregnancy. Let's not forget that motherhood is a constitutional category. The labour law prescribes the duration of maternity leave that enters the work experience for which further progress in the service, additional vacation days and other rights is linked. The maternity parents can use the fathers, but unfortunately, as we have seen from this report, it is the use of the crash. The report seeks to sensitize the public on the problem of pay gaps between men and women for work of equal value in direct discrimination, the most hard-line form of women's inequality in Croatian society which is indeed hard-core but fixed and generally accepted practice of behaviour. According to the State Statistics Institute, the unregulated gap at the entire market is 11.8%, of course, of what is then re-percussed on women's pensions. However, let us not judge and attribute it only to the Republic of Croatia. This pay gap exists throughout Europe, so also in other European countries. We know that the European Court of Justice has made requirements regarding the definition of salaries, for example, wages must be determined solely by the degree of demand of a particular job, the variable part of the salary must be defined and not be disproportionately high in relation to the basic part of the salary, men and women must have equal employment opportunities without traditional perception of male and female work. The report shows the subordinated position of women on the labour market, but also the possibility of developing positive existing measures to achieve equality between men and women on the labour market. We have aligned the legislation with EU legislation but in practice it is obvious that Croatian judges, lawyers and lawyers do not have enough experience and there is uncertainty in the interpretation of anti-discrimination guarantees. So we should all work together because that 12% that applies to all citizens is particularly about the profession or some institutions. Analysing the national plan to encourage employment for the period 2009-2010, the Ombudsman found that men were more covered than women. The eight measures found that no woman was included in two or more counties, and only five measures covered men and women. Out of the total number of unemployed in December 2010, there were 172940 unemployed women, so by 4.7% more than in 2009. The highest percentage of unemployed women is 14.3% in the 25-29-year group, so one major potential for the Republic of Croatia. The education programmes in cooperation with the Croatian Employment Office included 75.6% of women of whom 13.3 were employed. The Croatian Democratic Community club discussed a special part of domestic violence. The above data show that this is no longer a taboo topic that once existed. Police last year reported 16564 perpetrators of domestic violence. Of the 10549 proposed safeguard measures, police carried out 1029 protective measures, banning the approach of victims of violence, banning the harassment or stalking of a person exposed to violence, and distance from the apartment, house, or other living space. Therefore, a trend in the rise in the protection measures imposed and implemented has been observed. One of the measures is psychosocial treatment for which unfortunately there is still insufficient number of authorised providers. However, 78% of victims of the most severe form of violence are women. Most women, 54% of the first contact with an institution, police or welfare centre, is established after violence has lasted for years, on average for more than 10 years, and there are known cases of even moving for up to 30 years. The birth analysis of textbooks indicates the difference between gender representation in the higher representation of male subjects, and women prevail in the category of women wives of course of historical personality, according to the Ombudsman. We have to admit that all stereotypes stem from the historical development of society. We encounter traditional male and traditional female occupations. Personal analysis is dedicated to the media. In Dnevnik 1 guests were men, in 92%, in Dnevnik 3 HTV 90%, in Novi 87%, and if you noticed women who appear are always the same. You have noticed if family issues are discussed, some social topics are mostly more frequent women, and important political issues, and then there are men on TV. Often we also witness different sexisms in the media that refer exclusively to sex, not referring to the Law on Gender Equality. The government’s president often spoke of it, as well as her own reaction to these examples. Following documents relating to women’s health is an extremely important campaign to prevent uterine cancer. The year gets 400, dies about 100 women, and the Republic of Croatia is the only country outside the European Union that has received the award "The Pearl of Wisdom" second time, which is awarded to countries that have achieved the most on the plan of education and prevention of women's cancer from uterus cancer. We have breast cancer prevention, 99 percent of the total population is called. From 50 to 69 years of age, 59% were reported and 1500 cancers were detected. And finally, colleagues and colleagues, according to the Law on Gender Equality, gender equality means that women and men are equally present in all areas of public and private life, that they have equal status and equal opportunities to achieve all rights as an equal benefit to the results achieved. To achieve this, education from the earliest youth is needed. Yeah, the removal of stereotypes, but not just that. I am extremely pleased that the quota law has been passed and we must take advantage of that right now. A 40% quota of women present on lists, not only for elections to Parliament, but for elections to the local community and also for decision-making sites in companies, so to other bodies. Because it's the only way that women can be more equal, that I can decide more because you know where that equality is achieved the most, where it's decided and where the money is. So close to the state budget, close to other budgets, either banks or some firms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76089	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76090	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry to have to correct my colleague Caparin, and I think she must have said it in good faith, but I think it's incorrect to assume that part-time attorney for gender equality is the protection of politicians. It's not. So everyone, not everyone, but many of us, certainly including me, were either in different ways or at least feeling hurt by different statements both here in the Parliament and in the public, but politicians do public work and defend themselves by their public appearance. A lawyer for gender equality cannot and should not protect politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76091	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76092	A colleague injured Article 209. I didn't say at all that a lawyer should be protected by a politician. She needs to protect a woman, that woman can be a politician, that woman can be both a director and a cook, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76093	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. It's next to the HNS-HSU club, the distinguished representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76094	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Attorney, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Gender equality is one of the highest values of the constitutional order in the Republic of Croatia. The lawyer's task for gender equality is contained in monitoring the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality and Other Regulations on Gender Equality, so we have today in the debate and its eighth report on labour for 2010. Discrimination and violation of the principle of gender equality may occur in any sphere of life. In practice, gender discrimination in the field of employment and labour, in family relations, in political life, in education, in the media, in the unfair share of parents in child care and in child care decisions is still present in our country. The Advocate General’s Report for Equality for the past 2010 shall be based on the provision of Article 5. The ZORS according to which gender equality means that women and men are equally present in all areas of public and private life, that they have equal status, equal opportunities for the achievement of all rights and equal benefit from the results achieved. The 2010 Work Report detailed all activities of the Advocate's Office for Gender Equality during the reporting year. Here are a few sentences I'll tell you about some of the areas mentioned in the report. The first area is for us in HNS, HSU, of exceptional importance, and it is about work and employment. In the field of labour and employment, gender discrimination is still strong. Women are still in a much worse position because they make up a higher percentage of the unemployed, working in less paid places. That's where I'd add the D.A. brought up the pay gap between women and men from 11% to something. But if you look at the analysis that's on myjob portal, that difference is 23%. They have fewer pensions. The share of women in the highest leading positions is still more than insufficient. The higher the hierarchical ladder, the smaller the women, even though they graduate from colleges. Working contracts should be a rule indefinitely, and it is unacceptable that in most cases they have replaced atypical, or contracts with a limited period of time. If we know that the safety and quality of the professional career of each individual makes and the form of employment, the question is what stability of the state in social terms we are building today in our country. Contracts for a certain period of time have already been the dominant form of employment, and in this form of employment women are also participants in 2010 to a greater extent than men. The question is what are the inspections that are required to verify whether the employer has rightly employed the worker on such a contract. Since there is no or insufficient institute of work at a certain time, by our conviction in a large number of cases is being abused in a way that creates an increasing group of employees who have significantly less rights both at work and outside of it. Those rights are already spoken of today, I won't repeat them. The areas of education and education with the family are the starting and most important areas in which equal opportunities should be provided for visibility, empowerment and participation of both sexes in public and private life. A few words about textbooks, and this has already been the case today, whose contents are of particular importance in removing or strengthening the stereotyped understanding of the relationship between men – women or their role. The example set by the Ombudsman in the report is almost amazing that some textbooks received a green light from the basis of birth sensitivity. Known women such as rulers, scientists, artists if not ignored very often are first mentioned as someone's mothers, wives, widows, daughters, and only then because of their personality, skills, talent, knowledge. Can it be an acceptable textbook of history from which our children today learn that mentions our great and best children's stories writer Ivana Brlić-Mažuranić as well as to date popular Maria Jurić Zagorka, writer, journalist and female rights activist? In the same author, for example, Alexander of Macedonia's horse gets a very large space. In the same authors, the courage and firmness of Margaret Thatcher in the sphere of world politics is enhanced without any explanation of what these qualities were, and in the field of domestic policy, it is shown, for example, a photo of the rally in the 1972 square with Mrs. Savka Dabčević Kučar without writing the name of such an important and significant person. Today's kids don't know who that big woman was, and it's time for the photos to show who she was. The great ruler of the historic inevitable Maria Teresa is most often shown in the stereotype of the first and only woman on the throne of the Habsburg monarchy married to Francis of Lotarian and Mother of 16 children. It's all true, but this woman, the ruler, has changed the state's constitution for her reforms. Should the first plan include, for example, the fact that a royal academy was launched in Croatia at its time in which a philosophy, theological and legal college was launched? Today, in public, almost all of us stand for gender equality. If this is indeed the case, we ask for a review of such textbooks in a way that starts historical research and study towards the role and position of women in history that will certainly redefine gender relations, so new generations will learn from more acceptable textbooks. A few words about violence or domestic violence. Violence and domestic violence as one of the most pronounced forms of violence is today a fact that we are trying to deal with. What is the cause of violence is difficult to answer in one sense, but it is certain that violence often results in violence, such as a series of examples, and shows that children are raised in the atmosphere of domestic violence often violently, and when they start and start their own family, they use similar or similar models of behavior. This responsibility other than the family is borne by both states, therefore the problem should be handled in an organised state system that will spotlessly and safely provide victims of violence, but also provide quality psychosocial assistance and support both to the victim and to the bully. In this situation, civil society assistance is welcome, but the problem needs to be treated and solved by professional institutions that are staff and financially equipped institutions that are subject to regular professional and any other control. In the examples cited by the Ombudsman, there is evidence that there are gaps in the procedures that treat domestic violence both social centres and employees of the MUP, as well as courts. They're rare, but here they are. In accordance with the powers laid down by the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman shall give warning and recommendation and even repeated in some examples. It would also be important to know publicly about what happened to the employees of the offenders, whether they were subject to sanctions for a work violation, in such a sensitive problem as the suppression of domestic violence. In particularly difficult cases of domestic violence, the victim should also be physically isolated in shelters or safe houses. Victims most often involved in women and their children are highly traumatized persons who must be in the constant psychosocial treatment of experts of all the necessary species. So isolation yes, but within the framework of institutions that are able to provide and fully provide victims of psychological support, to find an apartment and a job, and to ensure mandatory treatment for a bully. A few words about the media. We are aware of the fact that, apart from providing information, media play a huge role in raising, education especially of children and young people, so they are rightly in the focus of the attorney's interest as well as anyone who advocates gender equality, what kind of picture we have from that area. It is a very worrying fact that media employees, especially television companies, are not sufficiently understanding the issue of gender equality, which is accompanied by the fact that in 2010, there were 47% fewer issues related to gender equality compared to 2007. The subject of gender equality must be spoken systematically and continuously, rather than on appropriate dates and in a slow manner. Sexism in advertising and in advertising that women and men display in an offensive way should be publicly condemned and not allowed to display. An astounding and inadmissible attempt by the TV house to justify themselves in the freedom of advertisers. Advertisers of their advertising and messages must be aware of the legal provisions on advertising. Insulting stereotypan and demeaning way of showing women and men in the media supports the discriminating value system and contributes to social relations that prevent equal participation of women and men in private and public life. Gender equality is not achieved, of course, in political life. The women are still... both the highest authorities of political parties and at all levels of governance and decision-making from the local committee to the Parliament and the Government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The big problem is that women are running for office, and we're on the trail of that solution, so we're going to see the results of this election. A report shall also be submitted by the Advocate’s Office in its composition. Finally, I will say that the HNS club, HSU, will support this report, because we evaluate it with very high quality and professional material, which has exhaustively and objectively presented the situation in the field of gender equality, and the recommendations, opinions and actions of the Advocate's Office have actually traveled the way for tomorrow, in basic terms and tasks to strengthen gender equality in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76095	Thank you. It is next to the HSS club, the distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76096	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Madam Attorney, Mr. Secretary of State. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club examined with great interest the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2010, comparing it with the phenomena of discrimination in society, and concluded that the Ombudsman for gender equality did not fully respond to the challenges put before it. Not entering individual cases and understanding their importance, we must point out in the HSS club that the Ombudsman did not represent all vulnerable groups in the same way as neither their rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, international documents, the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. The Ombudsman was extremely active at numerous conferences in the country and abroad, with public hearings by the attorneys in certain cases being overemphasised, while in some other situations the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on the Discrimination of Prosecutors' Discrimination, unfortunately, did not respond. In the report, the Ombudsman made serious remarks on the work of individual state authorities, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its opinion, in most of its opinion, denied and rejected, which shows the need for... through the cooperation of the Advocate General and other State bodies which play a key role in countering discrimination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The subjects the lawyer handled are extremely important and sensitive, whether as a result of the citizens' application, or open to its initiative. The most complaints continue to come about the exercise of labour and social rights, and citizens and citizens are largely complaining about the conduct of public institutions and other legal persons for whom these bodies are competent and this certainly presents a major challenge in the next period. Protecting fundamental human rights and promoting the equality of individuals, regardless of religion, sex, race, ethnicity, is one of the fundamental values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and discrimination on any basis is unacceptable. Every person has the right to freedom of opinion, conscience and religion. It is often in practice that these fundamental rights are also questionable. In some cases, what many recognize as a conflict of rights is, and some call terror a loud minority over the silent majority, which has been particularly evident in the Republic of Croatia in recent days. What does that tell us? This tells us that this conflict cannot be solved only by the letter of the law but above all by building a more tolerant society in which its members will treat one another with respect and understanding. This means that no person should be discriminated against in any way or even worse by verbal or physical abuse simply because it is different in any sense. Respect and understanding of all human rights is still a goal towards which we progress much slower than we would like. The fact is that neither society nor humans can change overnight according to a directive. An internal change that will be true when every human being will be respected in its dignity requires much more time than that cosmetic outside imposed by some regulation. In addition, because of discrimination, individuals and some social groups may be exposed to direct violence, marginalisation and ultimately segregation, this phenomenon also has a negative impact on the entire society in which, if tolerated, prejudices and kicks support human rights violations, which destroys social cohesion necessary for the smooth functioning of a society. Today, when everything is relativised, and the liberalisation that has deeply affected Croatian society leads to the separation of the system of values. I will remind you again of the importance of a family made up of father, mother, and children. The family is a fundamental place for the growth of total values of every human person, every nation, finally whole society. Family is a place of birth, maturation, and growth, a place where people are expected to treat each other generously. Family is a universal social institution, but it's also fundamental because without it, society can't function. Our family teaches us what kind of people we need to be. Today, though, we live in a time of serious family crisis. Parents not only don't have time for their children, they don't have it for each other as well as for themselves. Many institutions, as well as the media, as if they were trying to undermine their own rules and announcements at every turn instead of supporting them. As an integral part of this family, women became the most vulnerable group. Women, along with the daily organization of family life and care for each family member, often do what shows to be excellent managers. But rather than being respected, some are exposed to sexual harassment in the workplace, some are disabled in progress, some are thrown away by a leprosy because they think with their own head and dare to say so publicly, and some even get beaten by those who should love them. In the field of labour and employment, as we see in the report, discrimination still exists and women are in a much worse position. When talking about a job, women are discriminated against on the basis of marital and family status, they are asked how many children they have, whether they intend to have children, marry, etc. Women still make up a higher percentage of unemployed people, work in less paid places, have fewer pensions. The share of women in top executive positions is still below 10%. The higher the hierarchical ladder, the smaller the women, even though they graduate from colleges. About women in public life, especially politicians who I have to say are also women because we heard here a colleague who said that politicians are not women that they are politicians, so in particular politicians in the media are more often spoken of in a trivial and disdainful context than their male colleagues, and women do not even get enough serious media space to topic on their profession compared to men. We're not looking for special treatment for women. We're looking for equal treatment. And we're not looking for new sanctions, there's too many of them. Laws cannot patch up holes that have been created permanently because of lack of education and loss of trust and humanity. We Christians have not forgotten that the awareness of human rights and the awareness of human dignity is closely linked to the European cultural circle. Man is created in the image of God, and by this likeness of God, he has an inalienable human dignity that surpasses his sexual, gender, racial, religious, and moral rightness. The spread of prejudice that contributes to discrimination between individuals and social groups builds walls among people, sows mistrust and favours the spread of violence directly or indirectly, physically or verbally. How mature we are as a society shows how willing we are to accept and respect others who differ according to their characteristics or attitudes because they too have the same human rights that are not to be violated. Therefore, with the prevention of discrimination, it is also necessary to sanction discriminatory behaviour in order to combat it more effectively and to make it clear to everyone that such behaviour is completely unacceptable and that Croatian society wants to build its future on a healthy basis which implies respect for the diversity that in many segments is in fact a positive fact and enriching and contributes to the further development of society. However, it must not be forgotten that the Croatian society did not come yesterday but that they formed it and became its constituent and traditional value, such as the family, as we know it, and that it should accordingly seek its way within the European context, not easily reject it under the pressure of any modernity, any other factors, or because someone asked for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76097	Thank you. That's what ended the club debate. We're moving on to an individual discussion. The first is the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The second is the honourable representative of Jerko Roshin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76098	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. I prepared myself for this debate by thinking that the topic deserved a lot of attention, and then I thought I'd give up the debate in fact there's no one who would listen to the debate or those who are there and don't listen, so the question is who I'm talking to. But then I remembered that there must be, there's a television broadcast so that at least someone on TV will hear, I hope, among other things, my wife who is interested in this topic, not just because I'm showing up, but because the topic is interesting. And what's interesting is that after five women were talking about this subject, a man appeared who was talking about the subject. I don't know if it's supposed to read anything about my sexuality or something, but I think as a man, I have a right to say something on this subject. The problem of gender equality is from the beginning of the world. There's talk Adam had this privilege of being born first and being first, but the woman had this privilege of bringing him first into sin so then this relationship between then and today if they let it... A burden in all that together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course I've prepared myself for the subject, but what's being said here in the meantime encourages some adjustment of the subject, and that's why I'd start with my colleague Sobol, who's very active in the field of gender protection, which I'm expressing as a compliment, not as a negative side. But from what she said, I can read some things differently, so I'd like to explain, at least as well as I understand it on purpose. She said one sentence that was not new, which others said an unemployed man is a problem, and an unemployed woman is a housewife. I'd just give one difference in interpretation. If we're talking about my wife... then she's like a housewife too busy. Therefore, I would not say that she is unemployed but very busy but is not in a working relationship if that is the definition she should have been given. And in the fact that she's an overworked woman, I believe she's largely filled in what she does in her life but probably unfulfilled in what she might still want because she doesn't arrive and there's no possibility. On the other hand, I'm busy being filled with what I'm doing, very pleased, but maybe I'm being denied something I didn't meet because I didn't make it. So it's only employment and unemployment that is one of the elements of the right to employment and gender equality, but it's not what makes the core of that problem. I'll get to what I think is important, but I'd start with a certain experience when we talk about reports here all very often in different ways of reporting talks. In my opinion, the first thing to talk about is the quality of this 8th report. The report was made very detailed, everything that was done was collected. The only question is the interpretation of the data that has been entered, of which someone has qualified them with greater or less satisfaction or conclusions that result from whether they are real or not and whether they can read differently and whether there may be something else that could be further emphasized or mentioned. The second is the content of the report. The content of the report is always viewed in a certain way as a illustration with the previous report, to see what has changed significantly towards better, worse, findings of the same, etc. where we see certain changes that we can interpret in different ways again. When I say in different ways of interpreting, I don't mean with a certain bad intensity, defined on purpose, but as all the statistics of some things show, so is the report. The data to be provided may be interpreted. For example. Is the increase in the number of known violence a positive event or a negative event? In fact, have we matured so much that more and more reports of what should be reported whether we are coming to know or have increased numbers. So, that one fineness of this data would be very important to learn actually what the changes in society are, and what report registers. Furthermore, the report is in any case a report of an opportunity to discuss the problem. So it is not just a question of the quality of the report, but of what it brings, but of the debate on the problem that is very often used. I think it's a good idea to put some things on the table because, in the end of the day, the D.A.'s office, or those who care about it, some additional problems or some focusses, draw attention to what might be useful. And the 4th thing that always relates to the reports is actually the work of the attorney and her associates, whether she has fulfilled the task and expectations that have been put in place or not. And I think about the amount of what the report says and what the absolute Ombudsman does for gender equality is about. I am concerned about something else that stems from this report, or the debate that it is. All debates are whether because women have talked or not, in fact, come down not to gender equality but to the position of women and discrimination against women, and in some ways strays from the main course that should be taken into account. The fact is that the report can read a negative impact on women, certain discrimination, the threat of women, but it should not be just this topic, because gender equality is manifested in many other segments. In that sense, I would not agree with my colleague Sobol that this is an opportunity, and certainly such an occasion should be, if gender equality were to be discussed in this, because the question of gay populations is a question of certain sexual tendencies or diversity, and it is not a question of gender relations. But to be able to talk about this subject yes, it just seems that this is not an opportunity. In any case, gender equality is a global issue. This is a topic that is not only a Croatian topic of the world and at different levels of civilisation and gender conditions in the world we find worse, we find better. But what I said in relation to the report, which is a key issue for me in this one trend, whether Croatia is going one way up, according to some more positive solutions, stagnating or going down, is very important. No matter how satisfied we are with this trend in which direction it goes, but it's very important in which direction it goes. I wouldn't talk about some worldview, let alone the political pathways of women, because I think women who are more than men are equally present in one and another political option if I can bring them down to two. And it seems to me when it comes to the debate that the problem is vulgarized, because the problem is social rather than political. So I would say that no matter how much gender equality legislation, no matter what the political option is in power, we pass laws that regulate it, the question of social consciousness and civilization is what moves things forward, so concrete practice. I am not happy and I do not accept that the participation of women in public life is in the public sphere no matter what the percentage question. I think bringing a woman to the question of percentages is also a kind of discrimination against women, rather than allowing space for certain ambitions of virtue and knowledge of women to appear. At the very least, we are witnessing that many women today are publicly present at the highest levels and our prime minister is a woman but there is also a woman in the business world. So when there is ambition, virtue and knowledge has no obstacles, but these obstacles may be much greater than for someone else. So I would be apostrophe of the subject of human rights and gender equality, not just bringing gender equality to women's issues. But what I would like to particularly apostrophe what you put in your report, but I think not enough in my court, not by your or the general court, is the issue of the media. But not the media in the way that it's said how many women participate in television shows or not, although it's of course important because not only the question of women but also the question of men who keep showing up on different TV shows like they're working on TV, like my son once said Tito works in the Dnevnik because every show started with Tito. I'd like to say that creating one media image, one media atmosphere, and the media is the one that creates a state of society, which they present and create a positive and negative climate is generally bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76099	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76100	And that this general bad state should be discussed and changed a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76101	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76102	Thank you. Well, here you go, colleague Roshin, first of all, I'm going to be in my line of work. I'm sorry that you misunderstood the message that went about being an unemployed man for this country, and that the unemployed woman at the time when she was out of work and that in no way went to the point of demeaning the householder's business. But the truth is that in relation to how they react or react to the institutions of the state and the government itself, when it comes to whether a group of men will lose their jobs, let's take the shipbuilding or how they react and what they do when a group of women are out of work, let's say we take women of textiles, Kamenski or Example or before that of the Dalmatian woman, etc. That's where you see the difference. And that's why I said that when those two categories are at stake, then the state takes care of the unemployed man and thinks of them as the problem of this country, how he solves it, and this other problem doesn't bother to solve because he thinks that a woman will stay home, stay home, have what she does and what she does. That's where my finding went in terms of that difference and I'm standing with it. Secondly, when it comes to LGBT persons, the Law on Gender Equality, among other things, prohibits discrimination in relation to sexual orientation and the Advocate General for Gender Equality, is an independent body which therefore cares about protection or whether there is discrimination in this population. Besides, that's why she wrote about them in her report, too, so I think it was absolutely right for me to mention in particular the LGBT population problem on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76103	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76104	Compared to the first, you didn't say it when you lost your job, so I was free to conclude the way I figured you didn't mean badly, but I had to give an additional interpretation, at least in the praise of my own wife, right. That's one thing. Secondly, many men in the Split-Dalmatia County have lost their jobs. You have and here you have Adria-chem and Dalmatia wine, it's not just Stoneski, so it's not just some women's industry, it's got mixed and mostly male industries. And as far as gay populations are concerned, you're right to say what you want only by me when it comes to gender equality, then you don't talk about gender equality, one sex and the same sex. So that, in my opinion, was two different topics where I do not deny the right of the lady to comment as well. And gender equality is a question of male female relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76105	Thank you very much. And another replica, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76106	Dear colleague Roshin, I would like to warn you as well as my colleague Gordana Sobol that you are absolutely wrong about dealing with the problem of LGBTQ persons because it is the obligation and duty of the Ombudsman for gender equality. And it is definitely not the job of a lawyer for gender equality to deal exclusively with relationships between men and women because in Croatia there is a relatively small, yet there is a population of transgender and transgender persons born in one sex, but they have a completely different actually born identity. Who should deal with such a population, such a population is extremely endangered and within the meaning of these very endangered populations of sexual minorities, and a little bit more about this I will talk about in my debate because the event in Croatia is unfortunately literally horror stories. And I hope that in future reports from now on, the attorney general and even more attention will be given to these very topics.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76107	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76108	Let me answer your question. From the very language concept of gender equality that is, there are only two sexes as sexes, and as sexual orientations there are different orientations. So when we talk about gender equality in language, what I'm telling you is what comes out. However, I still think that this subject when undermining this didn't get enough attention that it should get. And that's why I think it's a gay population issue or this topic that's being discussed, no matter how much I come from Split, the question is how much Split actually used a gay protest because it's media-populated unlike some of the others where it didn't come from. But I think that this subject should be discussed, but that within another topic it is lost and lost on its own importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76109	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Well, here's your chance, distinguished representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76110	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, at the very beginning, I want to say that I will, of course, support this report, and I will begin my debate with a few questions. In fact, we have received an opinion from the government that is rather unusual in my opinion because the government is quite a defensive response to the report in its opinion and the question is why it is so. Why the government did not actually accept whether or not to accept this report and why malignancy, so I would say the petty amount of inaccuracies in the report instead of determining how it would act according to the report because that is exactly what the government is doing to the report and to fix those poor foreign systems. I'm afraid this is the government's view of saying that the government is not aware of the problem and that it does not actually intend to act in a way that corrects things that are bad in the system. I will look at, as I said earlier, part of the report on discrimination on the basis of gender identity and expression, which according to the report of 323 citizens and citizens of the case on the basis of discrimination was not and was discriminatory on the basis of sexual orientation, and 12 cases and 5.8% respectively, and the attorney herself initiated another case of discrimination based on sexual orientation. What am I going to talk about these topics for? First of all, because the recent events in Split, which has already been mentioned several times during this debate, have shown that in this area in Croatia we have a very bad situation, but also because I am often addressed by members and members of sexual minorities, so I consider myself quite well aware of all the problems faced by these minority groups. And there is indeed everything from the scandalous discrimination of transgender or transgender sexes against Croatian laws, and not to speak of their legal protection. We are embarrassingly, I want to stress in Croatia and in 2011 we do not have a Centre for Transgender Care. Such persons cannot perform a gender-change operation in Croatia. If they want to change their name according to the Personal Name Act, they must publicly publish on the advertising board so that the public can show about what is a terrifying threat to the right to privacy, and if they want to sign up for gender change on the basis of medical documentation in all performances, they will be seen as being born for example Marko, and in the meantime they have become Sanja. That's still good, because for those who don't do sex-change surgery even though they're under hormonal therapy and transition or they're not even under therapy, but they have a birth identity that's different from the sex in which they were born, and they can prove that by medical documentation. Thus, such people cannot change gender registration in state queens even though they live in a completely different gender identity. About the daily violence against gays and lesbians not to be spoken of. We recently had a natural opportunity to see it on Split's arrival. Discrimination of sexual minorities in terms of their right to registered partnership and family life, which is a fundamental human right not to speak. And here I would like to stress that politics has a special responsibility in terms of ensuring the rights of all members and members of society, even when it is not the majority mood of the public or society. Politics is required to work actively to promote the right to diversity and equality of all members and members of society, and unfortunately this does not seem in Croatia. And that is why, in my opinion, there has been such a disgrace for Croatia a brutal attack on the Split procession. That the state used repressive apparatus instruments in previous cases of violence and hate crimes that were repeated year after year after every Zagreb came, but not only after Zagreb came, but during the year when young and gay and lesbians were often victims of violence and beatings by violent police reacted in a shameful way and instead qualified such acts as hate crimes which they apparently and were characterized as violations which was very frightening and therefore gave a message to these people, people who reach out for violence against sexual minorities that this is socially acceptable behaviour and that it is allowed in society to actually beat up, abuse gays and lesbians and other sexual minorities. Namely, the police and the repressive apparatus and the rule of law reacted in the way it was supposed to react, i.e. that it reached out to the provisions of the law, the Penal Code, which says that such hate criminals should be punished by prison sentences between three months and three years, I guarantee you that Split would definitely not have happened. But unfortunately this did not seem to happen and that is why we got Split to come and it was necessary for Split to come to Croatia's society and Croatian politics and repressive apparatus finally regain consciousness and finally do something about it. And because these people are being punished, i.e. to bring them in, and to threaten them with appropriate punishments, i.e. to file charges for hate crimes, which means that they will get between 3 months and 3 years in prison, I am 100% sure that the situation would have been different even a few years ago in Zagreb and not to talk about Split. And it's precisely the role of a repressive apparatus to protect vulnerable and minority groups from violence and sanction any violence. In that sense, I think that really one of the best methods of prevention is precisely effective repression. And we saw Zagreb come through without any problems. And this is not because Croatian citizens and citizens have become very aware of this in the meantime, but because they were afraid that if they committed such incidents, if they were to spit on participants and participants of the process this time, they would receive such criminal charges as may lead to a three-month or three-year prison, so they decided to change their behaviour. And precisely because he finally worked on the repressive apparatus and we didn't have any problems at Zagreb coming. I would like to stress that in this sense, the Ombudsman is absolutely right when it warns of the need for social condemnation of violence against members and members of sexual and gender minorities, and I am stressing again in Croatia until Split's arrival. It seems to me that one was just a statement from the police minister who condemned and qualified one attack on a gay young man by a few violent men and sent it as a statement. Otherwise, nothing else ever happened. In addition to the repression of course under this problem, education is also necessary and in this sense I welcome the Ombudsman’s warning that more content is needed in the education system to combat discrimination based on sexual orientation. And I hope here he is, that he will effectively protect the rights of sexual minorities in the future defender.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76111	Thank you. I still have to intervene. It's not the police that determines the category of criminal responsibility. It's a matter of criminal law. The police must intervene and determine the penalty according to how the Penal Code categorizes it. We have one replica, two replicas. Sonja Simunovic is the first to be respected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76112	My colleague Holly, you noticed in the beginning that the government actually has a defensive stance on most of the defense reports of all the attorneys, especially to the attorney general. And I really don't understand why and there's really no need because the institution of all the defenses actually serves where citizens and citizens have problems, in which segments of society, where they struggle daily and actually serve as a great guideline where they would still be able to intervene and fix. What the government is now doing with this Law on the Ombudsman is actually killing the messenger, actually making a decision that the problems of our citizens and citizens are being talked about as little as possible, leaving the impression that there is an illusion that everything is okay, which is actually a policy of putting problems under the carpet, and it will sooner or later escalate with much greater and far-reaching consequences. Because it doesn't mean unless there's a problem talking about him disappearing. On the contrary, he only grows and thrives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76113	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76114	Well, dear colleagues, Sonja, you're absolutely right. That's why I'm afraid, and that's why I said in my debate about the Law on the Ombudsman, that the intensities of this law are, in fact, the pacification of all attorneys, not only of the attorney general, but also of the lawyers for gender equality, whose report today is ultimately discussed, because they are warning and responsible for doing their job, and they are warning about the problems that are happening in the system. And instead of strengthening them, they want to weaken it because simply the reports that come from the attorney general are not on the line that they would like to hear. And that's what I think it's scary and that it's talking about us actually, no matter what we're going towards closing chapter 23 with all these measures, we're working in practice on the diametric opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76115	Thank you. And another replica, the esteemed representative of Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76116	Here I am not vengeful to you, but I'm a replica like you to me. Because of the interpretation of Split, not because of the defence of Split, but because of the interpretation of Split. It is true that there was aggression in Split compared to the procession, but you must admit that there was tolerance and that there was support in Split because perhaps there was more in the procession itself than in those who supported it, than in those who were homosexual orientations, and there was a terrible amount of indifferent, therefore both tolerant and supportive, indifferent and opposing. So like every middle of what's manifested is what's aggressive, but what was conditionally said positively is not spoken of. I was there and I can testify with my own eyes, because it passed in front of a coffee shop where I regularly drink coffee and my company drinks coffee on Saturdays, and we couldn't even move away for a while. It was very, very polite, very, very correct, and it was very, very fun because they passed first when the procession started some security guards in the civilian first and they clapped like they were. So everything was just fine and all the glass glasses, all the ashtrays, were removed, so there wasn't an accident. It was a prevention, and for the number of specialists who had been told but the Pope was coming to Split, it's what it looked like at the beginning of the Jardin since it left, so you know where the traffic light was before the post office. Everything was fine, I came home okay, I say everything went fine, then my grandson says it didn't go right because it was broken up on the waterfront. So Split has other faces, not only those faces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76117	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76118	Dear colleague Roshin, I did not say that Split has no other face, of course that Split has another face and indeed in the process were also many prominent intellectuals and respected people from Split, and of course it was all right and positive, but I did not talk about it. And I would not agree with you that it was very fun for participants and participants of the procession when the stones started flying on them, jars with flowers and other objects, tear gasses and the like, and what is crucial I did not refer at all in this part to whether the police at the moment when Split came good or bad to do their job, I just said that the repressive apparatus had previously not done its job well, because that it had done a good job in the previous years and the previous months to Split would not have come in this way. And I'm afraid that this kind of treatment doesn't become one exception now, and that in the future, there will again be saddened by the situations we've seen both in Zagreb and during the year towards sexual minorities, because I don't think there is enough level of awareness in society, in political life and in the meaning of a repressive apparatus that any violence against sexual minorities is not acceptable as usual to all the other members and members of society.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76119	Thank you. I just want to warn you that we're sticking to the subject, the report is about 2010 so let's not expand it, because we won't even finish it then. Let's move on with the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76120	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable attorneys, state secretary, co-workers and colleagues. Today, we are discussing the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality, and I will recall Article 3 of the Croatian Constitution on Gender Equality is defined as one of the highest values of the constitutional order of this country. And in this context, it is indeed sad and embarrassing how little interest is shown by parliamentary representatives on this subject, and not just today. And what the Government's position on this constitutional value is, it can be concluded from the fact that it abolishs the prosecutor's office for gender equality, or is attached to the attorney general's office. But all of this is actually another proof that in Croatia we think one thing, another we speak, and another we do, that we are unworthy, hypocritical, and that we are prone to declarations. That this is so visible, unfortunately from this report too, and the same problem in its reports is regularly pointed out by a public defender. It is therefore about the existence of a major gap between normative and real, more precisely between the existing legislative framework and its realisation. A good example of this in this report is exactly the protective measures expressed to the perpetrators of domestic violence. The domestic violence certainly represents the most severe manifesto of gender inequality, and therefore the Law on protection against domestic violence and the Criminal Law defines domestic violence as a criminal offence and penalties for such behaviour are also prescribed. Of course, the perpetrators of the illegal acts of domestic violence can also express protective measures, and their effectiveness, or ineffectiveness, is exactly what I want to say below. The government likes to say that to sanction domestic violence in Croatia we have all the necessary regulations, that we have one quality legislative framework from the national strategy of protection against domestic violence, to the protocol on domestic violence, but the fact is that much still ends at this very declarative level, i.e. to address the problem mostly at the implemented regulations that are actually the most important in the whole story. During 2010 related to domestic violence, police proposed that the misdemeanor courts give a total of 10 thousand 549 protective measures, as many as 4000 538 safeguard measures or 43% of the total number were measures of mandatory psychosocial treatment. So almost every other safeguard that has been pronounced is psychosocial treatment and judging by this high frequency of expressions of this measure are obviously high expectations of its application. However, the data from this report of yours, Madam Attorney General, are truly defeating. In fact, only 88 people went through the treatment during 2010. So 72 men and 16 women on, I repeat, 4 and a half thousand declared protective measures. The main reason for such a small number of persons referred to in the treatment is insufficient financial resources. Unfortunately, the problem of insufficient financial resources has not been solved because it is not the current nature, it is permanent, it is simply the result of the government's perception of the problem of domestic violence. The second reason for this limited application of the protective measure of psychosocial treatment is the lack of professionals with the approval of the Ministry of Justice to conduct the treatment. In fact, the training of experts in the implementation of psychosocial treatment is carried out by the Society of Psychological Assistance from Zagreb and during 2010 the company managed to train 90 experts, i.e. experts. However, the problem is that out of these 90 trained experts only with 31 persons, so only with a third of them, the Ministry of Justice signed contracts, or granted them a license to conduct psychosocial treatment on the ground. According to the plan for the development of a network of treatment centres by the end of 2010 the centres were supposed to live in 14 largest Croatian cities, i.e. county centres. Unfortunately, however, more than half of the total number of Croatian counties currently do not have any trained experts in this area. So the question is why is the measure of psychosocial treatment, so why is it regularly pronounced, and in reality there is no realisation of the assumption that it is actually being implemented. The measure put forward literally leaves a dead letter on paper. Furthermore, a second protective measure at the frequency of expression is a mandatory treatment measure of addiction. In 2010, it was said 3 294 times. In fact, it is estimated that in 50% of the cases of domestic violence, alcohol is present. As regards the application of this safeguard measure, only now shall the Ministry of Health and Social Care be drawn up by the relevant Regulation on how it is implemented. Furthermore, unlike this safeguard measure, which still does not have a single implementing act, one other safeguard measure, which is the extent of the prohibition of the victim's approach to violence, has an implementing rule, but there are also a number of restrictions in the implementation of that measure itself. In fact, due to insufficient numbers of police officers, the victim must herself inform the police that the bully has approached her more than he has been allowed by a court ruling. Of course, at the constant risk that due to a poor assessment of the notice too late. Many controversys today also trigger a protective measure of distance from the apartment, or house. I personally don't know that more than one case has been reported in Croatia as being a remote bully, mostly victims of violence, and these are mostly women and children. Which in itself is contradictory, but apparently not all the necessary assumptions are provided that there is a different way of doing things. Victims of violence must be provided accommodation, most often in safe houses, and all of this is related to large additional costs, and safe houses for the bullyes we already have. In recent times, though, their capacity has been too low, so prisons should be extended. And to conclude, the right to life without violence is a fundamental human right. So, one of the ones in Chapter 23 that we successfully concluded just yesterday, with human rights remaining one of the areas of further monitoring of the European Commission. We all agreed when we discussed the Attorney General's office that we should not spare on human rights. And that this does not remain a mere demagogy in the government is that it provides the necessary financial resources to ensure that the safeguards that I have spoken about in my debate become indeed protective measures, so as not to remain a dead letter on paper, i.e. that in the EU this would not be interpreted as a lagging behind with the declared reforms. The Government, or competent ministries, must also speed up the procedures for the adoption of the necessary implementing rules. The procedures for the adoption of implementing acts are too long, and the price for this is indeed too high. A ruined childhood, a ruined one's health or what's the worst lost one's life. Or about that, to be quite specific that the judiciary is not only Croatian but also the judiciary of neighbouring countries was more effective in the case of a particular Paravignja today, reminding Antonia that she was only 17 years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76121	Thank you. We have replicas. The first is Mrs. Gordana Sobol, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76122	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Jelash, I'd just like to use this replica of mine to explain some more things about the subject of psychosocial treatment. You said in the last year that the data suggests that the police have proposed a safeguard measure of mandatory psychosocial treatment for 4 538 violent people. There is another piece of information that says that the courts have confirmed the pronunciation of such a safeguard in 1,246 cases. And the data says that only 88 of those thugs went through psychosocial treatment. The measure of protective psychosocial treatment has existed in the law since half of 2003, in the first Law to protect against domestic violence. It took nearly two years for the departments of health and justice to agree whose jurisdiction is related to psychosocial treatment and regulation. So that rule was made in the second month of 2005 and in the meantime we changed the law and today we are in a situation where 88 violent people go through a psychosocial treatment of 1,246 legally handed down judgments. Psychological treatment is systematically conducted. I personally sent a representative question to the justice minister 15 days ago why psychosocial treatment is being systematically conducted in only three cities, why no new contract has been concluded since June 2009, for the financing of associations or individuals to conduct psychosocial treatments, but it has been resolved voluntarily or possibly through some one-time projects. This is therefore a measure to be implemented systematically and the Ministry of Justice is competent and must be provided in the national budget and in accordance with the prescribed strategies. That's not a situation right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76123	Thank you. The answer of Madam Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76124	So here's fellow Sobol, the data you were talking about and the courts confirmed a thousand 246 protective measures of psychosocial treatment, and unfortunately only 88 people went through psychosocial treatment in 2010. So, it is precisely on track that much remains in Croatia at this one declarative level to make sure, above all, that there is a real will for problems to be solved. We see, in fact, that you have no real will.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76125	Thank you. We have another replica, Mrs. Djurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76126	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Representative Jelash, here I am listening today and I must say that I am very sad, but on the other hand I am not surprised that on the side of the opposition here you are, in particular, and the MPs who spoke you are trying to persistently collect some political points on gender equality issues, that is unfortunate. It's sad and because you want to show... she didn't do anything, and you see, colleagues, Jelash, she made this government a woman, she strengthened all of us so that we could publicly step forward and report violence. She empowered her to give birth benefits that 6 months of women born full of their wages, to get more than a third to the end, so that both men and women could empower her. How do you think she felt about the woman whom you abolished birth benefits from 2001 to 20014? How do you think she felt about the one who was pregnant, and Mr. Linic said to sit at home she doesn't need to do anything anyway? I didn't hear you call. Equally, my colleague Jelash, we have a Committee on Gender Equality in the Parliament, my colleague Sobol is president, I was really looking forward to it, and I was glad when she said she was showing herself to violence in Split, of course ok., I expected that when this verbal violence took place against our representative, she was a woman. Because she's a politician, do you think politicians and politicians don't have violence in their country? It's just some people say it and some people don't. That she was uraging through the defender and that she was uraging in a way that no matter what a minority said to most but she told the woman, she hurt her in her religious feelings just like all of us who carry the cross out of religious beliefs, hurt her as a young woman, the person in front of whom the future is, calling her now I'm going to tell the Taliban what's scary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76128	Yeah. My colleague Jelash, in view of her, I'm sorry to look at you, but I find it awkward to turn around.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76129	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nadica Jelash's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76130	My colleagues, twilight, are saddening data from this report that confirms everything I've been saying. So, I didn't say anything by heart about everything I read from this report. The data's not sentimental, they're really objective. As far as maternity benefits are concerned, you received excellent answers yesterday from a colleague named Lugarić, but you obviously did not learn a lesson. And as for all of your demagogue stories about the government's attitude and attitude towards these problems that we're talking about today, it's best to put an end to it. The government headed by Mrs. Jadranka Kosor has abolished the attorney general's office and not only the lawyers for gender equality, but also the attorneys for children and lawyers with disabilities. So you end it, and every story of yours is actually completely unworthy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76131	We've got one violation of the Rules of Procedure of Ms. Djurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76132	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here I have to tell my colleague, Jelash, that you've hurt the Businessman, and that's Article 209 because you keep spreading the wrong information to the public, so you're misleading the public, and you're saying that the government is ending it. The government doesn't lift anything, no one will lose their existence and their credibility if they do their job the way they've been done so far. I have to say, in most cases, very high-quality and analyze cases as they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76133	We'd better get on with it, Tatjana Shimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Lawyers with their associates. So here's the report, of course, says that discrimination in Croatia exists somewhere on the rise somewhere in a constant with very small shifts for the better. Areas that my colleagues used to mention the field of work, employment, payment policy, pay pardon, segregation in the system of education, pension system. Today, there was talk of domestic violence, etc. We also saw the government’s position, or defence response to the report, which is essentially much, much to talk about. Thus, we can say that all women are of a lower kind and can be abused and harassed in any way. It is also worrying that when women report violence or discrimination, they are very often withdrawing their application out of fear, and also because of the absence of the Commissioner or the Commissioner for the protection of the dignity of workers, which is a particular problem in the situation where the responsible person is also the one who disturbs her or discriminates against her. I welcome, of course, the attorney generals of the research that have been done and because of the wage policy and the judicial process of research, in fact, which most realistically demonstrates the state and which can be the basis for responding to the better. The remarks show that we have a lack of education in schools that would develop in terms of gender equality, and also in media that actually operate in this area in the direction of repairing the situation. Croatia has been developing women's human rights for years and especially in co-operation with the civil sector. However, the abolition of the office is also a part of that law being abolished. And I would say that the position of women in Croatia is slipping backwards. The problem is the lack of a wider social condemnation of sexism. In fact, statements by many public figures show that sexism is a deeply rooted part of everyday life. In fact, the hurtful display of women certainly reduces the ability to appear and act in public or to be understood as equal, to respect them, and thus respect their integrity both in public life and in their private lives. I would like to congratulate and commend this section on women's health, which also applies to the prevention of breast cancer, to the prevention of HPV virus infections, I would also like to commend this award of "The Pearl of Wisdom" which was secondly awarded precisely for education and prevention in this health care area. And I hope there will be another problem in that direction, which is the discovery of colon cancer, or that part will go. My colleagues did not mention a problem that I would like to highlight, which is advertising sexism, that is, by using sexual, gender stereotypes in advertising. Well, very often we see that, for example, the powder for laundry intended exclusively for women is implicated. I'll mention autoclub ads and road help when a woman can't tell the difference between two or three cities, and she understands cards well. Then it is the contribution of the magazine for construction, construction, heating when the woman in the advertisement lies on the floor and thus advertises the floor heating. Or an ad for aluminum carpentry when a man sings that he's tired of old, worn-out, rotten carpenteries, and one verse says, "I'll break everything, windows and doors, which will make me old-fashioned, and my wife better when she's new." So it's in the lyrics of singing, singing and children on the street, it's an insult that's packed in a joke or joke. Sexism only gives an apparent acceptability and innocency. Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, ads that were offensive or humiliating on the basis of e.g. race or faith, no one would consider it funny and acceptable while on the other hand this kind of thing when advertising suggests that women are only good when they're new or at a time of fighting violence against women even suggests they'll hear me woman, or she'll hear me when she gets home. So our society is actually going through rapid changes, but the idea of women in the media has not changed significantly. Therefore, women in the media today are increasingly depicted as stereotypes, which implies that female personality as a human being is actually reduced to a simple object of predetermined stereotype values. So women in the media are presented as a sexual object, especially in advertising, because it's said that a female body in an adjudicated to sex sells everything which is the complete trivialization of all other values of a woman as a person. Also, women in the media are very often housework facilities, hangers often for goods, then face cosmetic preparations. Besides that women in the media are also demoted in this way, they are also stereotypes in the media encouraged to raise these same stereotypes to be accepted in society. And what is being created is a marketing framework for women and what are the consequences, the consequences are that a woman today under the influence of the media has to be a super woman and nothing less. For this reason, it is necessary to protect the dignity of women, that these stereotypes that prevail and prejudice in society finally break down because the whole society progresses, along with them once more in history. It's time to advance the perception itself towards women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76135	Thank you. It's Mr. Sima Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76136	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. The protection and promotion of gender equality are defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as one of the fundamental values of the constitutional order. The Advocate General for Gender Equality is one of the mechanisms for ensuring the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality. The 2010 report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality is detailing all activities of the Gender Equality Office in accordance with the powers and the work of the Advocate's Office and specified by the Law on Gender Equality. The diapazon of work is very wide and moves from family employment and work, sexual and gender minorities, education, media, women and health and discrimination in other areas of life. According to statistics, the number of complaints was raised to the prosecutor by 7.3% compared to 2009. The highest number of cases in the field of discrimination, 42.4% refers to social security, including social care, pension and health insurance, unemployment insurance. 27.7% of work and working conditions, 8.1% of public information and media, 7.1% of education, science and sport, and 5.16% of the judiciary. The majority of complaints are filed by women, and it relates to gender discrimination. Unfortunately, women are often victims of domestic violence. In 2010, 14 women were killed by a male family member. In Brod-Posavia County, where I come from, there is one of the seven shelters in the Republic of Croatia for victims of family violence. Due to the difficulty of financing the shelter of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Assembly, which I am a member of, he called on 3 May this year a thematic session on the topic of financing autonomous women's shelters where the draft law on the financing of autonomous shelters and counselling centres was presented. One of the tasks facing all political parties, as far as the upcoming parliamentary elections are concerned, is Chapter 6. Gender equality laws, political parties. This chapter states that when establishing a proposal for a list of candidates and candidates for the selection of representatives and representatives in the Croatian Assembly, gender equality principles are respected and that women and men are managed in a balanced capacity on election lists and that representation in political and public decision-making bodies is not below 40%. All of this shows how gender equality means today in all areas of public and private life and with it I fully accept the 2010 Ombudsman's 2010 Report on Gender Equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76137	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, Mrs. Gordana Lukač Koritnik, Advocate for Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76138	Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I thank you for all the debates, and I would not actually report that there were no objections from the distinguished representative Marijana Petir, and I just want to say, at the end of this term, we have tried to work professionally and professionally and independently for eight years. Whenever we found that there was a violation of a discriminatory ban, and I would remind myself that in the case of the HSS, it was MP Lalić Ljubica that I reacted and led to the meeting of the Committee on Gender Equality. Therefore, that is not the standard. The measure was whether the basis exists, whether you are discriminated against because you are a woman, because you are certain sexual orientations or married and family status. If it's not any of that, it's no longer my jurisdiction. I graded how I graded it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-01-0.u76139	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide something later. We move on to the 2010 report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality, the applicant is a lawyer for gender equality, the debate is closed. In line with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2010. a year." Let's please get involved and vote on the report. Score. This report was accepted by most votes, 93 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against.
