ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65860	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 22nd session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia to Mrs Jadranka Kosor, the Vice-President and other members of the Government present. This session begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, begins on 15 January and ends on 15 July. I invite you to pay our respects at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. - A performance of the Anthem "Beautiful Our Homeland" - "Eternal Praise and Glory"! – The minutes of the 20th and 21st session of the Croatian Parliament were held at the session. Any objections to the record? There isn't. I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 20th and 21st session of the Parliament in the proposed text. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I would like to stress that the points we did not discuss at the 20th session of the Croatian Parliament are printed in lower letters. In the final draft agenda, I included 13 new points under regular numbers, 2, 7, 11, 20, 22 to 28, and points 63 and 64. These are: Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials with a final proposal for a law. And the procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Airport Act with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, emergency procedure. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Iceland on the avoidance of double taxation and preventing the avoidance of income tax avoidance, emergency procedure. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation of the Market in Agricultural Products is an emergency procedure. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, emergency procedure. Proposal for a law on protection against light pollution, first reading. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a multiannual operational programme "Employment of Human Potentials" to assist the Community from pre-accession assistance instruments under the "Employment of Human Potentials" component in Croatia with a final draft law, emergency procedure. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a multiannual operational programme "Region competitiveness" to assist the Community from the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance under the Regional Development Component in Croatia, an emergency procedure. Proposal for a decision adopting the position of the Republic of Croatia on amendments and amendments to Protocol 4 to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Croatia, of the other part, with a proposal for a conclusion. Proposal for a decision on amendments to the statutes of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, first reading. Proposing representative Dragutin Lesar. Proposal for a Law on Election Units to elect representatives to the Croatian Parliament, first reading. Proposing representative Dragutin Lesar. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda, referred to in points 1, 2, 4 to 12, paragraphs 14 to 23, points 25, 26 and 29, which are proposed to adopt by emergency procedure. I read it when I explained the proposal of the final agenda, which are the laws that were proposed to be passed by emergency procedure, that they did not again, were at the invitation, so we'll do them again. Proposal for a Act supplementing the Electricity Market Act, with a final proposal for a law, emergency procedure. Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers. Proposal for a Law of Peace. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship. Proposal for a Law amending the Penal Code. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Airport Act. Proposal for a Law confirming the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol. Proposal for a Law confirming the first additional protocol under the general rules of the World Postal Union. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Eighth Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union. Proposal for a Act amending and supplementing the Transport Act by line and occasional coastal transport. Proposal for a Law confirming a postal payment service agreement. Proposal for a Law amending the Witness Protection Act. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Poland, on Cooperation in Crime Prevention. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, P.Z.E. number 676. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Act, P.Z.E. Number 691. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Real Estate Tax. Proposal for a Law confirming the contract between the Republic of Croatia and Iceland, avoiding double taxation and preventing the avoidance of income tax. Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the Establishment and Privileges and Immunities of Commission Delegations of the European Communities in the Republic of Croatia. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation of the Markets in Agricultural Products, P.Z.E. number 696. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act. Proposal for a Law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a multiannual operational programme for human potential development. And the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a multiannual operational programme regional competitiveness. I Proposal for a Law supplementing the Privatisation Act INA - Oil Industry d.d. with a final bill of law, an emergency procedure. Proposer of the SDP Representatives Club, point 59. Do any of the MPs and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? Representative, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65861	Mr Vice-President, the Croatian Democratic Community Club opposes the urgent procedure of the proposal under regular number 59, this is the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Privatisation of INA – Oil Industry. Explanation. Croatia signed pre-accession contracts, Croatia signed the Lisbon Treaty, Croatia concluded Chapter 4 of the freedom of movement of capital, and the proposed law cuts with all three of these documents. We therefore ask that the law go into regular procedure, so that this can be discussed well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65862	Thank you. Any other objections? Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65863	Mr. Vice President, I personally object to the urgent process of discussing the law, the addition of the Electricity Market Act, with the final draft law, P.Z. Number 695. You know very well, we all know that at this point certain criminal proceedings are being conducted against the former Deputy Prime Minister of Mr. Polancec, the chairman of HEP's management Mr. Antsuk, etc. On the one hand, one person is being tried, and now their successors in the government simply propose provisions to de facto or rehabilitate someone or someone, in order to make it look the same as they did before. This law in public has already been given the popular name Jadranka law, and therefore it would be good for Mr Vice President to remove this law from the agenda. And you keep your mouth shut.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65864	Is there any further objection to proposals for an individual law to be passed by emergency procedure? There isn't. I would like to stress that points 4, 5, 14, 17, 18 and 22 of the final draft agenda are aligned with the European Union rules, and in accordance with Article 161. We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of these laws. These are the Proposal for a Law on Peace, with the final proposal for a law, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Lawyership, with the final proposal of the Law. Proposal for a Law amending the Witness Protection Act, with a final proposal for a law. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the General Tax Law with the final draft law and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of the Market, Agricultural Products with the Final Proposal of the Law. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure on the other laws. Please, let's get on with it. There are 97 MPs present, we have a quorum so we can make a right decision. As regards the Law supplementing the Law on the Market in Electricity, Representative Damir Cain made an observation on the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure. I'm asking the Prime Minister to show himself about this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65865	Mr. Vice-President, the government does not accept Mr. Cain's proposal, but the government insists that it insists on an emergency procedure. No argument that Mr. Agent Cain made contradicting the urgent procedure, and at all this law is absolutely unfounded and not true. However, by this law, the government ensures, I believe, that the majority in the Parliament and the majority of the ruling coalition will accept it, enables transparent business, absolute state protection and is one of the mechanisms primarily in preserving the jobs in Sibenik and Sibenik-Knin County related to TLM, but certainly transparent business as we want, as I believe in the IDS. Well, if you've already called that law "Jadranka's Law," then I support it with all my might and suggest that it remain in the emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65866	Thank you. We're going to the vote. Please engage. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law supplementing the Law on the electricity market? The result? 88 votes for, 8 abstentions and 6 against passed this law by emergency procedure. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law supplementing the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials? There isn't. We're going to the vote. Please let us vote. The result? I find that with 94 votes for, 4 abstentions and 1 against on the agenda, this legislative proposal has been included in the emergency procedure. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Penal Code? There isn't. Please let us vote. The result? With 96 votes in favour, three abstentions and one against, and this law goes into order of urgency. Do any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Airport Act? There isn't. Please vote. The result? With 85 votes for, 5 abstentions, 5 against the agenda by emergency procedure was included this legislative proposal. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol? There isn't. Please engage, we can vote. The result? 95 for, 2 abstentions and this law goes according to emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the First Additional Protocol with the general rules of the World Postal Union? There isn't. Please engage, we can vote. The result? 93 for, one abstention and this law goes according to emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the First Additional Protocol with the general rules of the World Postal Union? There isn't. Please engage, we can vote. The result? 95 for 1 abstention, going into emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the Emergency Act on Confirmation of the Eighth Additional Protocol to the Constitution of the World Postal Union? There isn't. Please engage, we can vote. The result? Consistent with 90 votes for this bill, he's going through an emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport? There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. 89 for, 3 abstentions, going by emergency procedure. Whether there are objections to the application of the emergency procedure under the Postal Payment Services Agreement. There isn't. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. Score. Unanimity with 91 votes for this law is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on cooperation in the fight against crime, please let's get involved, let's vote. Score. 94 for, 2 abstentions, this law goes according to emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions? There isn't. Please engage and we can vote. Score. 91 for, 3 abstentions and this law goes according to emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Real Estate Taxation? There isn't. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. Score. With 89 for and 3 abstentions and this law goes according to emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Iceland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of payment of income tax? No, please, let's get involved, vote. Score. WITH 85 votes for and 1 abstention and this law goes according to emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the establishment and the privileges and immunities of the delegation of the Commissions of the European Communities to the Republic of Croatia? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Score. I find that with 88 votes for and 1 abstention in the agenda, this legislative proposal has been included in the emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act? No, please, let's get involved, vote. Score. 95 for, 5 abstentions and this legislative proposal is included on the agenda by emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a multiannual operational programme for the development of human potentials? There isn't. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. Score. Unanimously with 93 votes in favour, this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the multiannual operational programme "Region competitiveness". There isn't. Please, let's get on board and vote. Score. unanimously with 94 votes in favour, this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Law supplementing the Privatisation Act to the Oil Industry d.d., proposing the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Representative Andrija Hebrang objected that this Law should be placed on the agenda by emergency procedure. We should vote to put this agenda on the agenda by emergency procedure. Please, let's get on with it. Score. For emergency procedure 26, abstention 2, 72 against, so it goes into regular procedure. There were no objections to the agenda I proposed with the call for a session, and that agenda was in accordance with Article 203(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure may now be submitted only to those points which did not contain a proposal for the Agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. On points 2, 7, 11, 20, 22, 23, 25 and 26, we have declared ourselves to vote on urgency. Any of the representatives have objections to points 24, 27, 28, 63 and 64. The final draft agenda that did not contain the draft agenda that you received with the call for this session, which is: Proposal for a law on protection against light pollution, first reading. Proposal for a decision adopting the position of the Republic of Croatia on amendments and amendments to Protocol 4 to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Croatia, of the other part. Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Statute of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, First Reading, Proposer of Representative Dragutin Lesar and Proposed Law on Election Units for Elections in the Croatian Parliament, First Reading, Proposer of Representative Dragutin Lesar. There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if there is no objection, and there is no, the agenda is established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure should now publish a set agenda. I suggest that you agree that I do not read it in full but allow me to announce that the agenda established is as I suggested in the final draft agenda, with the amendment that that law, the Club of Representatives of the SDP, is going to the first reading. The agenda is set.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65867	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, please engage for the control of the quorum. Please let anyone who hasn't turned on answer the phone! 86. I hope we do. 97 by count and 86 by count, so please show this difference on our keys as well. We're moving on to the addition of the agenda of this session. In accordance with Article 204(2), Rules of Procedure of the 22nd session. I suggest that supplement with three points of the agenda. 1. Proposal for a law to prevent conflicts of interest. It's P.Z. No. 703 and it would be the first reading. 2. Proposal for a decision to appoint the president and three members of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television. Proposer: Information, Information and Media Committee. 3. Proposal for a decision to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Proposer: Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. A proposal to supplement your agenda has been delivered to the benches. Do any of the MPs or MPs have any objections to the inclusion of these points in the 22nd session agenda? If there are no ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the draft agenda have been established. Thank you. We are moving to a vote on individual discussed points and the final points of the agenda. 1. Report on audits carried out for 2009. It's a special part of keeping secrets. Proposer The State Office for the Audit of the Republic of Croatia and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security proposes to remove the confidentiality mark from the specific part of the 2009 Business Audit Report. Does the board president want to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. I am voting on the committee's proposal to remove the confidentiality mark from the 2009 audit report, a special part. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? Unanimity 99 to remove the confidentiality mark from this report. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, do you, let's move on. 78. Please engage and check the quorum, and then we'll vote on the completion of the agenda. Did we all get involved, please? What? Well, then please establish the agenda by counting. To determine the quorum of course. 79. So we have a quorum that we could vote on supplementing the agenda. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the 22nd session agenda with five new points. 1. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Youth in Action Programme and the Lifelong Learning Action Programme (2007-2013).) with the final proposal of the law. It would be an emergency procedure. P.Z.E. No. 704. 2. Proposal for a law amending the Law on financial compensation to victims of criminal offences, with a final proposal for a law. Emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 705. 3. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the "Project of the completion of the VC corridor", with the final proposal for a law. Also emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 706. 4. Final proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Second reading, P.Z. No. 703. 5. Proposal for a decision to declare "National Day of Combating uterus Cancer" in the Republic of Croatia. The proposer is the Committee on Health and Social Care. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I would like to stress that the proposal for a bill to confirm the memorandum of understanding between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the "Youth Work Programme" and the Lifelong Learning Action Programme (2007-2013). with a final draft of the law. It's an emergency procedure, first and second reading. P.Z. No. The Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation. We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of this law. So I'm finding there's a 79 quorum, right? Now 80, so we can decide. Do any of the MPs and advocates have any objection to the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Monetary Compensation to Victims of Crimes? This is point 2, P.Z. Number 705. There isn't. We're going to the vote. Please, who's in favor of an emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? This emergency procedure for this law has been adopted unanimously by 80 votes. Any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Guarantee Contract Act between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the "Project Completion of Corridor VC", i.e. P.Z. 706, point 3. There isn't. Who's in charge of the urgency of this bill? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity, 80 votes. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the 22nd session agenda, these are points 4 and 5, submitted in addition? These are the Final Proposal of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 703., and Proposal for a Decision to declare "National Day of Combating uterus Cancer" in the Republic of Croatia, Proposer: Committee on Health and Social Care? If not, ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the draft agenda have been established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65870	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Namely, this is an extremely sensitive law which tells us exactly the case of Vukovar defender Tihomir Purda and precisely because of the fact that they would not pass laws overnight that could have serious consequences for Croatia, I suggest that Croatian defenders do not go into emergency proceedings.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65871	That he's not going to first reading? ... And in regular procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here, we have heard the proposal that this bill does not go into emergency procedure but regular procedure. Let's please get involved and vote on it. Who's for an emergency procedure or against that, huh? The result? This law was included in most of the votes by emergency procedure, 80 votes for, 3 abstentions and 19 against. If any of the representatives and representatives have objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 22nd session, i.e. points 3 and 4 so I don't read it again? If not, ladies and gentlemen, the addition of the agenda has been established. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give my word to the President of the Committee after the club debate, I told them to extend the agenda at 11.30 p.m. Well, after that, you'll get your word. That we'll hope to end very soon. Here's the quorum first, let's see if we have a quorum. Please, let's get involved. Do we have a score? Please engage and see if we're engaged. We have a quorum, 84 is reported here. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Commission pursuant to Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 22nd session with 9 new points. First, the proposal for a Law amending the Biofuels Act for Transport, with the final draft law, is an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 709. Secondly, a proposal for a Police Act, with a final bill, also an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 710. Thirdly, the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Funding Agreement concerning an experimental programme for the conservation and restoration of cultural heritage in the Western Balkans 2009 conflict areas between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission, with the final proposal of the law, also an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 711. Fourthly, the proposal for a Law confirming the 2009 IPA financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Croatia-Serbia Cross-border Cooperation Programme under the component cross-border cooperation of the 2009 IPA Programme, with the final draft law, also emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 712. Fifthly, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Croatia-Montenegro Cross-border Cooperation Programme under the IPA 2009 component cross-border cooperation, with the final draft law, also emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 713. Sixthly, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Croatia-BiH Cross-border Cooperation Programme under the IPA 2009 component cross-border cooperation, with the final draft law, also emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 714. Seventhly, a proposal for a Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Programme for financing and participation of Croatia in transnational programmes of the European Territorial Cooperation of the European Regional Development Fund "South East Europe" and "Meditirane" under the component of cross-border cooperation of the IPA Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance for 2009, with a final draft of the law, also an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 715. Eight, a proposal for a decision appointing members of the National Attorney's Council of Representatives. The proposer is the Justice Committee. And the ninth, proposal for a Decision appointing members of the State Judicial Council from the House of Representatives. The Proposer is also the Committee on Justice. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. If any of the representatives or advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Biofuels Act for transport, that would be P.Z. No. 709th, point 1.? There isn't. Then let's get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of this law. Let's get involved and vote. If you suggest I raise my hand, it'll go a little faster. Okay, then we'll raise our hands. Excuse me, who's to suggest that this law goes by emergency procedure please raise your hand. Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't, unanimously with 98 votes. Let's move on. Any of the representatives or representatives have objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Police Act, P.Z. point 2. Mr. Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65873	We object to the urgency of the procedure when adopting the Police Act for a simple reason because we do not see the need for urgency in the process. For three reasons, first of all, it is not the European law and it is not a condition, because if it were a condition, as you suggest, then we would really determine the fact that the police are ineffective, that they are not independent, that they are politicised, we believe that they are not. And here it is stated that this is one of the criteria for closing chapter 23, I don't think there's a need for urgency in the process. Secondly, the Law reduces the human and personal rights of police officers, and I think it requires much more thorough and broad discussion in the Croatian Parliament than in the urgency of the procedure and the third has enough time to choose to appoint all police officers and in regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65874	Please, we have an objection to the inclusion of this item of the agenda by emergency procedure, so I ask you to set it by electronic vote, so that there is no doubt about our commitment. So, with opposition to an emergency procedure. Please engage and declare the urgency of the procedure under this Act. Turn yourself in and vote, whenever we have an opposition then the best way to vote electronically is to know exactly what happened. Score. This Opinion on the urgency of the procedure was adopted by 70 votes in favour, no abstentions and 26 against. Third, does any of the representatives or advocates have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement concerning an experimental programme for the conservation and restoration of cultural heritage in the areas of conflicts in the Western Balkans for 2009 between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission, P.Z. 714 point 3. Not if it doesn't. Who's in favor of this law going according to an emergency procedure? By raising your hands. Thank you. Does anyone mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. So unanimous with 102 votes. 4. Does any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the cross-border cooperation programme Croatia – Serbia under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2009, P.Z. Point 712. Any objections? There isn't. Please, who's for this proposal to go by emergency procedure, raise your hand? Thank you. Does anyone mind? There isn't. Restraint? And this bill of law has been accepted to go by emergency procedure unanimously with 102 votes. 5. Does any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the cross-border cooperation programme Croatia – Montenegro under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2009, P.Z. No. 713 under point 5? There isn't. Who's to apply an emergency procedure please raise your hand for this bill? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Restraint? And this law was adopted unanimously to go by emergency procedure with 103 votes. Six. Any of the representatives and representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the framework of the IPA cross-border co-operation component of the IPA programme, for 2009 P.Z. No. 714? If not, I'm putting this proposal to the vote. Who's in favor of going through an emergency procedure? Against? Restraint? And this law has been incorporated by an emergency procedure unanimously with 103 votes. Seven. Does any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the programme of financing Croatia's participation in the transnational programmes of the European Territorial Cooperation of the European Regional Development Fund "South East Europe" and "Meditirane" under the component of cross-border cooperation of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) for 2009, P.Z. No. 715 under point 7? There isn't. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this Act? Thank you. Against? Restraint? A unanimous with 104 votes was accepted by this proposal. If any of the representatives or representatives have an objection to the inclusion of other points on the agenda of the 22nd session, those shall be points 8 and 9 respectively. Proposal for a decision appointing members of the State Attorney's Board of Representatives and a proposal for a decision appointing members of the State Judicial Council of the Office of Representatives. If there are no objections, then ladies and gentlemen the representatives of the supplementary agenda has been established. Thank you very much. Now we will continue with this session, I ask Mr. Vladimir Seks to take over the presidency, and I, meanwhile, give my word to the proposing representative, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic, after discussions by clubs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65875	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I thank you for everything that has been said in the debate by clubs because it is obvious that the National Council has received support for its work, and I thank everyone who has witnessed my character, because I assure you that this will be an additional incentive to work even better and more actively than ever. A successful fight against corruption is not only an important prerequisite for Croatia's entry into the European Union, it is primarily a prerequisite for a better and better quality of life in the Republic of Croatia. FROM my opening presentation as well as from what is said by clubs it is clear that corruption is a major cancer and Croatian society medicine for this cancer in the world is known. In Croatia it has started to apply recently, still insufficiently, and I stress that the National Council will make this therapy as accessible as possible, in accordance with its powers. Just a few references to some club reps. I would especially like to stress that the post of Vice-President of the National Council has been tabled on my proposal. So, I have initiated an amendment to the Businessmen and asked to introduce the post of vice president and be of the ranks of the ruling, as the president is of the opposition. Why? Unlimited power, unlimited corruption, and corruption is power plus monopoly minus transparency. And what I especially care about in the National Council, we are very different in the national council, and we rarely think differently, but that different thinking generally gives the best results. And the safest way for young people in Croatia to corrupt is to teach them to respect those who think alike than those who think differently. I would especially refer to my colleague Beus' proposal, I think it's a good idea. In Croatia, it is still unclear what political corruption is. So I'm going to suggest at the first session of the National Council that we organise one thematic session precisely on the subject of political corruption. As for his colleagues, Grubisic listed a number of cases and wondered if it was corruption. My colleagues and colleagues the answer is clear, any abuse of public authority for private purposes is corruption. Very short, counterpart Ingrid Antičević Marinovic spoke about the material conditions under which the National Council works. So, it works in modest conditions, but it seems to me that working in this mandate will be the reason why in the next term that national council needs to get better conditions for it to work even better. Therefore, I end up with what my colleague Kunst said, so it is not enough to pass laws, the EU says. Laws should be implemented in practice, and this national council has precisely this task to encourage law enforcement in practice every day because we have a good legislative framework, we have a good institutional framework. So, the picture frame is empty, the brushes are in the hands of those who should paint this picture, and our task as parliamentary representatives is to encourage all those to use this brush more and more and to make it a masterpiece of the fight against corruption in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65876	Please determine the quorum, we would move to a vote on a proposal to supplement the agenda and on the points discussed. For now, according to computer 86, we have a quorum. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the 22nd session agenda with 14 new points. First, the Final Bill of Cooperatives, second reading. Second, the Proposal for a Law on Labour and Social Courts, first reading, the Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Third, the proposal for a subsidy law and the state guarantee of housing loans with a final draft law, an emergency procedure. Fourthly, the proposal for a bill to confirm the memorandum between the Council of Ministers of Albania, the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on the settlement of the debt of the Republic of Albania on the basis of accounts related to the trade between the Republic of Albania and the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, with the final draft of the law. Fifth, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, first reading. Sixth, the proposal for a law on a guarantee fund to encourage economic development, with the final draft law, an emergency procedure. Seven, Proposal for a Law on Registers of Public Sector Employees, emergency procedure. Eight, Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on cooperation on protection against natural and technological disasters, an emergency procedure. Ninth, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the area of the prevention of natural and civilization disasters and the removal of their consequences, an emergency procedure. 10th, Proposal for a Law on Special Tax on Coffee, P.Z.E. No.724, emergency procedure. 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention of the Centre for the Implementation of the Law in Southeast Europe, an emergency procedure. 12. Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia. 13. Report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2010. 14. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that a proposal is to be adopted under an urgent procedure. I stress that the proposal for a law on special tax on coffee with the Final Proposal for the Law is an emergency procedure for P.Z.E. No. It shall comply with the rules of the European Union and in accordance with Article 161 thereof. We do not vote in the Rules of Procedure in the case of the adoption of this Act. Any of the representatives comment on the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Subsidisation Act and the state guarantee of residential loans? There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? With 80 votes for, 7 abstentions in the agenda by emergency procedure, this legislative proposal was included. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of a Memorandum of Understanding Act between the Council of Ministers of Albania and the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the settlement of the debt of the Republic of Albania on the basis of accounts relating to the trade between the Republic of Albania and the former Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia with the Final Proposal for the Law? There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? With 93 votes in favour, 2 abstentions were passed this bill. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Guarantee Fund Act to encourage economic development? There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? With 85 for, 2 abstentions go into emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Public Sector Employment Register Act? There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? With 82 for, 1 abstention, 1 against the passed this bill was incorporated into an emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on cooperation in the protection of natural and technical and technological disasters with the Final Proposal of the Law? There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? With 91 for, 1 abstention passed and this law goes according to emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the area of the prevention of natural and civilizational disasters and the elimination of their consequences, with the Final Proposal for the Law? There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? With 87 votes for, 1 abstention and this law goes according to emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law confirming the Convention of the Centre for the Implementation of the Law on South-Eastern Europe? There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? With 79 votes in favour and four abstentions, this law goes according to emergency procedure. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the 22nd session agenda. These are points 1, 2, 5, 12, 13 and 14 of the proposed additions, which are the Final Proposal for the Law on Cooperatives, second reading, Proposal for a Law on Labour and Social Courts, first reading, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Servants, first reading, Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia and the report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2010 and the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the HRT Programme Council? No objections. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65877	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue with the work of the 22nd session of the Croatian Parliament. We've got a lot of agendas left, and we're going to try to finish some of them, but I doubt we're going to finish them all that's here over 30 points of the agenda, 33. As announced, we should move on - The Final Proposal of the Law on the Guarantee Fund for the Encouragement of Economic Development, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 720 Prior to that, the president of SDP's Club of Representatives, Mr Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65878	Dear President, please take a break on behalf of the SDP Club. The reason and topic is the political situation in Zagreb and in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65879	Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65880	Well, for the same reasons and in front of the IDS club, I'm also looking for a break, and preferably, Prime Minister Kosor has already spoken to us once to explain to us what's going on in the country, whether the government is in control of the situation at all. Why is there a war with Pantochuck opening up? What is the relationship between the Government and the Croatian National Bank? And some other topical questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65881	Thank you. Mr. Koračević please, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65882	On behalf of the HNS club, we're also looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65883	Thank you. Mr. Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65884	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDSSB Club for the same reason we're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65885	Mrs Ivanka Roksandić is a HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65886	Mr. President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we're looking for a break for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65887	Thank you. Before we cross this agenda, I'm setting a 10-minute break. We're continuing 9.45 hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with our work. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic also asked for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65889	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. It has been a week since several clubs asked and asked the Croatian Prime Minister to come to the Parliament and address the parliament. According to the Croatian Constitution, the Parliament is the highest body, the highest authority of the Croatian government and laws are being passed in the Assembly and all the most important topics are being discussed in the Assembly. In addition, or on top of that, the prime minister and her closest associates made heavy accusations at the expense of the opposition, accused her of organising and financing riots, riots, breaking and assaulting police. We also asked for clarification of that attitude. Until today we have heard nothing or almost nothing, or we have heard confirmation of this attitude, so that the opposition is responsible for the crimes and refusal of the Prime Minister to come to the Croatian Parliament, which is at least politely asked of us. Now we hear that the Prime Minister, which we learned from the Dnevnik, is planning to organise consultations in the Banski Dvori. We won't respond to those consultations and I'll tell you why, if it wasn't clear by now. Therefore, dialogue is being held in parliament between the government, the executive government, the Prime Minister and parliamentary deputies, not in the Ban Courts. Despite this, countless times we went to the Ban Courts for meetings with various HDZ prime ministers, Ivo Sanader, Jadranka Kosor. On several occasions, we have left in good faith and goodwill to solve the problems in which Croatia is located and to discuss important issues of Croatian politics, society and negotiations with the European Union. You know that, right? Multiple times, personally me, my associates, my colleagues from the opposition parties. Now, that's enough. That's enough now. These meetings have always served as a medium to promote the current president or president of the HDZ government and we knew that such things did not work normally, but in good faith we still went to the Ban Courts. After the Prime Minister has repeatedly refused to come here in a week, we can't and won't go before she gets here, before she explains the accusations before we discuss issues here that we should allegedly discuss in the government. That's what we're talking about in the Parliament, not the government. Let's see what should be discussed, the conclusion of Croatian negotiations with the European Union? We can't discuss this in the Croatian Parliament? What are the secrets, what is not clear, which measured from Chapter 23. Croatia needs to be closed and what can the opposition do? I'll tell you what we can try to do. We can also talk to international partners, with the Prime Ministers as last week in Athens and realize that people unfortunately very little or insufficiently know about Croatian status and the Croatian problem and that someone on the Croatian side whose job is not done. I can only conclude that the criteria in the chapters of several weeks ago, from a few days ago are very arbitrational and written by the European Commission so that they can and do not have to be met, that in fact, in two months no one can meet them if the assessor or teacher is not well-willed. That's a fact. And can't we talk about it here in the Croatian Parliament? That's what we have to be in the Ban Courts for? It's a topic for the Croatian Parliament, we can tell ourselves that there are no secrets here. We will do everything we can on our part, and we can do much less than any of the worst governments, to close Chapter 23, and to close it as soon as possible, I repeat, as soon as we say that the prime minister says when elections will be held for the Croatian Parliament. You noticed, we don't insist on today or yesterday, but we insist on it as soon as possible within a reasonable time. We are jeopardizing the outcome of the referendum on Croatia's entry into the European Union that we know and believe is the thing to succeed and we must bring it to an end, so if we need to do it together. I mean, obviously nothing different than together. If now, after the conclusion of the negotiations, if the negotiations are concluded at 6 a.m. For a month, we'll wait another half year until the referendum won't be good and you know it and tell yourself and your president and the government he's leading. And here we have to meet, another call. Another call from HDZ presidents and prime ministers to come to parliament. We went to the Ban Courts many times, but that's enough. It's time to talk here and there's no topic you can't talk about here. I think that and that we have shown this in a clear and faithful way on these examples, and you can tell us which topic from the external policy criteria we cannot discuss in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65890	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65891	Honorable President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yesterday we've been following this war of statements on the government-Pantocks relationship. Following calls received by parliamentary parties from the President of the Republic, there was a nervous reaction from the other side of St. Mark's Square. I personally believe that at the last minute Mr. Josipovic saved the country by calling on everyone to simply talk about where all this is going in this country. On the other hand, I have the impression that the current government is simply gambling with this country while on the other hand someone is simply working to save the country. So don't you see gentlemen in HDZ that neither Mr. Rohatinski, governor of the Croatian National Bank, no longer wants to deal with the government, to avoid you in matters of fundamental national interest, to whom, how, how to place 6.3 billion kunas of credit funds. Your internal war, gentlemen of HDZ, has completely destroyed or led to the destruction of Croatian institutions. So don't you see that 80% of the citizens in this country are to leave this government, that 62% of the citizens are to vote, that 70% supports protests. And that is why the most realistic day, and it all comes down to parliamentary elections should be 24 hours after the negotiations are concluded. If negotiations are not concluded at 6 months, then there should be elections within 5 minutes after the end of the 30th day of the 6th month. And that would be a message to Europe, and stop bloating us, it would also be a message to Croatia that we will be able to do one not only touristic but also agricultural season and that we will be able to survive from it. After that, it is likely that, within a suitable period of 2 months, the handovers of the authorities should take place, the establishment of new bodies, whoever wins the elections clearly, and by the end of the year or 2 months thereafter, a referendum should also be held. I think it should be some key deal in this situation to simply avoid everyone under quotes and protests, but also that I don't know maybe the team in power gets an honorable exit. That would be respecting the will of Croatian citizens. We have a serious game now and with the Pantochuck himself. Now it doesn't matter who called the parties first. However, it is important that I paraphrase Mr. Seks who said HDZ waged a war on three fronts, not to open the fourth front. You will lose the first, second, third and battle on the fourth front. Mr. Josipovic will not side with the opposition because he takes care of whose side he will be on the next day if the opposition assumes power. So they'll be on the side of the majority, on the side of the citizens, on the side of one word of the people. And finally, gentlemen, if anyone has helped this government in the last year, and at my own expense, I dare say it was President Josipovic. And therefore, gentlemen, let's really agree on that day of parliamentary elections, because simply you in HDZ will not endure this pressure as people, you will simply crack. You can't deal with every other day under window 5 or 6 or 10,000 people running that I'm not counting all those passwords here right now. You will help yourself, you will help the state, and if you persist in that policy of yours, then you will simply help everyone, and especially yourself. And I really think that Mrs Kosor, the current prime minister, would have to come to the Parliament and have to talk to the Croatian public in some way. Simply by letting protesters be treated, I speak as hooligans, and as almost Nazis, you have made it clear that 70% of citizens support protesters, and the next day or the day after that there will be more. You must understand that this country is going down, that the people are angry, that the people are furious. But also, the people will not put a sign of equality between the team in power and the opposition, no matter what they have. Don't smoke that anymore, this people! It's just past time and keep in mind what he's telling you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65892	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65893	Mr. President, I have to correct a performance of Mr. Cain that is entirely to be rejected because here I will only quote Mr. Jakovčić who has fenced himself from the actions of Mr. Cain and the protests, so that he has no legitimacy of his party but here abuses and in some way weary this House, this House of Commons with untruths. Also, I'd have dozens of corrections and the data that benefits from the public are incorrect because they were done on the wrong samples. And Mr. Cain, don't bring up facts in this way that don't coincide with the truth, and your party president shut you out of a political act because he's been fenced since your performances.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65894	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Cain. Nothing. Let's move on. I'm the one who hurt the Rules of Procedure. [[Wait, wait.]] But... [[I didn't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65895	I didn't hear. That was so... IDS, Mr. Walkic, works a little differently than HDZ. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] But I assure you... when it comes to these protests between that qualification that you read and my performance chooses my performance in both IDS and Istria and Croatia. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65896	This is no breach of the Rules of Procedure but a debate, so we have one more time to abuse the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU Mrs. Vesna Pusic, although Mr. Koračević is but fine, okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65897	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, at least this is none of your business, but now you're listening to us. So it is obvious that there is dissatisfaction in Croatia. Polls show, however, this dissatisfaction has begun to manifest in the streets in recent weeks, began to manifest regular protests on the streets by a fairly broad public. This very fact requires the address of the prime minister to Parliament. It's not malicious, it's not a provocation, it's a regular job of the president or president of every government in the world anywhere, regardless of the events and demonstrations on the streets being one of the regular instruments of political engagement and political life in every democratic country. When that happens, then there is no need to wait for the opposition's call in Parliament, there is no need to wait for an invitation from anyone in Parliament. It is normal for the prime minister or prime minister of the country to address the public in the first place than before Parliament. So, at such a time, to address the public in front of the Parliament who chose her note bene. If you want in front of the parliamentary majority who chose her and then the parliamentary minority and says the people in the country are the situation and that's the way our plans are. We will make the following moves because it is, among other things, a way to stabilise the situation, to calm the situation, and it is an integral part of the regular work of each Prime Minister, so that our opinion in the club of the HNS and HSU is that it really shouldn't have waited for any call, that it is simply the first day of Parliament's session, after it has proved to be demonstrated on the streets of this country, the prime minister should be here in Parliament alone to ask the President of Parliament to address the Parliament and say what it is. This should not be any form of conflict or provocation, nor should it be, but is an integral part of the job and we believe today that this is the way it should have been done. The second component, other than this spilling dissatisfaction into the streets, is the fact that negotiations need to be completed. Negotiations need to be completed, which requires a certain stability. The question is only at this point what contributes to this stability. Like all of us sitting here, and all the people who have ever dealt with politics know the choice of the moment, time is a key factor in politics. A few months ago it was realistic to say for stability we needed to complete the negotiations, sign the accession agreement, go to the referendum and then go to the elections. That time has changed. It's not like that anymore. Today it is quite obvious that any referendum or any public declaration by the citizens of this country before the elections would not be a referendum on the European Union, but would be a referendum on the Government. At a time when the government has 13% support with big jobs, including people sitting in this government, 11 years of age should not be gambled, and should not think more about going to a referendum on the European Union before going to elections, because we will risk losing all of this referendum together, and in this project which, in the long run, perhaps the question of survival as to the stability of the institution, has been invested by many people in this country, including many people in this government. So you don't have to gamble with that. And today it is clear that we need elections, and then a referendum. That we can't go to a referendum before that, and anyone who wants to contribute to the stability of this country and our chance to complete this big project in which many have invested, I think they will recognize and accept the fact that it is the date of the elections right after the end of the negotiations, whether it is 26.6, whether another date is ours, the last intergovernmental conference is 21.6, but determining the date of the election contributes to stability, and contributing to the success of this project called Croatia in the European Union, where many have worked for many years. So I think at this point it's time to put the country's interest ahead of any particular interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65898	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65899	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today is a clean Wednesday or Cinderella, the beginning of useful time. It's not just a day of restlessness and fasting, it's also a day of penance and thinking. It is time for Christians to be obedient for the Easter feast, to prepare for the resurrection with prayer, fasting, listening, and reading of God’s Word, and good works. Throughout Croatia today, we have tens of thousands of people on the streets, not happy people, but unhappy, unemployed, disreputed, poor, betrayed, disappointed, bitter and sad. On the streets and roads are young, unemployed, those who work, but without pay, pensioners, peasants, defenders. The extent of the robbery that people had to endure has already reached almost epic proportions. Today we have two Croatians, we have Croatia on the streets that wants the government in the chairs to hear it, and we have Croatia in the chairs that those in the streets do not hear and do not want to hear. Today is 612 days since Jadranka Kosor became prime minister of the Republic of Croatia. After more than 20 months at the head of the Croatian government, Croatia is on its knees, the people are on the streets, ruling in the clouds. In Croatia, HDZ can be said to have divided it into us and them. It is an honor to be president of a government of a state, that is indeed so, but a man must be aware of both his reach and his opportunities. Jadranka Kosor was a correspondent for Vecernji list and journalist Radio Zagreb, successfully led on Croatian Radio during the Homeland War emissions for exiles, refugees and victims from the Homeland War, but run some radio show and run the country are sky and country. It's not the same to push in front of cameras to the first man in the government and be the first man in the government. It's not the same to cook in your kitchen and be a cook in the Bani Courts. To make statements, as Prime Minister Kosor gives, but her ministers are also a sign of total disorientation and panic. Croatia is moaning today because of HDZ's misdeeds, and HDZ looks more and more like a ruling party every day, but rather of a penal war. As I was saying earlier today, it is a clean Wednesday or Cinderella, the beginning of a useful time, the time in which Christians prepare for the Easter feast, prepare to celebrate the Easter with prayer, fasting, listening, and reading God’s Word, and good works. The HDZ's ruling structure, which has brought the Croatian state here where it is, this time of use is indeed a time for penance, will really require a lot of prayers for the forgiveness of all the sins they have committed towards their own people and the state. It will also need to fast, but it will not be any bigger problem especially for those who eat from Remetine's kitchen. And he will hear and read much, and the words of God, and especially those of the Ten Commandments of God spoken by me, I am your Lord God; do not have other gods with me, especially money and brightness of power, do not steal, nor will he want any thing of his neighbour, he will listen and read and think about them, but also many pages will be read, both of the Uskok and the DORH documents. And they'll be thought about, too. And as for good deeds, HDZ's ruling set now has a unique opportunity to do a great good deed for itself, and for all Croatian citizens and for the entire Croatian state, let them now leave power. Because even the other day, we heard something from high international representatives that is embarrassing to the Republic of Croatia. We've become an example to others of how they don't run the country. On January 1, 1981, it was 30 years, as an international system of measuring units was introduced in Croatia. The arrested prime minister, former HDZ president Ivo Sanader, is also an example of the reason that another international unit has entered the scene, which is also contributed by the Republic of Croatia, which is one HDZ as an international unit for organised crime and corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65900	We agreed, it seems in vain, that neither party nor individual will be offended. This is another heavy charge here from the Croatian Parliament's pay phone and I don't think there's any point in even negotiating or meeting how we're going to behave in this House anymore. Because whenever anyone gets an opportunity, he does what he's done down the road. This is what you have now reiterated, Mr Buric, although in the extended presidency, you agreed that this would never happen again. On behalf of the HDZ Club, and we have one correction to the incorrect quote, Mrs. Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65901	Well, Mr. President, I wouldn't normally report for corrections to this Mr. Buric, but in his pathetic speech full of charges and insults, he mentioned Prime Minister Kosor in an inappropriate way and said she was unaware of her options. I want to disprove you. She has just proved, Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, by launching negotiations, by bringing Croatia before the end of the negotiations, by fighting what you are talking about corruption and crime, by signing an agreement with the Republic of Slovenia has just proved the opposite of what you are trying to impute here in a very rude manner. Maybe in the atmosphere of March 8th that was yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65902	On behalf of the HDZ Club Mr. Vladimir Shakespeare Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65903	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I will refer to serious objections to the opposition, the SDP Representatives' Club, the HNS-HSU. These requirements are concentrated according to one, in fact, on the one hand, that the Prime Minister should come before the Parliament and be shown about the state of the country, the situation in Zagreb, to show also the accusations that, according to the SDP's Club of Representatives of the HDZ, he made at the expense of opposition to the financing and promotion of violence on the streets and the organisation of violence on the streets. The relationship between the Government and the Croatian Parliament is regulated by the Constitution. The government runs foreign policy, the government is responsible for the political Croatian Parliament, the Rules of Procedure and the Croatian Constitution, it is determined that, at the request of the Croatian Parliament, the Government should submit reports on any issues from internal and foreign policy, that it is necessary to submit and answer and provide information. This request by the SDP and HNS Representatives Club is precisely on the basis of the fact that the Prime Minister will come before the Parliament and that all of these issues have been raised. This requires a decision from the Croatian Parliament. It takes the Croatian Parliament's decision to accept or remove the request of a part of the MP, which is the parliamentary opposition here. This relationship between the Government and the Parliament was arranged and I say to the Constitution in the direction of voting the trust or mistrust of the Government or the Prime Minister through parliamentary issues and through all other institutions of the Rules of Procedure, as communicated by the Government and the Croatian Parliament. You have already repeatedly asked the Prime Minister to come before the Croatian Parliament and to respond primarily to those charges you have brought. The Prime Minister is well aware of that. I remind you that in the period from 2000 to 2003, a parliamentary minority has asked a number of times for the Prime Minister to come before the Croatian Parliament on various issues and questions, and it has not been resolved every time, but it has been removed a number of times. So I have the exact information about it. ... Don't throw it away. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Secondly, all the questions raised here are to be answered, when it will be the election date, the government's resignation, whether the elections before the referendum either after the conclusion or before the accession negotiations are concluded before the referendum. These are issues that are settled in the Constitution, and they are not resolved with one ultimate pressure and intervention to force the ruling coalition, by acting on pressure and ultimatum, to ultimately lead to the government's resignation, to the vote being called. Choose now and now. It's an opposition request. Choose now and now. This would mean that the government should resign or that it should be given no confidence in this House. If you want to vote no confidence in the Government, then go to parliamentary procedure and propose a debate on the non-confidential vote of the Government. And do not use this kind of pressure by demanding that a political decision be taken in this House to determine the date of the election, that the term should be completed immediately so that it will be the conclusion of the accession negotiations related to the referendum. These are all issues to be addressed as part of the constitutional order, not in one extorted and ultimate way. Whether the Prime Minister will come or not to the Croatian Parliament and answer your questions and submit certain reports or respond to your requests, may he decide on your request, let him decide in accordance with the Constitution and the Croatian Assembly by his decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65904	Thank you. We have 7 corrections of incorrect allegations. First is Vice-President Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65905	It is not only incorrect but it is entirely inappropriate that Mr. President Seks, in his earlier speech, is calling on the prime minister of the 2000-2003 period of the late Ivica Racan. First, it is completely unnecessary for you to involve him at this time in political talks, and secondly, it is true and true that Mr. Ivica Racan is as Prime Minister when someone from the Parliament would ask for his arrival in the government, interrupt meetings of international obligations and come and stand before all parliamentary deputies. That's the truth and that's the exact quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65906	Injury of the Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65907	209. If you had listened a little bit more carefully than you had listened to, then you would have noticed that I said that the parliamentary minority had asked on several occasions for the Prime Minister to come to the Croatian Parliament, but in a number of occasions... /The speaker turned off./... about that I have documented data that I can do in ten minutes... /The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65908	Please don't turn it off, let Mr. Vice President finish his presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65909	With this society, it is difficult to end, very difficult, which behaves in this way, which same with one pressure, with one throw, seeks to make it impossible for a man to say something in the Croatian Parliament. It's your usual style and practice. You can't handle a different opinion. You can't stand it, so that's how you behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65910	Thank you. This was more of a replica than a business injury. We have further Mrs. Representative Dragica Zgrebec, also a correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65911	Since I've been in Parliament since '95. in the first place, I can testify that it is incorrect that during the period 2000 to 2003 the then Prime Minister Ivica Racan did not come at every request from Parliament to explain the government's policy. He sent his deputy, Mr. Goran Granic, one time, because it was operational affairs related to co-operation with The Hague court, and Mr. Granic was in charge of the affairs in the government right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65912	The vice president's injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65913	The same 209. I didn't say that the former prime minister of the government that I respect and appreciate. You won't explain it to me, if I explain that it's a business injury, then you won't confuse me and throw me away. It's the old tried-out tactics of your club, the old tried-out. Now you're gonna throw, don't be nervous or anything, right? It's already lazy old tactics. I didn't tell my colleague Zgrebec in one word I didn't say that the Prime Minister Ivica Racan had always come to the Parliament. I said that sometimes there were cases when the parliamentary minority asked to come to the Parliament, but that didn't happen. With a few minutes, I'll show you this nicely, and I'll show you through all the phonograms of the 2000 to 2003 Assembly session. I don't reduce anything with it, and I don't insult the character and the work of the Racans I respect and appreciate, but I don't appreciate these reasons and your provocations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65914	Thank you. I must say that the Institute of Injuries is used as a replica, that is, to correct an incorrect assumption. I mean, it's not the first time, but it's not the last. So we have one violation of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Maras now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65915	Thank you very much. So that Kulusic what I'm about to say is true. The Businessman was injured, and you saw it yourself, Mr. President, on two occasions you told Vice President Shakespeare that he was using a replica, and he's raising an injury to the Businessman. So I'm asking you if you do it the third time to take away his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65916	Look, this is nothing new in the Croatian Parliament and it's not the first or the last time. I therefore point out the need, however, to try to agree in this session of the Parliament on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure that corrections, replicas, I don't know or injuries of the Businessmen are not used in such a way as we have so far, but we all admit it and no one will do anything about it, right? Perhaps the official Committee on the Constitution, the Businessman and the political system should also raise the issue of changes to the Rules of Procedure and finally take it off the agenda once and for all because this will be repeated over and over again. We have Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65917	Inaccurately, Mr. Shakespeare claimed that there were cases when the late Ivica Racan, as prime minister, did not come to the Parliament. That's not true. First of all, Ivica Racan was not only a statesman and a politician but he was a decent man and he came every time. One time he did not come to mention his colleague Zgrebec, and then he sent a colleague to Vice President Granic. It's true, Mr. Shakespeare, and you know it well. Therefore, not only are you telling the lie by justifying and seeking at all costs, I do not know from what and who to protect the prime minister from coming here because it is the place where she has to address the MPs, so in such a way not incorrectly but also very incorrectly her own thesis, you are very wrongly insinuating the false allegations and thus insulting the late Ivica Racan, and you are insulting our healthy brain because we are all here to witness it. Look at the logs, look at the stenograms, and you'll see when it was when one of the only times didn't come. The government and the government's session broke up, came here to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65918	Now I have an explanation. No one here has claimed nor has Vice President Shakespeare that the late Prime Minister Racan has come here at the invitation of the Parliament. He said he didn't come to the opposition sometimes. It's still two different cases. So when the Prime Minister calls the Parliament, I believe that every prime minister has responded to that. However, Vice President Shakespeare claimed that he sometimes did not come if she asked for a minority in the Parliament. That's how much that distance is needed here. So now we're not doing it again. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Vice President...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65919	I'll say the same thing, Mr. President, that 209th famous article. It is correct, colleague Anticevic corrects my incorrect claim, and I did not say it at all, so you are correcting something that I did not say, and now that is what the President of the Parliament has mentioned. Listen carefully, listen carefully, and then correct something I allegedly said as incorrect. But listen carefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65920	Thank you. I think it's unnecessary and third, fourth time to clarify this, so let's just assume we've cleared this up. And now we're going to move on and we're going to give Mrs. Marija Lugaric a word for correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65921	It is an incorrect allegation, counterpart Shakespeare, that the late Prime Minister Racan did not respond to the opposition's calls. At that time, I was sitting here as a representative in the Croatian Parliament as well as you and I know very well that Prime Minister Racan, but other ministers came here to the Croatian Parliament despite the fact that it was not a situation like today, despite the fact that 150 people were not left without a job like today, despite the fact that 70% of the citizens as today did not ask for government departure and when people did not demonstrate. It came the other way whenever you asked for it, when you organized the chestnut picking, when Milinovic tied himself up with chains, when you organized a Split waterfront when the fires started. These are the situations I just remembered. However, no matter what you say here, however, it cannot hide one fact: Mrs Jadranka Kosor shows only that she is afraid of the Croatian Parliament, that she is afraid of Croatian citizens and all I can conclude is that she has reason to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65922	Correction, Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65923	Thank you very much. I would correct Mr. Shakespeare's incorrect claim that motivation is everything the opposition wants right now. The opposition or SDP does not want elections right away, but it wants us to agree in the Assembly on the date of the elections that should not be after September of the month because the gentlemen of the HDZ, your behaviour, rejection and rejection of the problem under the rug, will question Croatia's entry into the European Union. If the referendum is after the elections for the Croatian Parliament, the chance for it to be positive for us is much, much smaller. HDZ could be the undertaker of Croatia's entry into the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65924	Correction, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65925	Thank you. It is not true that counterpart Seksa said Prime Minister Ivica Racan did not appear in the Parliament when it was sought by a minority. They can confirm this as a full-time representative in the Parliament, and it is true that Prime Minister Sanader, then HDZ president and today's HDZ president and prime minister of the government have not responded for one single time when the parliamentary minority asked for it. That's true, and most never asked their prime minister to come specifically to the Parliament. It's always for a minority. So the truth is quite the opposite of what fellow Shakespeare is saying. Ivica was coming, Prime Minister Sanader and Prime Minister Kosor won't come here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65926	We'll agree that it's been a while and some details that we can claim 100% doubt. And I sat in the Parliament the whole time. Mr. Damir Cain, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65927	Well, I understand this anxiety because that anxiety comes from sleeplessness, but that's not why I'm happy. And now to correct the wrong quote. The vice-president of the parliament says pressure from the opposition is a requirement for the prime minister to come to parliament. Well, I guess that's one of the most normal things the opposition has ever set up. Well, the pressure is something else, the decline in gross social product three years in a row. The fact is that in the term of Mrs Jadranka Kosor in this country or this country has lost 140 thousand jobs. Well, the pressure is this communication between the government and the president of the Republic. This act of Mr. Rohatinski, where he escapes openly and thus sends a message to the government that he no longer wants to deal with it, but good. Mrs. Kosor won't go to the Parliament, so the people under the Parliament can't influence her, and the gentlemen can't influence it, the opposition can't influence it, the police can't...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65928	Thank you. It's already going into debate, not correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65929	... It took longer, that everyone in this country will feel worse, and especially it will be difficult for those who lead.../The speaker turned off./... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65930	Thank you very much. I'm going to report these requests to the Prime Minister again. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This morning they would have extended the agenda for two points in the health care area.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65932	Dear President, please... [[The noise in the hall, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65933	Here you go. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established. Thank you very much for waiting, but here we are. What? ... The word was sought by the president of the SDP club, Mr. Zoran Milanovic. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And you've already asked for a break. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Any further initiatives regarding the break? Here's Mr. Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65934	They shut me out.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65935	After we determine the addition of the agenda as we always do before, let's say, the current clock to determine the agenda, and then we go right after that, right after the agenda. So I'm asking the clubs to sort of help us out a little bit to say these two points of the agenda, I say from the area are health care. But even if they weren't, then we'll get in the way. We've got 74 MPs and a representative. So, we're down three more. In the meantime, some others are coming out, but those who are coming out, I'm asking them to come back and invite their colleagues and colleagues who are sitting right here at the door to come in because we're gonna finish it all in two minutes. Here. ... What? [[You can't hear it.]] Because I see they're, I guess they're from some clubs that will only ask for the word of those who will speak. Now I'm just... I don't think it makes sense this way to waste time. That's number one. Second, the Parliament needs to work. He has a need to expand the agenda, supplement the agenda, and I don't know who that doesn't suit. I can't come to some conclusion that's why he doesn't want to vote on the agenda. I don't know if those below the balcony count, so can't this guy see them upstairs? What's the status now? There's another one missing. It's Mr. Leco. He's sitting right there. Here. Mr. Leco and Mr. Bauk are here, so they can count. In the meantime, Mr. Bauk is coming out. People, I have to wait, and then you have to wait. What? Is it okay now? 78. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, let us not waste any further time on behalf of those waiting for the club to announce their speech pursuant to Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 22nd session with two new points. So we have 78 MPs present. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parent support with the Final Proposal for the Law. It's an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. 726. Second, the Proposal for a Law amending the Mandatory Health Insurance Act with the Final Proposal for a Law. Also emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 727. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a single law is subject to an urgent procedure. I stress the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity and parental support with the final proposal for the Law of P.Z.E. No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of this law. Any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Law on compulsory health insurance of P.Z. No. Point 2.727. Is there? There isn't. If there isn't, then we'll go to the vote. Please, do we all have the keys? Please, if there's no key, then we'll raise our hands, you know. Well, I can see that some people report they don't have keys, then we'll raise our hands. Who is it that this point goes into procedure by emergency procedure please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? So, I find that with 76 votes for, 2 abstentions this law has been voted to go into procedure by emergency procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established. Thank you very much for waiting, but here we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65936	Ladies and gentlemen, we begin by asking a question to the Government or to an individual member of the Government in accordance with the provisions of Rules of Procedure of Articles 180 to 184. The current morning shall be held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. First in line is Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65937	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's a question for the Prime Minister. Madam Prime Minister, in your daily appearances you repeat, zero tolerance for corruption, the fight against corruption to the last breath, and you make a request, an appeal for help in this struggle. It's less about this... domestic or import corruption. However, I believe that we have a problem in Croatia and with political corruption, because corruption is not only when money is given to someone, and it is apparent that it is almost impossible to get a job in the public or state sector across Croatia at the lowest levels in the municipality of various places without asking candidates to sign party accessions. And not only the HDZ but also other coalition parties or those who are local or regional in power. It is witnessed daily by people who experience such experiences. So far, I have never heard a single public statement against this political corruption, and I am not going to talk now about public enterprises and candidates for administrations of the latest. So I ask you, why haven't you and when will you publicly and clearly ban this kind of political corruption in the employment of people in the public and state sectors? Of course this applies when I say to the public and to what is owned and founding rights local and regional self-government in Croatia. I believe that these types of political corruption equally gnaws the foundation of constitutional order equality of citizens... with laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65938	Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65939	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, I agree with you that any form of corruption, certainly political corruption, should be fought by all means. I don't think you heard me or understood what I said very often. I'm talking about exactly what you're talking about and what's the point of your question. I will mention only one example to you, so this government has decided to depolitize, for example, state-owned supervisory committees or those that are largely owned by the state. And right on track with that political decision of ours, we, as I believe, have, you know, actually done the job most of the time. Therefore, we have opened tenders for members of the supervisory boards of all major public companies, i.e. I repeat public enterprises in the bulky ownership of the state and this process is absolutely near the end. One of the last ones was the INA Supervisory Board competition, and the basic criteria for selecting members of the Supervisory Board are professionality, certainly not political similarity or belonging to any party. If all of you, as you say, are facing such examples, and it is good that you have pointed out that you have some examples from the life of the local community, I ask you to deliver it to me personally, and we can discuss whatever you have, I will also invest all of my hard work and effort and knowledge, but of course the position from which I answer your question so that we can do so in each case and individually if it has been resolved. I am the first, but certainly my colleagues in the government and members and members of the ruling coalition who are trying to remove what you call political corruption, because we also remember the time, I believe that you remember, when literally the change of government has removed members of the governing council of kindergartens for example or hospitals, but also literally confused, but also ergel, for example, so Ergel in Djakov. Here is the Vice-President of the Parliament who was thus removed from the Governing Council or from one of the bodies of a bachelor. So, I agree with you, I need to do everything. I am not calling for help in the fight against corruption, I am calling for co-operation. And thank you very much for coming forward and for wanting to participate in this big and important process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65940	Thank you. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65941	Madam President, I'm not satisfied. In response, you told me that I didn't understand anything, and apparently you didn't understand me. I was talking about blackmailing people for the most ordinary employment, not the administrations of public enterprises that you have depolized. I am talking about the working existence of every citizen who wants to get a job in any public sector of public enterprises. They are being blackmailed to have to sign an accession to the ruling party before that. That's what I asked you and that's what I was talking about. Don't deal with the marble or stop anything, because people are witnesses of it. I will please you when I get the consent of each and every one of them to send in candidates for resignation who were the only one who could get a job. If you want these people to get fired you'll get that list, just give them a guarantee... But I expected from you a statement that right now of all... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65942	Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65943	If nobody else was being blackmailed...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65944	Thank you very much. Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65945	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm asking Mrs. Prime Minister's question. A while ago, your economic adviser Mr. Borislav Škegro presented to the public a plan to urgently sell out Croatia's electricity, highways, forests, water, one word of all remaining national wealth through investment funds. That the sale of this national treasure is really considering is confirmed by you when you went public with the information that you are conducting consultations in the coalition on this subject, and also after that you announced that you will thus support the Quaestus Fund market on the stock market increased by 28%. I ask you, Mrs. Kosor, it is well known that the Quaestus Investment Fund is actually in the hands of your adviser, Mr. Berislav Škegra, your economic adviser, whether in this case it is obviously a conflict of interest, and perhaps I am saying, and an attempt to rob if the national wealth is poured into the private pockets of your closest associates, Mrs. Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65946	Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65947	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam MPs. About what Mr. Not Berislav Skegro said but Borislav Skegro said, believe me, I haven't found out yet because I haven't been able to read his interview yet, but only the clues of the interview, but here you are encouraging me to read it all. I don't really have anything to do with Quaestus, nor have I ever talked to Mr. Skegro about it, but Mr. Skegro is my advisor to the government for economic matters, along with three other consultants who advise. So I refuse absolutely your malicious insinuations that Mr. Skegro would in any way have any kind of convenience because of the fact that he's my advisor. I invited your SDP economic experts to join if they had any good ideas to say it, so we'll consider it. But the idea, as you probably know well, is not on that side but only... I've been talking about this, an indication of what we should be doing in the future to make certain improvements in what is most important to us, and that is economic growth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I didn't say one word about the sale, and I didn't say one word about any particular company, although at the press conference on the journalist's inquiry, I made it very clear that, for example, no talks about HEP, but also about the woods, about water, about what national wealth can't be. However, I'm surprised you're asking me about the sale exactly when we have information that the Croatian public certainly didn't forget when you were talking about the sale. In 2001, HT for 500 million euros, 2002. Rijeka Bank for 55m euros, 2002, second part of PBZ privatisation for 140m, 2002. Split Bank for 37m euros, 2002. The hotel... , 2002. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Hotel Croatia Cavtat 100 million kuna, 2003. 25+1 shares of INA for 505 million dollars. In addition to the fact that the sale was financed by a deficit that was 5.4% in 2003. Therefore, in this government, there is no discussion in this ruling coalition on the sale of wealth, but there are discussions on rational behaviour and on strengthening economic flows. That's what we'll be working on. I assure you from all my might, no matter what the plantings.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65948	Thank you. Representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65949	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kosor. All these allegations I said can be read and read by the public in the press, so I didn't make up anything I said. We do not need to talk about Quaestus and Mr Skegra further, as a major economic expert has ruined the Croatian economy by strengthening imports and consumption, not production and exports. And about what you told us, what you objected to, that money went into the budget, not in Barisic's bag. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65950	Madam representative Nadica Jelash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65951	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. President of the Government, in the last year and a half since your former fugitives have appointed his successor to the standard of living of Croatian citizens from day to day, wages and pensions have fallen realistically, he collects food daily, the next gas bill could be 40% higher, the credits in Swiss fly to heaven, and every tenth credit is unfortunately non-refundable. Due to the citizens' performance, we pay almost as much as the Swiss, and millions of Croatian citizens live in the poverty zone. Yes, when it comes to the high cost of living, we can really compare with Switzerland, but when it comes to economic growth, then they compare us with Kazakhstan. The obtained gross domestic product is at the level of 2004, so 6 years is completely and forever lost while others grow and develop. The citizens have lost all hope that anything will change for the better while you run this and this kind of government. They're desperate, they're desperate, and they're afraid that tomorrow they'll be among those 250 people who stay out of work, that because of the inability to pay off the war, the houses will go to the drum, that they won't be able to pay for the directing and finally, that they won't have anything to give the kids to eat. So, while Croatian citizens have a thousand reasons to worry and fear you smile does not come off their faces. Tell us a secret where you build your optimism and what you're actually laughing at.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65952	Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65953	Thank you very much, ma'am. During the war, the Homeland War during the defense of Croatia while I was doing shows on Croatian Radio, a boy wrote me a song about what he had been through hard. And he said at first, and at the end of that song, "I didn't give them a smile." That way I won't give you my smile either. So, I'll get... Whatever you say, however you and the members of the government and members of the HDZ want to humiliate you will not succeed because we know what we are doing. [[Applause.]] We are fighting with all our colleagues in the ruling crisis coalition to complete negotiations to join the European Union, but also in the fight against corruption we are very strong, and you are absolutely giving us no support and no support. The answer to our question first of all is I have to correct it because you're talking about me being someone's heiress. Croatia is a parliamentary democracy, ma'am. Croatia is not a monarchy and there is no succession. That's where the government members, Madam MPs, are elected in Parliament. One who gets a mandate from the President of the Republic comes to the Croatian Parliament and then proposes to the government. That's how Mrs. Representative was in my case, too. So, I am no one's successor, but I, with a mandate, with the signatures of supporters who support, who have come to parliament, in parliamentary democracy, passed the accounts, proposed a programme and received a mandate to lead the government. That's the way it is. It is always good to read the Constitution sometimes, and those who may never have read it well and read it for the first time if they have not already arrived. As far as I'm concerned, you mentioned gasoline. So I believe that sometimes you have information from around the world about how things are on the market, how things are around the world, how they certainly stand with food prices and others. What I'm trying to tell you about getting out of the crisis is that Madam MPs have good signs. Last year, exports increased by 16.6%. Imports are down. It also grows in retail trade, meaning the percentage related to retail trade is growing, which is still talking about restoring optimism. Citizens' savings are growing in banks. You also need to know that. But what's also important is that after six consecutive quarters where GDP fell, we saw growth in the third quarter last year. It's not a big 0.2%, but it's a sign that things have started. And I also repeat today we have presented 30 major investment projects. We expect a lot from them. In the reconstruction of the government here, we also got a vice president in charge of investments that will deal exclusively with it. And if we do one part of that work, and I'm more than sure today that we will have more economic growth, and maybe from the one we announced we stood very honestly in front of you and said it would be 1.5%. However, international institutions are predicting that it could be even bigger. I believe, among other things, that you read in "The Economist" they predict greater growth. Therefore, we will continue to work hard, work hard, absolutely to the last breath in all these jobs you can be sure of. And in the end, since you are, I will mention the deficit. Our deficit is certainly not at the bottom, or at the, better put at the top when it comes to the deficits of Europe or the countries of the European Union. He's in one middle. However, since you mentioned Kazakhstan, I do not understand why, in an offensive way, why you allow yourself as an advocate to insult people, valuable people who work there and who are also as sure as we are in Croatia are struggling with the crisis. Here, Madam Representative, be assured that we will step forward as hard as this does not cheer you and however you do not rejoice and GDP growth and increase exports. We will endure it because there are those who rejoice. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65954	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65955	Prime Minister, I have referred my question to you more as a person not as Prime Minister or prime minister as a politician. Sometimes, let me. Sometimes when you were just a member of the government, you knew how to shed tears more often. Now that you're prime minister, when you're first in government, so you're laughing now. A man simply cannot believe that he has so little compassion for those who, because of you in this country, are extremely difficult. That's what the minister, former Minister Schuker, laughed at, and you replaced him. And your smile will change the election of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65956	Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65957	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to refer the debate to the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Damir Byce. What are the expectations of tourism in 2011 and are we ready for the upcoming tourist season, i.e. what measures and actions the Ministry of Tourism is taking to make the upcoming tourist season even more successful.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65958	Mr. Minister Damir Byce. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65959	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Parliamentary Representative. I must say that Croatian tourism was still in 2010 when it lasted, and of course it lasted until 31.12. knew that 2011 would be one or two easier years. By 2011, we must be fully prepared. Therefore, the Ministry of Tourism has also prepared an action plan adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the 11th month, which allowed us to be very active in the new measures that we have foreseen for this year 2011. In fact, we are fighting Italy, France, Spain, with the greatest forces in Europe's tourism, so I would say the world. And so everything we've done, and what's actually ending in January... Probably in March will allow us to be what we want to be competitive in the European environment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would point out, of course, that we don't expect anyone to give us anything. The 2010 results are not transmitted in 2011 and I will say that in 2010, we were almost twice as good as the average of Europe. Of course I have to say that and a colleague... The prime minister took part in this, and we expect that, with this kind of work, with the investment of all of us, we can repeat what we want, and that is to say, to be at least the same as Europe, and perhaps better than the average of Europe, because the increased market share is something that is binding. [[You don't understand.]] The measures are diverse, they are aimed at a foreign market, according to the domestic market, and for me particularly important for the first time the government has made a decision concerning tourism undeveloped parts of Croatia, along with what I have to say, the second one is a bit of a follow-up, which is actually a visa regime that is liberalized towards a number of countries, a delivery to distant markets, and hopefully a home guest's return, we could expect a solid and good season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65960	Thank you, Mr. Minister, I am pleased with the answer and are particularly looking forward to the measures that appear to be made by the competent ministry, and regarding development and continental tourism, which I believe will make it even more successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65961	Mr. Agent Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65962	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, president and members of the government. I'd like to ask the Minister of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning and Construction. And the question concerns geodetic services. I would like to ask whether the State Geodetic Authority will review the proposed prices for individual services, the development of elaborates, parcels, changes, the purpose of particles, etc., and determine the justification of such prices especially for the price of field work and data processing, given the state and the material possibilities of most users of these services? I've spoken on that subject two or three times already. I would further support this question with a few facts. Let's say why special geodetics on the basis, whose price exceeds 5 thousand kuna, are necessary for the construction of housing projects, since before the adoption of the new Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, the same project was designed on situation plans, which had far lower prices. Or the example of correcting, it is absurdly correcting and maintaining the catastras, or land books, that is, over 6 thousand and 600 kuna per tariff, regardless of who is responsible for the failures. I would ask that this issue be seriously considered, because we already have a lot of cases of unresolved property-legal relations that have just been hitched because people are not able to pay such a high tariff.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65963	Minister Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65964	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, the Honorable MPs and MPs. So here's the answer to your question, Mr. Representative, I'd like to say that the State Geodetic Administration does not, in fact, determine the price of geodetic services. In the system of technical chambers in the Republic of Croatia, which was established 11 years ago, prices are determined by the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Geodesy Engineers, although agreed by the State Geodesy Administration. The regulation you are talking about, or prices based on the Regulation, was passed in 1999 by the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Engineers. However, given that all acts of the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Engineers are subject to review, at this very moment the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Engineers will be given a new regulation, on which confirmation and consent will definitely need to be given by the State Geodetic Administration. Otherwise, what I want to say to you, I personally believe that the price list of geodetic services and products is suitable for the necessary expertise, knowledge, accuracy and quality of a particular geodetic work, and the volume of work that a particular product and individual services need to do in order to produce a document that satisfies the implementation of the cataster and the land book. As for this second part of your question relating to the justification of making a specific geodetic base, and the price of such, making such a basis, it has, this geodetic basis defined by the 2007 Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, and so far for the past 3 and a half years, absolutely indicated the justification for the adoption of such a geodetic basis. The special geodetic background on the one hand makes it easier for the designer to do business, on the other hand, absolutely contributes to the legality of construction in Croatia, which was not the case until then, and which is no less important for me to contribute to the construction and situation of the cataster and the situation in the land book. So before that... The plan you were talking about was not at the height of the necessary quality, which is a special geodetic background. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, here I end up, right now the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Engineers is reviewing the prices currently in the Republic of Croatia, but in nature and it is very important to say that authorised geodesy engineers do not respect this rule and are already going with prices below the existing rule, given the reduced volume of investment in Croatian construction, and then also in Croatian geodesy activities, and in this way they are below the existing prices, which I said, in terms of quality and necessary work, are absolutely justified. Therefore, here in the next period we will adopt a new rule, not the State Geodetic Administration as you have said, but the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Engineers, and I believe that what you said will be presented in this sense and evaluated, that will also be thought about when the new rule of the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Geodesy Engineers is adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65965	Mr. Agent Denesh Shaw.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65966	Thank you very much. I am truly pleased with this answer, from this professional aspect, but I will be truly very pleased when the tariff is reduced, because I have put the accent on that, and I would pray in this respect for a certain understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65967	Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65968	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I refer my question to Prime Minister Kosor. Dear Mrs. Kosor, about two weeks ago somewhere, Tuesday was, on January 11, this year you met with one of your coalition partners, Mr. Fristic of the Croatian Peasant Party. After the meeting you announced to all Croatian citizens that you are extremely satisfied with the work of the ruling coalition. About a little over a year ago, more precisely on 5 January 2010, you also held a similar meeting with coalition partners, after which you also stated that you were very pleased, especially by the coalition's resolution of all Croatia's problems. My question is, what is it that you, Mrs Kosor, Madam Prime Minister, have satisfied and what burning Croatian problems have your coalition solved in the last year?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65969	Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65970	Thank you very much. Madam MPs, the time I'm allowed is absolutely not enough to say one hundred of what we've done, but I'll do my best. I just need to fix you up a little bit. So, it's true, the truth is, I had lunch with Mr. Fristic, but we didn't, it was a little short meal where they didn't eat any specialties, we can deliver the menu to you. There was no tuna or sushi or anything like that, but we ate some soup and some change. They were our secretaries, the secretary general of HSS and HDZ at that lunch. We have not revealed, it is incorrect what you say that we have announced that we have met and had lunch. As you know, at least we took a picture at that lunch because it's such a working date, but we talked about what's ahead of us. As you know, and I don't know why you didn't mention it, we've had a recent coalition lunch in the government that all members of the coalition have brought to. So that was the lunch we prepared ourselves, and this lunch we paid absolutely for, so that's what you're talking about. And what you're mentioning is a meeting in January last year, yes, there was a meeting. There are many meetings in the ruling coalition and we are agreeing on things that are currently happening, we are discussing problems that must be addressed at present, but also those that are coming, or those that we are predicting, or we are discussing projects. So, what did we do? Madam MPs, very much so. Among other things, we've prepared, I'll start at the end, the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which puts responsibility in a different way in a country that you didn't want to vote for. We have also brought a budget for 2011, where we have first frozen the expenditure of the state budget, included in such frozen expenditures and expenditures for the EU referendum, expenditure on parliamentary elections, expenditure on pensions increased, but also some major commitments relating to the repayment of loans, but also to economic projects. You also did not want to vote for that budget. We, as you know, have entered major projects related to stabilisation and budget and finance. We, as I believe you know, have succeeded in various very difficult decisions that went for rationalization, i.e. on the rationalization trail, reduced the total expenditures in the last year by 3.5 billion or better put for so much budget would have been bigger if we hadn't done that whole big job. We've also made order in state-owned enterprises. I'll tell you about HEP, it might be closest to you because we all depend on HEP. HEP owed around the end of 2009, i.e. in early 2010 billions and 800 million kuna. HEP doesn't owe anything today, HEP has just moved on to a large investment cycle. Here, the Dubrovnik Trafo station is already being built, i.e. on Plato, we continue. We're going with the hydropower plant Ombla, etc., etc. Therefore, we have arranged other public companies that, as you know, owe nothing. Also, here's what I'm going to mention when we ask what we've done, so just that we're here in public enterprises and that we've only charged INA debt, and we've already done a lot. So when I came to the head of the government that debt was extremely large, we managed to charge it completely, but also introduced a united public procurement, Madam MPs, for the first time in Croatia we have a united public procurement. Thanks to this united public procurement, we have saved more than 70 million kuna in 5 months. Also, we've introduced order into the business of blue diesel. Thanks to the introduction of card business, we saved about 150 million kuna last year alone. However, we have made many important decisions regarding investment. I can tell you about the investments for the water economy that are already running worth more than a billion kuna, but this big investment cycle that started, we put those big investments really on their feet. Many of them are moving, many of them will be at a high stage of realization by the end of March. You will testify, you will be, and as an advocate, I believe in some of them and invited in view of the electoral unit in which you are elected. We've also done a lot on what's called savings, which is called rational behavior. As you know, many decisions have also been made on the use of cards, including additional savings, additional rationalisation. But what seems most important to me is many important projects that need to strengthen the economy. We made decisions that reduced the so-called. The parafiscal givings are, thanks to that, a reduction of 20 to 25%, which makes it quite easier for the businessmen to work, work easier, and breathe easier. So, Madam Representative, here's the time that unfortunately doesn't allow me, blink red, so I'm going to finish, and the rest I'm calling you to my office if you have time to take three, four hours, I'm going to show you everything we've done so far in the shortest lines, and you can get everything written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65971	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65972	First of all, I'm gonna ask for a written answer, and I don't have anything to come to your office and listen to. Secondly, I absolutely don't care, neither I nor the citizens of Croatia, that you ate at that lunch, whether you ate some soup hot, or a language or I don't know any other, I'm just concerned that in that list you forgot to mention something, which is that in this year your premiere chair over 320 thousand we have unemployed, only in the last year 30 thousand jobs have been shut down, over 80,000 workers in this country live the lives of modern slaves. It means they work, and they don't get paid for the work they do. This means that in Croatia, we have hundreds of thousands of pensioners who barely make ends meet. About this, Madam Prime Minister, over the past year, you, your government and your partners who follow you unspeakably have done absolutely nothing. The only jobs you've opened are a few new vice-presidential posts in the government, but I'm afraid neither I nor all the citizens will help anyone in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65973	Order! Mr. Representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65974	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I would like to refer my representative's question to the Minister of Culture, Mr. Jasen Mesic. The question is, Mr. Minister, on the day of the recognition of the Republic of Croatia, 15. On 1st this year, one of the breaking news news in the Croatian flag daily was a proposal for changing the appearance of the Croatian flag. It is a poorly timed proposal that changes to one of the most important state symbols that have not changed in most countries for decades, under the new law on HRT, the government and the HRT will enter into a co-operation agreement. Mr. Minister, will you install in the contract the provisions that public television must not slander, embarrass or attack the most important symbols of Croatian statehood.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65975	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representative, MPs and MPs. I fully share your opinion and dissatisfaction with the contributions that we have had the opportunity to see, I agree that this is a poorly timed moment and I have heard it from a series of our citizens and citizens. You are definitely right when you talk about the national flag symbol, it does not change in most European countries since the second half of the 19th century. It is definitely that the contract between the Croatian and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will organise programmes promoting national interests and patriotism within the meaning of Article 6. HRT law. I would like to remind you that in relation to the protection of certain national values, Article 6 of the HRT Act is prescribed that HRT is obliged to promote national interests, contribute to patriotism, contribute to respect and promote democratic values, as well as national characteristics.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65976	Representative Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65977	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I'm happy with the answer, but I have a note. My note would be to ask mothers and wives of the dead best Croatian sons if they would change the flag for which their sons and husbands gave their lives. Who's looking for a change? This is what those Yugoslavs whose dream of great Serbia and the United Yugoslavia are looking for. I am telling all Croatian defenders that there is no fear of annulment we will ask for the annulment of all emissaries in the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and recognition under duress we want to be free Europeans. We are winners, heads up, neither were we afraid of Milosevic's Serbia nor will we be afraid of Tadic's. The Tihomira Purde case has shown that our government cares for us as well as our diplomacy, Tihomirev's case is a shooting of Serbia in vain, and Croatia's victory of diplomacy, as the European has acknowledged. Thank you, Madam Prime Minister, thank you and your associates, two ministers Jandrokovic and Bošnjakovic who worked on your team. I'm telling the Vukovars, Purda Tihomir is coming home. These days, many are written about Vladimir Seks, some young lions there from Surdulica who were born in the '90s, and their mentor, Savo Strbac, tell them that Vladimir Seks should be held accountable for war crimes, and his biggest crime is that he was one of the founders of the Croatian state, along with Franjo Tudjman and others. Vladimir, be proud, most of us are here with you from the foundation of the Croatian state. You have worked on the well-being of all Croatian citizens, regardless of the color of the skin and nationality, and therefore I convey to you the greetings and support of Croatian defenders and my personal one.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65978	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65979	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam President of the Croatian Government. I will ask my question to Mr. Interior Minister Tomislav Karamark. Ladies and gentlemen, the 92nd Commission for the Determination of War and War Victims has made a decision to set up a Council for the Identification of War Victims of the Communist System abroad. In addition to other victims and forms of suffering then it was found that 73 Croatian people around the world were killed by the infamous UDBE they all have their name, their family and they are all victims of Croatia. Lately, the foreign public is again discussing the serious crimes committed by the communist regime, both in the country and abroad and by the Croatian Committee outside Croatia, and our club is filled with questions from emigration but also from, we can read it in the domestic international press. So the latest news even points to the possibility that UDBA also organised the murder of Swedish Prime Minister Olof Palme to charge Croatia with emigration. Mr. Minister, since you have the authority under Article 42. The Law on the State's Attorney's Office, will you refer Mr. Bajic to the question of whether and where investigations into communist crimes have taken place, which not only compromise the Republic of Croatia on an international basis, but also burden and share Croatian society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65980	Minister Tomislav Karamarko.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65981	Thank you very much, Mr. Assembly Attorney. My answer to your question certainly is yes. I must say that since 2005, the Ministry of the Interior has been working closely with the DORH with the German police and judicial authorities on the lighting of these murders. This cooperation is ongoing at this time and will run until the guilty are punished. I have to inform you of something else, about another segment of other communist mass killings, I have to inform you that this year we will intensify the processing of these cases, we are aware of the terrible fact that the Croatian state with over 900 caves is mostly full of Croatian corpses, for these mass crimes no one has ever answered. I think it's unsustainable, that it's a matter of our conscience, therefore, I announce to you that this year we will intensify our work in this area and seek the engagement of all other entities...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65982	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65983	I thank Mr. Minister and thank the Government I must say that I am very pleased with this answer and I would only conclude in the end, we are all equal before the law, and if there is no statute of limitations for war crimes, nor for crime in privatisation, then there must be no charge for communist crimes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65984	Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65985	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My question goes to Mrs. Kosor. Lately, you've been showing marked nervousness when it comes to Croatian radio-television. And not only do I see them, but good. This Law on cheerleading riots later if you're preparing for it. In a central-information show, it is quite accurate how it is still standing on the government portal, otherwise you removed it when it was published, the link opened the door, so when the visitor's website opens up for them a smiling figure of the one who has appointed you as his successor in the party and in the government. We are now missing the fact that the portal is open during your 2004 presidential campaign for the 2005 election to promote the government's first year results in order to achieve a better result in the elections. You've reacted violently, you've declared it an attack on you and your government. Can you please explain to me whether your editor on HTV is guilty that Ivo Sanader has just placed you on all the functions you are in and that you are declaring that you were his closest associate and best friend? In the end, is the editor of the Dnevnik guilty of not redesigning the government's website in such a way as to at least hide the unpleasant fact for you?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65986	Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65987	Mr. Representative, you're having a hard time watching me if you've concluded that, as you've just said, I've been showing anxiety lately when it comes to HRT. No, I don't. I'm not showing anxiety about anything, let alone a public media that owns the state. So what I'm doing as Prime Minister and what I'm going to do is absolutely, absolutely, that this house is also extremely important where I spent the most beautiful years of my life on the way to being told to stabilise, to really prepare a restructuring plan that we're going to be able to accept as a government. You know there are major and considerable financial difficulties there. But I will also do everything I believe certainly with the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament, that all these procedures that must be done for the appointment of the body, i.e. the selection of the HRT body under the new HRT Act, are carried out in time and that everything there is indeed starting to work in the best order. I do not interfere in any way with editorial policy, nor do I think of any media, let alone HRT and, of course, as a citizen, I have the right to my own opinion, but I also stand up for one of the fundamental principles in the functioning of the media. I would like you to support me in that, which is that in the media, about individuals, about phenomena, about people, about events, about parties, about the economy, etc. It publishes the exclusive truth and I will certainly stand up for it in this position as Prime Minister, no matter what you try to frame yourself in any way. But it will not interfere with me or anywhere else in any field of work, so join us to do everything possible to elect these bodies and to start working people under the Croatian Parliament's Law on HRT. And about my involvement, about my anxiety, let go of my anxiety, I'm quite concerned, as you can see, and I'm looking forward to seeing you, and I'm looking forward to defusing this opportunity what you recently said that no one when I announced the reconstruction that no Mr. Representative wants in the government. As you can see, there are many who want to go to the government in the summer, young and will have great results.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65988	Thank you, Madam President. So you and I both know that I asked you about editorial policy, and you answered me about material financial and other things. So this Dnevnik thing is just one example of your attempt to master the media in the election year. 'Cause, of course, when you go to the editor, he'll watch what he says next time. So, instead of curbing the crisis, you control the freedom of the media, instead of starting the economy, you move a hack on the press. Through your listeners, you have abolished every critical tone on HTV, the "Open", the "Latinica" has been abolished, the "business Club" has been abolished, and we are still waiting for you to cancel Sunday at 2 a.m., although it would be best if you abolished the government's mandate and finally go to elections. I just want to say this thing about cheerleading riots later. You're a good example of cheerleading groups to behave like this in stadiums like you do in the Parliament. and we in Croatia have a local TV Adriatic station and we don't need a national TV Adriatica station. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65989	Mr. Representative Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65990	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Interior, Mr Karamark, and to the position of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the status of foreigners. Namely, a group of 40 returnees to the Municipality of Viskovo in the Primorje-Gorski County sent a petition seeking to resolve its status in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, they lived in the Republic of Croatia for 30 years and more along with their families. They're former housing rights holders, they're still foreign status. In addition, they are beneficiaries of housing, as well as the right to purchase apartments, they as foreigners cannot consume. These cases, except for those signed in the petition, have, unfortunately, much more. So I'm asking my question to Mr. Secretary. Mr. Minister, will you and when will you initiate changes in legislation that would allow people like those I've just told to get their rights that belong to them?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65991	Minister Tomislav Karamarko.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65992	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, we are absolutely aware of the problems that people have in real life, and they have no resolved status of residence or citizenship. Of course, the laws that we are going to settle are the Foreign Law and the Law on Croatian Citizenship, and I must inform you that these laws are actually over. We are waiting for the European Commission's comments, and then we should send it to the procedure, and it must be in the government by March 21st, so these are already very short deadlines. Also on the Law on Croatian Citizenship, he is finished, he is referring to the opinion of relevant authorities these days, and then goes into his normal legislative procedure. Now, I'm sure in about two to three months, we're going to start solving these problems more effectively than you're talking about here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65993	Mr. Representative Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65994	Thank you. In principle, I am pleased with Mr. Secretary's reply, and I am pleased that we have come to the end of our work. However, I cannot be satisfied that we have lost so much time in this problem and that we have brought many people to be in difficult troubles during the lost time. I'm just going to remind you once again that we have updated this problem as a club with a parliamentary issue in the third month of last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65995	Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65996	Madam President, gentlemen of the Ministers. So here I decided to ask Mrs. Prime Ministers a question because I have the opposite opinion and the opposite experience of my colleagues Bauk and Sobol, because we are in the south of Croatia witnessing a major investment wave that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, headed by you Madam President, has started to mark the beginning of works on the construction of the Dubrovnik 2 hydropower plant that goes further through the construction of the Ombla hydropower plant, then the new power grids of the entire Dubrovnik area and two new Srđ and Plat. We are also witnessing a slightly slower extension of the construction of the Peljega Bridge which will finally connect Croatia to one whole. We simply want to believe in this project because we no longer want to cross the border in Neum four times. The works on the highway to Ploč continue and according to the information we expect to complete this stock by 2012. You also know that the position, the geographical position of Dubrovnik, is very specific, that the problem of transport isolation exists for years, and for Dubrovnik citizens return home by plane unfortunately too often depends on the storm. The only way out of this dependence on wind rose is to build a highway to Dubrovnik, so it is understandablely great interest of the citizens of Dubrovnik for a clear answer on the future of this for the south of Croatia's prestigious project along the Pelješki bridge. Contacting citizens can confirm that they are looking forward to every new mile that we approach the rest of Croatia, but what we are all interested in is the highway to Dubrovnik since there have been rumors in both the media and the opposition to stopping work in Ploča, which I do not personally believe. Therefore, I would ask you, Madam President, to answer precisely whether the highway will be built to Dubrovnik as outlined in the spatial plans and the Transport Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which are the plans, which is the dynamics of the works and at which the project documentation is stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65997	Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65998	Thank you very much, Madam Representative. Well, I could actually answer the shortest I can with that question of yours, but let me elaborate it here. I'm sorry there's no Mrs. Sobol now who asked what we were doing. Here I am in my term as Prime Minister, since I haven't had enough time to go on right now, just give me a chance to say something about it. So, yes, it's done intensively, we will certainly, since the crisis has made us kind of stopped and in this big project, we will move on. The most optimistic, best forms or sources of funding are also sought, but we will not work on it, we will not stop, deeply aware of the importance of Dubrovnik's transport connection and the whole of it to the rest of Croatia, and certainly by looking at that whole in the context of the conclusion of the negotiations, in the context of, of course, Schengen, etc., etc. Therefore, here I am announcing that in June, therefore, I hope, I believe, I am sure that this will coincide with the conclusion of Croatia's negotiations for entry into the European Union, we will open a section from Ravca to Vrgorec, but I also believe that it will be a beautiful and large ceremony and that we will be able to look forward there, but also the Metkovic border crossing. However, the construction of the sequel immediately begins, meaning from Vrgorec to Ploč in 2011 which began and we expect that by the end of 2012 this part will be completed. Certainly, I repeat once again, we are working intensively to find a way of funding so for further construction all the way to Dubrovnik, and I believe that it will not be so long before we can say that the whole process is complete, rounded up and that we have a full picture of when this whole job will be completed and that we can indicate what year it is when we can spend the highway or especially you who live there. As much as it will mean for the economy as I don't think I have to mention it, but I'm already telling you that I'm going to be seeing you around St. Vlach, if not that very day, but then where we're going with another important investment in the port of Dubrovnik. So a lot of money is being invested, a lot of work is being done, and we're going to keep going for sure next year. Here's Mrs. Representative and good-bye to Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u65999	Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66000	Of course I'm pleased, I want to thank you, you're often a guest in Dubrovnik and I'm glad you mentioned the port now and the airport and there's a lot to be invested in. Also last year, you didn't remember to say that, last year you opened 100 million kuna papers on a university campus in Dubrovnik, which is also a major investment in the city, since we base Dubrovnik development not only on maritime development, not only on tourism, but on student tourism, or Dubrovnik University City. The government also recently made a decision on the allocation of land to a student home in Dubrovnik, which is an excellent assumption for Dubrovnik's development. And that's why I've been particularly apostrophetic about this highway issue, because this is all remarkable, but only with the continued highway, means highway to the city, and I want to thank you, and I believe that the citizens of the Dubrovnik area will be pleased with your answer to the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66001	Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66002	Dear Vice President, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm referring my question to Mr. Mlakar, the Minister of Management. I've been moved to question media writings these days, so I'm reading here in one of the SDP newspapers... Indictee of land machinations, in another Frane Lozic, the head of the municipality of Milna has sold the camp twice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore that in 2006, by counterfeiting the decision of the municipal council, he sold the land. And half a year before that, he sold the same land to another man and charged about five million kunas and, by the way, half spent on current business. And here are still mentioned some other distortions with spaces, and also with non-transparent, or sales without public procurement. Well, I'm curious to ask the Minister of Administration whether you Mr. Minister have spent or whether you intend to conduct an inspection of the business of this local self-government and the municipality of Milna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66003	Minister of Management Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66004	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. The question you asked the honourable representative is the issue of the work of the local self-government unit Milna which has been problematic for a long time because we had to intervene in the same unit at the end of last year because of the problem with the adoption of the municipal budget. However, as they resolved funding for last year in some way we believed that the situation in the municipality of Milna had stabilized and that it had been found in some way I would have said common language in the work between the municipal chief and the municipal council. However, at the end of last year, more precisely on 17 December, the Ministry of Administration received a request from the municipality of Milna to conduct oversight of the work of the municipal council, and afterwards a statement by the president of the municipal council and a request for administrative oversight of the work of the entire unit of local self-government. We have collected the documentation, we have asked for further evidence precisely because it is suspected of using documents whose credibility is questionable to say so, and whose credibility cannot be determined only by the Ministry of Administration but also by other competent authorities who have also been informed of possible abuses of the position of people working in the municipality of Milna. Therefore, the information that you have been talking about has been forwarded to both the State Attorney's Office and the Ministry of Finance, and I believe that, after the end of the surveillance that will be in place by the end of this month, we will be able to inform those bodies of what we have identified and request any additional control measures from the body that oversees the financial operations of local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66005	Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66006	Thank you, Mr. Minister. It is noted that it is obvious to these some south party, commissioners or pardons not to get me wrong, the southern party, the SDP chiefs are doing well with land. Recently, he sold to Mljet, chief of foreign land and became, promoted by the SDP as head of the county SDP. Now this guy sold the land twice. I hope that my colleague Bauku will not be in danger of becoming president of the county SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66007	Mr. Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66008	I ask my question to Mrs. Kosor. Minister Roncevic has been removed and is being tried for corruption. The Minister of Justice, Lovrin, has been removed. Minister Vukelic has been removed. Minister Primorac has been removed. Minister Shuker has been removed. Customs director and HDZ treasurer Barisic has been removed and is being prosecuted for corruption. Director of the Youtheo Environmental Protection Fund has been detained for corruption. The heads of the State Highways are being prosecuted. Minister Dropulic has been replaced. Minister Biskupić has been removed. Deputy Prime Minister Polancec has been removed and has been jailed for corruption. And finally, HDZ president who brought them all to power Ivo Sanader is in prison in Austria, and in Croatia he is being prosecuted for corruption. The question is: Mrs. Kosor, who has proposed you to be president of the HDZ and Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66009	Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66010	Mr. Vice President, I believe that according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, this issue cannot actually be asked by the Prime Ministers on the current morning because this question does not question anything about what my job is, what I do. So, you don't ask me anything as Prime Minister, who was of course elected to this House, I repeat once again on the basis of the fact that with my mandate I came from the president of the Republic of Croatia with the signatures of the MPs and MPs who supported me, that I received the trust of this House, that you tried to knock me down several times, and all of this was just a failed attempt. And that, in fact, several times and with a request for mistrust to me, and then to the government, but also to not vote for the budget, not by voting for reforms in Croatia, in fact several times, Mr. Representative of the SDP in this House lost. And that's what I have to tell you. And in the end, it is certain to tell you, but to the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to promise that no planting, no hate speech, no speech without arguments will prevent me from working for my people and for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia proudly and highly exalted head. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66011	Thank you. Representative Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66012	Mrs. Kosor, you can pretend you have no idea about anything but we haven't forgotten. For seven years, you've been Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy President of the HDZ and First Associated Eva Sanader. You are responsible for this disaster made by HDZ in Croatia and if you had any political responsibility you would resign and call the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66013	Mr. Representative Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66014	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Croatian Prime Ministers, it is certainly a good and commendable urge for the government to appoint a Deputy Prime Minister in charge of new investments to seek to remove existing barriers which today hold back investment, thus also economic activity and new jobs. But today I would like to talk about the economies that already exist and do business in our country. I will therefore focus on a successful company that is involved in manufacturing, exporting, and also dealing with nautical tourism. It's the technomont company in Pula. Except that this company employs 600 people and feeds 600 families, it has existed for 55 years, but it is the impression that our country is not in the interest of its survival. It's a company that makes almost 80% of its income by export. It's a small shipbuilding company. Why am I saying that? That's what I'm saying because the Technomont marina's decisions by the government and the competent ministry were placed in a completely unequal and discriminatory position against the other marinas in Croatia. I'm only going to take out two figures. The fixed share of the concession fee was increased by 1429%. Yeah, you heard right, 1429%. It is 14 times the compensation of any marina in Croatia. The changing part of the concession fee is undercut, from 2% to 4% of total income. To take it twice, we're kind of used to it, but 14 times as much as the others, it's really unacceptable. Since this company has been trying to solve this problem, with the competent ministry for three years, but unfortunately without success, I am asking you respected presidents, what are you going to do to ensure that this company is in an equal position with the rest of the marinas in the Republic of Croatia, so that we can retain or even increase the number of employees and that this injustice is corrected in one word?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66015	Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66016	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representative. Well, here I am going to do everything in my power, my jurisdiction, above all, to find out all the details. I really don't think you understand that I don't have the details of every company, and if I couldn't have, if you'd asked a perhaps resorient minister a question, maybe you'd have more information. But what I will do certainly convince you to try to read all relevant and relevant data, answer you and by written means, but if you want we can meet again next week, because the Assembly will be sitting, so that we can see what we can do in a specific case, how can we resolve it, if possible anyway, if in any way we are dealing with any kind of discrimination, you know that in the Government we will not allow. So let's go see what's going on, I promise you a quick answer, and I invite you after that, so when I collect all the relevant facts for the conversation to see as far away as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66017	Mr. Representative Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66018	Thank you very much. I accept your initiative, I will provide all the necessary information, although they are already in the competent ministry, but I do not only thank you on my behalf, but precisely those 600 workers who work there.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66019	Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66020	Thank you. Some are already moaning. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The question is for the prime minister. Dear Mrs. Kosor, I won't be long. It's about smurfs. Nothing has been done to save Croatian traffickers, except empty phrases and infertile demagogue support, from which these smugglers have no use, while at the same time working on their silent liquidation. Your government has agreed to ban them from making new deals. I remind you that you, Mrs. Kosor, have, on several occasions, publicly stated that you will support the Split Square and its workers, how will you defend the interests of this smuggler, so here in the highest legislative body of this country, I ask you, are you prepared here in the Parliament to state that you will not personally allow the Split Square to be liquidated, and you guarantee it with your post as prime minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66021	Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66022	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, if you in Split, Mr. Representative, as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, had moved one small finger, that you had helped and that you did not, as you respect me to speak empty phrases, that you did not really say what was not like to people who were doing such a hard and honorable job first, then perhaps we would have been a few millimeters closer to the solution. But you didn't. You're not, but you're serving yourself, and I have to say, unfortunately, you're using a dictionary that's actually just phrases and that only has one goal, and that's a political goal, which is to take people out into the street. And that's what I'm sure won't happen, because the squares know what I do and what the government does in general, what the Ministry of Economy does, what the Minister of Economy does. We've held countless meetings with them, we've made it very clear to them honestly, openly told them all the facts in the case and that and other squires, and we persistently, tirelessly, day and night to resolve this issue. You know very well, but you will not tell the workers in the store, you will not tell in Split that the only solution is to accept the restructuring plan. Where does this plan have to be accepted? He has to be accepted, of course, in Brussels? Why? That is why, Mr. Representative, we want to become a member of the European Union, but we want our people to work, that our people have a job and have a future. It's a hard and bloody job, but you're not helping it, you're getting away with it. However, we will also deal with the smuggling business, with shipyards, Mr. MP, waiting for the commission to approve the restructuring plan, the same moment in the Split smuggling, Mr. Representative, to begin the contracting of ships. It's what workers know, it's what workers respect, workers respect both honesty and dedicated work, but it's also the work of people who won't lie, who won't hide the truth for a handful of cheap political points and bring it to ruin. I am sure that the shipyards in Split have a very good future, but as a country that wants to become a 28th member of the European Union, we need to respect some rules, but without that you know well, you should know that the budget situation is absolutely not such that we can maintain this situation in the long term. And that's what I said at a meeting with members of the union, with workers from Split's bootleggers. Therefore, I am asking your question whether I am ready for anything, which has been set up as if we were in court, I am answering this not a court, this is Parliament, and I can here, since I am holding accounts for the Croatian Parliament to say: yes, the Government will close Chapter 8, close Chapter 23, close the negotiations and sign the accession treaty to become the 28th member of the European Union. However you object, because you were the one who did not want to support the agreement with Slovenia absolutely at first, the resolution of the border issue, which was ultimately decisive in order to start negotiations from a dead end. Your Euroscepticism is allowed to you, and let us finish the job and that people in both Split and 3rd May in Rijeka and elsewhere have a job and perspective. Empty words and flossulas don't make you live.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66023	Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66024	Give me these minutes that take away this crowd. Mrs. Kosor, you mean to close the chapters by closing the squares. You will have workers on your back, Mrs. Kosor, this was an encyclopaedia of phrases that you brought out here in the Croatian Parliament, it reminds me... Don't turn it off, behave, I know it's hard for you. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] You remind me incredibly of your... An escape mentor who used to say the same thing when I asked him for a possible crime in the mall with a much bigger crime to end the 40,000 fates that live off the smuggling than to steal $5 million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mrs. Kosor, do you think you've convinced anyone that you haven't answered a single question, and I can tell you that it's your fault that nothing has been done in the last seven years to restructure Croatian smugglers. And by doing so, you've contributed that those at the small door might be liquidated. What's going to go to your account, not yours?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66025	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66026	I'm not the Prime Minister, you're the Prime Minister. You've talked about your most beautiful years before, maybe this will be
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66027	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Dinko Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66028	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I would like to refer the question to the Prime Minister. Dear Madam Prime Minister, the indictments against Croatian defender Tihomir Purda and other Croatian defenders have sparked a justified indignation of most Croatian citizens in recent weeks. Special dissuasion prompted statements issued two weeks ago by Ms. Snezana Malovic, justice minister of the Republic of Serbia, which means the state that was in '91. The year has been an aggression against Croatia, as well as accusations that could be heard and read in the statements of representatives of certain international and domestic institutions. We have had the opportunity to hear that Croatian defenders are being persecuted for acts that the Serbian prosecution treats as an incentive to armed rebellion and secession of the SFRY and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. One of the worst claims that further explains these Serbian thesis is this next content – since at the time Croatia was still in the form of the SFRY because constitutional and legal ties with the SFRY were broken only on 8 October '91. Under the then positive legal regulations, Croatia could not even legally form its own Armed Forces. In such a situation at the end of the 1990s, and under the leadership of the HDZ party, there was the arming and organisation of the first Croatian illegal forces, and during '91. until the armed clashes of the newly formed Croatian troops with the paramilitary Armed Forces of the rebel Serbs. And until the conflict of these illegal Croatian troops with then only the regular JNA military units. In view of the lack of a clear and unambiguous reaction by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the question to you, Madam Prime Minister, is: "What is your precise position as Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia as well as as as as the president of the HDZ on the above-mentioned claims which are on the Serbian side the legal basis for the indictments and persecution of Croatian defenders from the time before October 8, 1991, and tomorrow perhaps against the members of the HDZ then? Did Serbia commit aggression in Croatia in '91? Or was there a civil war being waged here as they claim? Were the ZNG and Croatian troops for you illegal troops and were Croatian volunteers from the first days of the Homeland War in '91. The organizers of the armed rebellion against the SFRY or the heroes of the defence of the Republic of Croatia?" I ask for a clear and unequivocal answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66029	Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66030	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, I'm surprised you're asking me a question that I am clearly and unequivocally showing myself on this issue of yours whether we were the victim of aggression or the civil war was being waged here. You know well that I've been a Croatian defense minister for many years. If anyone has repeated it countless times, it's me. And from that position, but before and as a representative twice in the Croatian Parliament when I struggled to amend the provisions of the unfair Law on the rights of Croatian defenders between 2000 and 2003, which reduced the rights of Croatian defenders etc., etc. Therefore, of course, Croatia was the victim of a bloody aggression that was certainly the result of the great Serbian ideology and the large-serb aggression it naturally produced, born Slobodan Milosevic. And that is certainly a historical fact which certainly, and I agree with you there should be repeated, that perhaps someone would not forget. However, I think that... We do it both clearly and unequivocally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian defenders are certainly the most responsible for free and European Croatia and if there were no Croatian defenders, ladies and gentlemen and Mr. MP, I believe that we agree, we would not be members of NATO's alliance today, nor would we negotiate to join the EU because Croatian free and European and democratic ones would be gone. Therefore, we are really trying to do everything and in this truly sensitive moment for the Croatian defenders we understand, we understand their anxiety for us and for me, since you ask me, it is particularly important that in the case of Mr Purda that Croatian institutions have done their job in the sense that they have conducted very serious talks with witnesses and that it is clearly established and that this is the position of the Croatian institutions of the judicial institutions that Mr Purda is not guilty, so that he is innocent. And on this basis, I really expect that all the institutions, primarily our Ministry of Justice, will, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, but also I repeat, do everything possible for Mr. Purda to come home and hug his children as soon as possible. That's what we want, what we're working on and what we're trying to do. Certainly, I, I ask you here, that we should have a minimum of trust in our institutions, in our Ministry of Justice, in a minister of justice who really works day and night to solve this case and we will continue to do everything, but also for the future, not only on these specific issues that are already related to certain people, but I am sure on the trail of this mixed committee to do indeed everything so that these cases do not happen because what is based on work and government and Parliament is to ensure the dignity of Croatian defenders, those who have defended and freed Croatia. It's our job, not just these generations of politicians, but those who come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66031	Mr. Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66032	I thank Madam Prime Minister, I didn't accidentally ask the question. I am most pleased with the answer, but this satisfaction is based on the fact that here in front of the entire Croatian public you have just denied not only the findings on which the charges of the Serbian prosecution are based, but even worse findings, you have just denied your answers to the findings on which your indictments and convictions in the proceedings against Croatian defenders are based by representatives of the Croatian Prosecutors' Office and the Croatian System. In fact, it is not only Minister Schuker who does not read the documents but turns out that neither did you, the allegations I just quoted to you were not statements by the Serbian representative, but the findings that the Zagreb County Court stated on page 42 of the ruling to the Croatian General Glavas, which was confirmed by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. And it is good that you denied these findings, as they are recognised, would mean to recognise the futility and decision of the Croatian Parliament on 25 June 91st, and the Constitutional Decisions and Declaration of Declaration of Declaration of Independence and Sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. I am pleased that these statements of yours have put you aside from us in the HDSSB which we have been claiming from the beginning that the verdict of Glavas cannot and must not be recognised, and after such an answer it will be interesting to see what decision the Constitutional Court will make in connection with the lawsuit and the President and his lawyers, whether the Constitutional Court will indeed be independent and do what its basic tasks are. It protects the Constitution and the constitutional legal foundations of the Republic of Croatia, or it will also be in the service of politics and dealings with political inexperiences that has happened to Glavas in previous judgments. Given the importance of Madam President of this response for the future foundation of Croatian statehood in order to be fully satisfied with your answer, please provide this answer in writing as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66033	Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66034	A question for Madam Prime Minister Kosor. Compared to current oil barrel prices, retail oil derivatives prices in the Republic of Croatia are very high and comparable to those in 2008 when the world market cost a barrel of oil 130 dollars and is now below $100. My question is Madam President, do you know how much a liter of Eurosuper gas costs in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66035	Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66036	Mr. Representative, as you know in your current position, this job, I don't buy gas myself, and it's a known fact, I don't buy Eurodiesel or anything else, so I know what you want to ask, so I'm going to answer that. We will indeed do everything, but certainly not affecting those who have the right to make their own decisions, so that we do everything possible to ensure that the standard of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia does not deteriorate. TO collect fuel, to collect eurodiesell's gasoline is not such that it does not cause any fanfare of prices, a rise in prices that would be uncontrollable. Here, you have absolutely my promise that we will do so and in questioning those possibilities that the Government has yet to discuss, but it will certainly come on the agenda in some period, related to excise duties and other instruments. But I repeat, we haven't talked about it at the moment, and I answer what you haven't asked, but it can be read on the issues, which some media have yesterday, about the fact that INA hasn't made a decision on the collection, and some others have, that we haven't affected the decision, that they're making their business decisions on their own, but it's certainly good and important that we've recently chosen a new supervisory board, people who are absolutely professional in that sense and who will then report to the government what's happening right now, what's going on in two or three months, and maybe propose some new steps to the government. Here's 9.31 that's the answer at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66037	Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66038	Madam President, ever since you became Prime Minister, gasoline has been collected from less than 7.5 kuna here at $9.31. Or Eurosuper 98 to 9.7 kuna. As regards this year's oil production, it should be said that the world market price for crude oil has fallen, and that this has been reflected in Croatia as an addition. I'm afraid this is about the beginnings of a break in energy policy, because already early this year, Croatia has hit a wave of gatherings with a trend in further growth. Your Minister, Mr. Popioac, said that the state can reduce the price of gasoline but that intervention is not yet needed. What kind of price should it be to start something up? The use of cars and the economy and ordinary citizens becomes a luxury but you have already said that in this function it is none of your business because you are driven by two blinded BMWs at the expense of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66039	Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66040	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will refer my question to the Minister of Justice Mr. Bosnjakovic. Mr Minister, it is known that the 2009 State Audit in its 2009 report in Sisak-Moslavina County pointed to a number of irregularities in the use of official vehicles, mobile phones, in the use and signing of different operating contracts for certain jobs for which there are no reports and in the use of the team. It is also known to the public that it is one of the most destructive SDP-led and HSP-led counties in which 14 advisers are paid, but it is also known from the State Audit findings that 279 thousand were paid for 6 contracts for the work on advisory jobs. It would have been no wonder if the audit had not shown that these same jobs could be done in the regular affairs of the county or that they were executed by these well-paid 14 advisers who receive every month 5 thousand kuna for their work or labour. Also, political corruption is evident from the State Audit findings in the fact that some of the elected council members of 13 received 371 thousand for less than 5 months of their work, so none of the less than 20 thousand kuna. It's all in the 2009 State Audit. Please, Mr. Minister, can you tell me, do you have any knowledge of any investigations involving these findings in the State Audit for Sisak-Moslavina County?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66041	Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66042	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say immediately as regards the investigation and the proceedings concerning the prosecution of any perpetrators of criminal offences, that under our constitution jurisdiction is shared by the State's Attorney's office. As far as your question is concerned, I will, within the powers I have and request a report from our state attorney to see if there is something going on in this particular report of the State Audit, of course I will inform you about it. State audit reports are extremely important documents. These reports often indicate that something is happening somewhere. It may actually be some kind of impasse to the State's Attorney's office to launch certain reconnaissance operations, and after reconnaissance operations, if there are reasonable doubts that other actions are being initiated. I, as Minister of Justice, can say about the State Attorney's Office, have provided all the conditions for work. In the budget for this year we have even more resources than it was last year. So we also have for staffing the State's Attorney's Office and all other conditions to have more quality than they've ever had before. These State Audit reports are extremely important, because as you know certain units of local self-government, regional and regional self-government come into a state of business that their accounts are blocked and then the Croatian government must also provide funds for wages, it must provide funds for their functioning. For example, the town of Zlatar where something like this happened, and the Croatian government, in order for employees in Zlataru to get paid, must allocate funds for such things. Madam MPs, I will request a report within my authority and I will inform you of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66043	Representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66044	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I believe we will get your report because of all those who ask that question both in Sisak-Moslavina County and from the media who have also warned about these irregularities. But I believe that Mr Jovanovic, now out, I am sorry that he came out as president of the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, too, will do everything to clear up some problems in his party, no matter how stiff I will say from what SDP President Milanovic said one day in one of his performances that he would not deal with the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66045	Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66046	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. I ask my question to the vice-president of the Republic of Croatia and to the Minister of Regional Development, Mr Bozidar Pankretić. Mr Pankretić, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given guarantees to Croatian waters for an additional debt of more than one billion kunas, i.e. one billion kuna and 35 million kuna, in order to run an investment cycle in the power of the municipal economy. We know that there is a list of facilities and priorities that have about 300 projects in local self-government units across the Republic of Croatia. We also know that part of this process has been launched in the past 2010 and that part of this investment cycle in the municipal economy has already begun in some ways. What interests all of us here and the wider Croatian public, or all those living in these units of local self-government, is precisely the question of when this entire investment wave will be launched. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66047	Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66048	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, I thank you for asking the question because if you need to remove some issues that appear in public, and I will be very specific in this section. I think that one big contribution from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which guaranteed the Croatian waters, is that I would say directly contribute to the economic recovery, because if we all know only with the investments we can get out of the crisis faster. What is also very important here to point out that the Government is together with the Ministry but also with Croatian Waters at its session in November also very clearly defined 305 projects transparently published on its websites and that these are projects that move towards realisation. It may be important to point out that in obtaining the means of credit received by Croatian waters, extremely favourable conditions have been met, because today, on the financial market, to meet the conditions of an interest rate of 4.6% can only be commended to the public enterprise, but of course to the Croatian government, which has guaranteed the whole job. I stress that with this loan made by Croatian waters the total value of all 305 projects is 2 billion 400 million kuna. In particular, this relates to 201 projects related to sewers and purifiers, then 89 projects relating to the water supply sector and 15 projects relating to flood defence buildings. What you asked me very specifically will answer that investment cycle has begun. In 2010, we already achieved and started 68 projects concrete work and already invested in a certain way from this total figure 130 million kuna. According to Croatian Waters, the full work on the rest of the projects is now competitions, the job is now taking place, will be completed by the end of March and it will all be started somewhere in early April. It may be good to point out that the effects of this investment cycle are over 30 cleansing devices, 460km of public sewage canals, 10 new water supplies, 500km of highway and water supply pipelines, with the possibility of joining more than 50 thousand new connections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66049	Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66050	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I can say that I am satisfied with this response, but it will be much more important that this year, so through the start all projects are satisfied and all those in local self-government units where these projects will take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66051	Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66052	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My question was addressed to the Minister of Interior Mr Tomislav Karamark. The question refers to a graduate architect who presents himself as an economist, and is known for driving fast and slow to invest. So that's Mr. Chacic. counterpart Lovrin asked a question in the same case, but the issue continues in the form of a discussion in the media, so I will complement the issue. Mr. Cacic bought the Green Punta village in Kukljica on the island of Ugljan, of course he bought it in 2001 when he was a member of the left coalition, so the minister and when he had privileged information, which is of course unfair. Then, over the past nine years, he left the village in the following way, didn't invest anything, fired 220 employees, abolished a thousand tourist beds and thus devastated and turned it into a carnage and a rust settlement that fed half the island. On the question of colleague Lovrin why he did it and whether it was a criminal act of privatisation he answered in public: I could not invest because the municipality did not bring local spatial plans. Of course, we headed immediately to the municipality with the intention of criticizing the head of the municipality and establishing the following. In 2007, the HDZ took over the municipality, it faces a catastrophic situation, one of which is characterized by the lack of plans because before that it was the HNS, so they deliberately did not bring plans so that Cacic would not have to invest, recover the companies. The HDZ mayor has adopted plans within a record period of three months, so the plans have been in place since 2007, which means four years old, and the devastation of Cacic continues, and the reasons lie facelessly. My question is, Mr. Minister, will you initiate an examination of this privatisation since the amendments to the Constitution confirm that crime in conversion do not go out of date. This is crime, a classic example of crime committed on the burden of employees and on the burden of the entire local community.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66053	Minister Tomislav Karamarko.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66054	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Very briefly, you yourself said that a criminal offence begins... The privatisations do not go out of date, so it is clear that we will start carrying out criminal research in the competent state's attorney's office in the case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66055	Representative Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66056	Thank you very much. I am pleased with this answer because the Croatian Democratic Community is precisely why it has proposed amendments to the Constitution, so that such usurpers of the privatisation process to the burden of employees finally come to where they belong.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66057	Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66058	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, Minister and Minister. Minister Bošnjakovic, I will refer this question to you. Namely, on January 8, SDP coalition partner and HNS chief Mr. Cacic, headlessly driving a Budapest highway, of course protected by his big, huge car, caused unfortunately a serious car accident, and unfortunately that accident caused the death of two people who were here on their accident in one ordinary small Škoda. At all costs, this same Mr. Cacic tried to avoid responsibility and how. Only a few days later, he invited people to come and feel compassion for them, and at the same time after 10 days he sent his lawyers to say an apology instead. Of course, he tried to ease the guilt that he was driving in slower lanes, that it was a slippery road, a thick fog, but all these claims fell into the water after the Hungarian highways sent video surveillance. And as we continue to defend ourselves and who and then enter the scene of the moral verticals of SDP, the president of SDP and the coalition of Mr. Milanovic happily located in a restaurant says: Mr. Cacic has absolutely no guilt, so the people in this car are guilty, they were not tied up. After that, he must have raised a glass... And I said I was smart, and I'm still gonna defend myself against responsibility because he and the coalition partners don't have responsibility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Minister, I'm not going to ask you equally why the media isn't four, I mean even five days of writing nothing about it, only after the election. Is for a while Mr. Cacic calling the election, lobbying for himself, it's strange, and then leaving Mr. Cacic with Mr. Journalist for that lunch. Now, the question is this, mine concerns the request of the City Prosecutor's Office in Kaposvar, which sent to our Ministry of Justice a request for Mr Cacic's hearing on August 16th. The justice ministry said the investigation hearing was called November 25th, but Cacic did not respond. Dr. Zoltan Gao says the indictment has not yet been filed because all requested documentation has not arrived from Croatia. We'll be patient for a while. But if nothing changes after that, we will begin to doubt that something is being covered up. The above all mentions even points to that. Mr. Minister, what is this about? Could the hearing have been held in secret? And whether it might have any kind of negative connotation when we finish negotiations with, when we enter the European Union. Thank you for your response in advance on behalf of the Hungarian public, victims, of course the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66059	Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66060	Dear Madam MPs, in this case our courts, the State's Attorney's Office, the Department of Justice has no direct or direct jurisdiction. We here act solely on the principles of international legal aid. So when we're asked to act from another country. In this case, we are asked to hold a hearing before our court, to carry out evidence by giving Mr. Cacic's testimony, and we have indeed received this case as you said in August. Our competent County Court has appointed a hearing for November, Mr. Cacic's request has been postponed so that his defender may be present. And that hearing was held in December this year. We as the Ministry of Justice as soon as we received the minutes from that hearing through the Institute of International Legal Assistance to the competent authorities in Hungary have forwarded the minutes. As far as the release of any data is concerned, the investigation is a secret, so nothing can be conveyed in public what was said in that procedure before our County Court. And therefore, we as a ministry are acting without delay in all requests for international legal aid, so that there is no speech or that anything on our part wants to be covered up, and in particular that one such item could endanger Chapter 23, because we have indeed done in Chapter 23 a whole series of reforms that I think are recognized and which something like this could not compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66061	Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66062	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Thank you for your answer. It's not true what you're saying. I say there's a God too.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66063	Mr. Agent Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66064	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister and Minister, honourable MPs. I would like to refer my question to Mr. Justice Minister Drazen Bošnjakovic, and I would like to encourage the announcement that we will soon have a proposal for a new Law on Conflict of Interest. In fact, I was here in the Assembly asking questions about Rijeka markets. My colleagues also asked a question about the price of swimming pools in Rijeka, the price of the sports hall, and also the audit report. We know that the audit finding when it is brought for one city or municipality can either be conditional, unconditional or not accepted. We are witnessing that in the city of Rijeka this finding has shown an untransparent spending of funds and that is why it is conditional. But it's not about 1400 kuna, it's about 140 million kuna. And I was encouraged by this question and here, not long, by the speech of our colleague Jovanovic, who pointed out that in one period, so as an employee of the pharmaceutical company, he made a very successful profit and acquired a solid asset. However, it would have been all right if he had not been a member of the KBC Rijeka Governance Council at the time. So it throws one shadow at that success to be a member of the KBC and also trade, so with the hospital. Therefore, I am encouraged by these many questions which we councilors, MPs from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, as well as council members of the City Council of Rijeka, so here we have asked. So, I'm asking if it will and will be possible, and I hope it will. So, in this bill of law to be, to prevent someone who has participated in such actions from giving us uninterrupted lessons, and very sharply to HDZ, the government that is very successful in fighting corruption, and we have heard that the first question today was for various forms of corruption whether it will be possible for persons who have, therefore, such actions behind them and, at the high functions of the deputy mayor or being a member of that council to not be able to act such a function and to share such lessons here and so harsh statements without arguments, and we could say themselves not quite a clean cheek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66065	Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66066	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, whether there are elements of conflict of interest in some behaviour, whether in any particular behaviour it has come to the conclusion that the private interest has won the public interest on this matter can only be decided by the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests in a specific case following a specific application. And that's possible under the current law that's in force. The conflicts of interest and the fight against conflicts of interest is a relatively new institute that has lived more intensely with us since 2004 and beyond. We've changed the law more than once. The last changes were in the seventh month and it is clear that we want to reach the highest standards. Because in the European Union, there are no solutions that are valid in all countries. Practice is different. And to encourage the desire to settle this issue at the highest level, to implement the best experiences in our law, we have come up with a whole new Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. The law is in the government's procedure, there's coordination going on, and it's going to be here very soon, and you'll be able to discuss it too. So here's when the law comes you'll also be able to participate in it and finally this House is the only one in charge of bringing it in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66067	Mr. Agent Anton Mance.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66068	So I thank you for your response and I believe that you will install these elements so that someone who is as high as the chairman of the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the Corruption Strategy. And if there are any elements and we can think about a conflict of interest that cannot act like such a function, then we can use it just for the politics of our party by attacking others and not respecting the fact that everyone in our country is possible to be untouchable and that the government is leading such a policy and that it has such significant results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66069	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66070	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Prime Minister. Please, I'll ask you about one thing, I'd say about one of the greatest injustices that has happened to our defender, Mr. Purda. The government has now received a request from Serbia for the extradition of our defender, Mr Purda, back in 2007, as far as 2007. Why didn't you, Madam Prime Minister, follow the explicit provision of Article 35? The law on international legal aid in criminal matters, which obliges the Government to reject the proposal, or the request of a foreign state, because it is a Croatian citizen?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66071	Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66072	Mr. Vice President, Madam Representative. I'm not aware that the government, as you say, has received such a request. I'm recently familiar with the fact about so-called. Interpol's red warrant, and I have my own opinion on it, but I certainly tried to find out as much about what Interpol's red warrant means, who can talk about it publicly, who can't, etc., etc. What is certainly most important now is that the state institutions in the Republic of Croatia, therefore the State Attorney's Office, but others have questioned witnesses in the case of Mr Purda, that it is very clear that he is not guilty of this crime, a serious crime which he is charged with, that his recognition is in that case, so what they are being coerced into force, therefore under inhuman conditions at the time of stay in the Serbian camp and that he is, and that we have talked about something and his friends and that according to the position of both the government and other institutions, Mr Purda is innocent. We expect that it will continue to work and in cooperation with the two ministries, means both ours and the Republic of Serbia, and that this case will end as we all expect, I believe you, too, that Mr. Purda will return home and return to Vukovar. Any politicizing about both this and other cases, politicizing the status of Croatian defenders would not be good, it is not desirable and I think that we must really all stick to both the Constitution and the law, and in this sense work. This applies to the government, but this also applies to representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66073	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66074	Although I agree with everything you've said, let's start from the very beginning how it happened. So you were supposed to, and then you were still the secretary of defense, to follow an explicit provision and to reject such demands. It is an international treaty that binds you. That's what our Constitution and the law oblige you to do. Practically by your inaction you have delivered this man, you have delivered our defender. The policy of this government cannot be the ignoring of the law, because you have shown this not only that you do not respect, that you are a government that does not respect Croatian laws, but that you have also shown that you are a power that has no soul, and that towards those who have given you everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66075	Madam Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66076	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister and Minister. I refer my question to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Tomislav Karamark. It is known that several years ago, marketing in Pica Vrbovec was performed by Imelda Public d.o.o. Whose owner was Mr. Ivan Racan, son of the late Ivica Racan. We heard about it in the media when there was a crime in Pica Vrbovac. Several years after that, the company moved on behalf of Maxima Communications, and after the firm Imelda Public, and soon in the election campaign, it gives 170 thousand to Mr. Josipovic, Ivo Josipovic. I ask you, Mr. Minister, do you know if Imelda Public company, so the company that preceded Maxime Communications has done business other than Pica Vrbovac and some other companies at the time of the SDP, and have certain investigations been drawn in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66077	Minister Tomislav Karamarko.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66078	Thank you very much. Dear Madam MPs, I must say that the Ministry of the Interior knows nothing about the business of these companies that you have listed, nor do we have information on the possible conduct of any criminal offence, nor do we have an adequate application in that regard. There's no such thing as an investigation or any kind of investigation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66079	I come from another constituency, and that's what you were talking about. It's also another piece of evidence that corruption affects everything... and social, and economic and political, and in accordance with what we all represent zero tolerance, I don't think there will be any future cases, or individuals who will be untouchable. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66080	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66081	Here's my representative's question, I refer to the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr. Djury Popioč. In the Vecernji list of 8 January this year, undemanded claims on privatisation, the controversial privatisation of Coninga, were published. Some, it was such that even some called it bizarre, which is fine, and for many reasons. Namely, I will quote some things from these days published by Krešimir Kovač's book "The Rise of Radiir Cacic in the 1990s", which says that as Director Cacic caused a 324 million kuna bankruptcy, including never paid debt to the state of the 51 million kuna, led the privatisation of Coning, companies worth more than 16 million kunas, marks, which was sold for invaluable, malversions transferred property from the company to the company to avoid hundreds of millions of kuna debts. Namely, the company is privatised according to claims for one quarter of the value. Here you should not forget again one undetermined claim that Coning had borrowed before privatisation... 10 million marks that did not enter the privatisation mass, but were returned after the privatisation of Cacic. [[You don't understand.]] So the story has a lot, so the question is, my question is: Mr. Minister future, we heard a colleague of Hebrang just before, who said that the HDZ government has brought constitutional change so that privatisation doesn't go out of date, will you do something about the big economic crime you've done?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66082	The Minister of Drinks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66083	Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, it seems to me that in relation to what you said and what you said, it seems we have another candidate for a colleague of Karamark's. So, what we were able to briefly just read from these allegations made by "The Evening List" and what I had opportunity to briefly only the authority to look at the course of privatisation, just for a moment to remind. So, the Agency for Reconstruction and Development is a solution, so it was the predecessor of the Privatisation Fund, giving consent to the social company Coning Holding d.d. Varazdin to carry out the conversion. Therefore, consent by establishing the social capital of 9 million 124 thousand marks. And what you're saying back then is that the institution that was in charge of the value assessment determined the value of 16 million marks and something that this agency didn't appreciate at that time. But the whole thing according to this data, it's all, of course, determined and recorded in... the documentation, the shares of the companies were sold in the conversion process and the total amount of 4 million and 676 thousand marks were paid after the calculation of these discounts on the working time and discount on the economic payment to the fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what, then, did the trust that had both the role and the powers of supervision do? In the conversion control process, the Fund annulled the said conversion and for the reason that it found that the purchase of shares amounting to 91.14% of the said amount was unlawfully financed by the company itself and that only 8.86% was legally financed by shareholders' funds. However, in the meantime, certain changes in the law occurred and on 21 July 2000, so the fund annuls its decision to annul and the entire state of ownership of the shares has been returned to the previous one. So, those who acquired it further had a further hold. The financial police also found irregularities in the record. Therefore, the lack of balance, the payment of shares from the company’s own funds, the need for additional control of periodic accounts, etc., etc. The State Audit Office concluded by the report that the conversion of undertakings was not fully carried out and in accordance with the law for the reason that the assessment of the value of social capital was carried out by a dynamic method on the basis of the incorrect financial reports. And what is most recent is therefore in the Privatisation Fund there is a procedure for unassembled real estate in Pag that was not part of the estimated assets when privatisation was made. So this all suggests that this is indeed one of the potential candidates to start dealing with him and colleague Karamarko, and, of course, according to what the Constitution has already said, that conversion crime does not go out of date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66084	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66085	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for the abundance of information. Here, it may be noted that Cacic became the owner of the Coning Holding company 2 months after becoming a minister. Why? So that this company would make several new companies and give them jobs for about 400 million kunas of many controversial jobs with many annexes, which unfortunately the State's Attorney's office did not read, in order to keep 56 out of debt to me at the Zadar Technical School, the rest of it remained to the Ministry of Education, therefore of enormous debts that would be difficult to settle. Not to say that 70 companies from Israel have long waited for Cacic to pay back their debts. So when former Minister Radimir Cacic says he's throwing dust in our eyes, believe me, he's been throwing dust in our eyes for a long time. Every time he mentions the word "honest." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66086	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66087	Your Honor, I'd like to ask the Prime Minister a question. Respected Prime Ministers met with a pre-election campaign these days, the media announced the activities of the two greats of the "Kukuriku coalition" who are pretenders, one of them in the prime minister's post, while the other is his assistant. In their activity, they visited a journalist's apartment, or rather a deputy editor-in-chief of a daily newspaper, and there, along with the selected wines, along with the menu, they were the fete of tuna bellies, then carpaccio from pineapple, sent another message to the citizens that they would be better off when they came to power. Most likely, they thought they'd have it the way they did with that reporter. The promises were not saved as they were not saved on wine or on food. But those promises reminded me of those pre-election promises from 2000 when everything was promised, unfortunately we had the opportunity to make sure that it was realized. When, I believe that since the hungry sitom doesn't believe it, even the citizens won't fall for these promises from our champions of these "Kukuriku coalition". On this occasion, I must also say, their mouths were full of fish bellies and carpaccia, so they didn't look back so often on the problems of poor workers, pensioners, like they do here, shed tears and care about them while they're being filmed by cameras. But my question would be whether you as Prime Minister, so I can also say as president of the largest party in Croatia you see the justified haughtiness of these two as they say "Kukurika" or some say "Kukulakulacija" towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia while you and your government fight and advocate to protect the social and labour rights of citizens, workers and pensioners and we know that in the time of the major economic crisis, as well as financial turbulence in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66088	Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66089	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, I believe that you understand that as Prime Ministers, I find it difficult to comment on the performances of some politicians in Croatia in some media and especially the one you are talking about, so it was this three-way interview, because I think it is primarily my role to assess who in Croatia helps not only the Government, the government is the most responsible, but also locally to solve the problems in the country, these big ones that we are both concerned about and busy with. So, I would not comment on the fact that these gentlemen, as you point out, are eating because it depends, of course, on how much anyone can pay, how much they can afford, and it's not really my job. However, what I have read, as I have also read this interview, which has concerned me, is the fact that it is still about respected opposition politicians, which is actually about the fundamental problems we are struggling with from fighting corruption, to getting out of the crisis, about the completion of negotiations, about all the jobs that need to be done in the conclusion of the negotiations, about the problems in the shipbuilding sector, how to help solve the problems, how to help accept the restructuring plan, one another, the third, other shipyards. How and what to do in solving the problem of unemployment. We know that these people promised 200 thousand jobs at the time of the 2000 campaign and then in 2003 we had 330,000 unemployed, in any case a major deficit and many other problems. The fact that, as you know well at the time, collective agreements were broken, that many, thousands and thousands of civil servants and deputies sued the state on the grounds that after that the state budget had to pay about 6 billion kuna in the name of the lawsuits and Croatian defenders and officials and all those who work in public services. I was more intrigued by the fact that these key issues of Croatian today but also by Croatian tomorrow, there was no such conversation. However, it reminded me of the fact that Mr Milanovic publicly said that he knew nothing about the economy but that he was not interested in the economy. I think it's a matter of decision by these leaders of these parties, that in this way they promote their electoral programme, as far as we are concerned, we are both in the government and in the ruling coalition determined to work, this is the beginning of the year, it will be electoral, at the very end but we must not lose any seconds at lunches or dinners, but we must be committed to work and I and this opportunity Mr. MP use to invite everyone to join in the work, to change our relationship to work in many segments, because for me it's not acceptable for the government to work, it's not fair that the government is working on projects and it's not fair, I think it's only fair to do well, at all times the government is working, that it's not fair and it's not fair to represent investment projects, which we've ever been able to figure out how many people in the past 30 years, and it's been easy to find out how many people in the past 30 years. Many citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately, can't afford to do this their whole life, not one lunch, not one dinner at an exclusive restaurant. But I'm saying, as I've started to talk about tastes, it's not a debate, but what I want to say at the very end, anyone who thinks about the position of a minister in the government or the Prime Minister must know that this is a difficult job, this is not a privilege, this is a hard job, it's not a chair, it's work day and night, it's really a job that spends all its strength, but despite that, those who accept it need to work out of all their strength and not just worry about their own body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66090	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66091	Thank you very much, I'm pleased with your answer, I'm even satisfied with your correctness towards them, which I'm sure they wouldn't be towards you then. But when you invite them to work, try to invite them to tunas, then they might respond because they won't respond, you can see that they don't come here either, where they'll work more specifically then. I must say that while their mouths were full of fish bellies, as well as these people, from the coalition doll, I am glad and proud of both the government and you, that at no time in this difficult financial situation, you have not questioned the financial turbulence in Croatia either pensions or salaries, or pensioners or workers, and therefore thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66092	Ms. Representative Susana Bilic-Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66093	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, Madam Minister, Mr. Minister. I'm referring the question to the Minister of Interior, Mr Tomislav Karamark. Mr. Ministers is known that representatives of Germany's Daimler benz before the US Investigation Commission admitted that in 2003 the ministers of the then government paid a commission of nearly 5m euros, with such a claim they cast doubt on the contract that the then government, headed by the Social Democratic Party, concluded in October 2003 on the purchase of 210 fire trucks. It is therefore a suspicion of corruption at the highest state level and mentions the names of some of the then ministers today, our fellow MPs. Mr. Minister, my question is very brief and specific. Have you received a request to conduct investigations in this case and are you aware of when the public will find out about the actors of this affair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66094	Minister Tomislav Karamarko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66095	Thank you very much, dear Madam MPs, the investigations are already under way, you know that my options for commenting on USKOK's items are very narrow, I simply can't comment, but there is one good news that I can publish. Last week we received a large set of documents from America that I believe will give us some of the requested answers, about 30,000 documents, hence, they are now being worked intensively in both the state's attorney's office and the police department. Therefore, the investigations are ongoing, I believe they will have good results.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66096	Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66097	Mr. Minister, I am pleased with your answer, because from your brief and core response it is clear to me that you have a lot of work to do and therefore I just want to point out that too long has been the cover-up of social democratic leaders' affairs because Daimler benz is not the only affair, which is with the case of "The Market" where the tilting trains and the rest are, but it is certain that Daimler benz is one of the most dangerous ones for them. And finally, the Croatian public, therefore, have the right to know who took almost 5m euros. Otherwise, I wish you a lot of success to you, and especially the Prime Ministers of the Government, Mrs. Kosor, in the fight against corruption in this country at all levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66098	Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66099	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'm referring my question to the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. One of the HUP leaders said that this year we can expect only a continuation of agony if the government does not urgently change the existing model of the economy if we do not turn to exports and production. That's what you're talking about, but the problem is that you're only saying it to make it sound nice to those you're talking to, not because you're really going to do something. You speak one thing, and the other you do, you do exactly the opposite of what you say. So you're talking about the need to increase exports, but the funds intended to boost exports this year are reduced from 560 million kuna to only 180 million kuna. My question is, how do you, Mrs. Kosor, think you'll stimulate exports? How do you think it's possible to avoid the agony that the HUP leader is talking about with which you agree? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66100	Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66101	Madam MPs, at least you should have said the name of that HUP member who said that, and since you didn't say that, then I don't have to believe that it was ever said. Because anyway, I would now if I had time to dig up all the papers I have here, I could show HUP's support to this big investment project that we've started, so it's very supportive. But I've been listening lately to the heads of the HUP who, by the way, speak very affirmatively about what the government is doing. They remind you maybe you don't know that you supported the economic recovery programme, which is being implemented in fact by many segments of this programme we have come up with right in cooperation with the HUP. I'm going to remind you of one particularly important one, and that's a reduction in non-taxable giving. So this is a measure we have come up with and spent right with the Croatian Employers' Association. And that the weak arguments when you talk about exports tell you the facts and data you heard and during the opening of the Bio Expo in Virovitica, you could check from then to today and you would probably say otherwise. So, exports increased by 16.6% last year. In some countries and far more than that, for example, the United States, however, we also continue to work especially with exporters. Here's the other day I was in Concara. We agreed on some new measures. Končar, first of all, was extremely good at business in the past year and you should know that, but obviously you want to hear what might be answered, and you do not listen to the arguments that I and the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia are telling you. So regardless of your issues where there are actually no questions, I think it's really this year and economic recovery, but also progress in every sense, the conclusion of negotiations, and I'd like to give you minimum support, but obviously it's hopeless to expect it. Nevertheless we'll work... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66102	Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66103	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have to say I'm not happy with your answer, but I'm going to answer who's head of the HUP. It's about Mr. Damir Hustrak, just so you know which person he's talking about. Without you telling the truth, I will quote an article published on 27.12.2010, which says: "Politicians full of mouths of exports, but final production is not encouraged". It's just about the wood industry, it's about entrepreneurs from my Virovitica-Podravska County, Mr. Ivan Slamic, who is director of Twina. And it's about some other groups they say, and I'm going to quote, "The government needs to give the exporters concrete support because we're going to need the foreign exchanges more and more." Why is it shutting me down? Showed huge exports and potential and said "The state has held in its hands 95% of the imputements that have accumulated from 30 to 50% over the past years. What kind of export support policy is this?" And I'll say something else, Mrs. Kosor, you've had time to show what you know, the only country in which no economic growth has been recorded is unfortunately the Republic of Croatia, and for that you personally bear responsibility. Your time has expired you have had the opportunity but... only empty words like empty words, your words about fighting corruption as you like to say without the rest, because it was really great to see you... /The speaker turned off./... The edge of Kirina... /The speech room off./...and who confessed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66104	What does that have to do with Secretary Kirin?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66105	It does, it does. What do you mean, it's gone?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66106	To express satisfaction or dissatisfaction about the reasons with this Prime Minister, why do you now link it to what was Mayor Kirin at the Expo Fair where I was? What does that have to do with anything? What difference does it make?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66107	Wait a minute, that's because I said it was empty words. .../Conversation disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66108	Mr. Representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66109	Mr. Vice President, my question is addressed to the Minister of Education and Sports, Dr. Radovan Fuchs. The proposal of the University Law has caused a lot of interest, I would say... in the Croatian public, clearly in the academic community. The reactions were very diverse, so even at one point it began to speak, to invoke some sort of event of the people. I think this process, especially since these working groups started in a very positive way. I was also in Split in Osijek and I see that the process is going, so there is a very positive reaction within the academic community. I think it is particularly important to note that the existence or proposal of the institute so-called. software contracts. These software contracts are finally the first time in our universities to allow long-term planning, planning for three years, and I hope not only for the teaching process but also for scientific work. Thus, this clearly creates shifts that are relevant and can contribute to the quality and good functioning of our academic community. So my question is, at which stage is the process that we are talking about and whether this process really includes, which I hope will get a positive answer, not only the teaching process in universities but also the component of scientific work which is a very important and indivisible fact in the university world. I hope, therefore, that this process will actually go in terms of achieving a consensus within the academic community, and certainly to the benefit of universities that represents one key, important national good.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66110	Minister Radovan Fuchs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66111	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Professor Selem, MPs and MPs. Yeah, we're in a phase of enlightened groups right now, like you just said. The law on universities and not only the Law on universities but also the Law on Science and the Law on Higher Education are three key laws concerning our academic community in order to put our educational, higher education and research potential in the same place as it belongs to in the Croatian society, but also in the context of the recent entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. The laws caused controversy, of course, in the part of the public, and that's good, and we said it at the beginning that it was good because after the first phase and the published part of the public debate where I'm going to say it was probably one of the smaller numbers that put the bill on the websites and before the very beginning of the public debate which, of course, was not the case with the 2003 laws which was still valid, and which did a lot of it I would say not good enough in the functioning of the research space in the Republic of Croatia and also did not get almost any effect in the integration of Croatian universities. But we are also at this very moment there are all the comments that have come to these laws, no matter how and how they have been intonated, from very constructive, positive, negative, critical to those in the form of pamphlets. All of this can be read up to one at a time on web sites, therefore so much about the actual openness of the process itself. After all these remarks came together and worked out now we are in the phase of the judgment groups in which individual institutions have delegated their representatives to our academic institutions, so they are not even appointed by the ministry. Here are all the rectors, all the lecturers of Croatian universities, five representatives of Croatian institutes who have recently given declarative support to support or writing and passing new laws. There are representatives of higher education and higher schools, representatives of students and trade unions. These working groups are now in the final stage of working on the comments of these laws. It is predicted that the next step is the plenary session of all working groups, so it is over 50, 60 people where all three laws will then be re-analysed, see if there are any objections and then we will organize round tables in our university centres and then get to know more of all those who are interested. Only after that will the laws be directed towards the government and come here to the tables for you to decide. I think a very broad academic community has been presented and I think some kind of secrecy or conspiracy is more meaningless to talk about. Of course, any adoption of a new law probably promotes different thinking, and someone may not be happily involved in new legal proposals. But what we really want and what we want, we want to do with the transparent spending of budget money, we want to mobilise the research capacities of Croatian institutes in the service of creating new goods and natural sciences, and just as you said programming contracts guaranteeing stable funding and abolishing scholarships for students who were now moving as anyone wanted from 3500 to 60,000 per study group. We take that down to a controlled amount, and that's actually the most important paper that the law in this segment makes, and we'll talk more in detail when it comes to defending the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66112	Mr. Representative Peter Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66113	I am pleased, especially with this component of Mr. Minister's response regarding comprehensiveness, the guilt of procedures in the process of passing a new law, and clearly, I am very pleased that I insist, and I insist, on persuasion of teaching and scientific research. It is only with this equilibration that, with the passing of these two components that we can truly achieve a more optimal result, that this law is truly to the benefit of all of us who belong to the academic community.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66114	Ms. Representative, Sunday's Klaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam President of the Croatian Government, members of the government. I ask my question to the Minister of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, Mr. Bačić. Ministers, the Regional Waste Management Centre will be built in Sibenik. He will handle complete waste from the entire Sibenik-Knin County. In this way and by putting the centre into operation, all illegal waste dumps from the entire county, with a large amount of 67% of what is in nature around 8m euros, will disappear, coming from one of the European funds. Of course, the normal work and functioning of this Regional Waste Management Centre should form a company that will manage this centre. Could ministers possibly be the headquarters and registration of the company near the city, perhaps jeopardising the withdrawal of such high funds from the European Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66116	Minister Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66117	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. Dear Madam MPs, I must correct you in one part of your question, namely the Regional Waste Management Centre is already being built, and you said it would be built. In fact, preparatory work is already being carried out at the regional centre itself, and its construction has already begun. However, the official start of the work at the centre will be around the time when the works start and the construction, reconstruction of the passenger terminal at Vrulja's Vrulja in Sibenik, which is also financed by the Russian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It is true that the first phase of the regional waste management centre at the Sibenik-Knin County is largely financed by pre-accession, from the ISPA pre-accession programme and in the first phase about 68% somewhere around 3 and a half million euros. What I can answer your question is the fact that several regional waste management centres are being built or organised in Croatia. They are all organised and managed in the same way by the centre by the county companies established by the counties. For example, in Istria County a company was established at the county level for the construction of a regional centre Kastijun or in the Primorje-Gorski County at Marinština or in Dubrovnik-Neretva County where a similar centre is also built as a rule, and according to the positive regulations of these economic centres are managed by the county companies or companies established by the county. The provision on the need to set up a county firm, a county firm or a county utility also stems from the government's Waste Management Programme. But what I'm saying is, it seems to me that from your question, at least I read that there is a dispute in the area of Sibenik-Knin County whether the Bikarac Centre should be managed by a city company, owned by a city on one hand. Or on the other hand, a company founded by the county. It seems to me, and I also read from your question that the city of Sibenik and the mayor has a desire to start a company that would manage the regional centre of Bikarac. But according to positive legislation, I said this regional centre should be managed by a company established by the county. But if I may say so, this is not the first time that the mayor of Sibenik looks across the board at someone else's yard and wants to deal with affairs that are not of his jurisdiction. A month and a half ago, he announced that with dissatisfied TLM employees he would bring them to Mark's square to force the government to decide on the supply of energy, electricity to TLM. However, when the Government then proposed a law which I hope will be in the debate today, which concerns the supply of electricity in part and TLM, I did not hear him say a word of support, let alone thank the Government for finding a legal solution and how to take care of over 2,000 citizens and citizens of Sibenik who are in one way or another related to TLM. And I am telling you as former mayor and as representatives of the Sibenik-Knin County to convey my wish, and I believe the wish of all citizens and citizens of Sibenik to speed up the activities of the GUP of the city of Sibenik. Because it is precisely the lack of GUP of the city of Sibenik that prevents the construction and realization of numerous projects that are going towards fostering the economic development of Sibenik and Sibenik-Knin County on the undeveloped and spatial plan of the city of Sibenik, which is intended for exactly such investments. I know when you were mayor that the adoption of GUP was already at a very high stage of adoption, and after a full two years we still haven't brought that plan, and the question is when are we going to bring it to the city council and mayor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66118	Ms. Representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66119	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Thank you very much, actually, for the exhaustive answer. Here's just for one little thing they actually realize that at a time when HDZ authorities in the town of Sibenik, our general urban plan was already in public debate. Thank you, Minister, for also introducing this important project and connecting it to a large investment cycle which, at the head of which our Prime Minister, Mrs Kosor, between 30, actually introduced the construction of the Vrulja fortune, which weighs 12 million euros. Citizens of the city of Sibenik and the County of Sibenik-Knin Madam President knew very well already at the moment to recognize your takeover as well as the takeover of all members of the government. And not only in this project with 12m euros, which will extend the operational part of the coast, which therefore receives these economic effects, but also the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Electricity Market Act, which at this point clearly provides 1000 jobs plus 1500 co-operatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66120	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66121	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm referring the question to the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Karamark. According to the anonymous performance that we received at the club, and I believe it was sent to other addresses for the 2007 parliamentary elections, IN-VOZILA with only two employees donated 500,000 kuna to SDP and 300,000 kuna to HNS. The founder and director of the company was also a graphic editor of the special edition of SDP newspapers called "Justice". There are names of some parliamentary representatives, our colleagues here, Maras and Dragovan. Mr. Minister, do you know if there's been an investigation into the donations made since the anonymous performance I assume went in these directions and whether there may be not only a conflict of interest, but whether there are any collective interests in this case. And the interesting thing is that the same donations in the same amounts to SDP and HNS were donated to MTT, which is also linked to this. So here's the question: do you have any knowledge of the case, of this case, and are any investigations being conducted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66122	Minister Tomislav Karamarko.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66123	Here, Mr. Representative, I'm going to have to give you a very short answer for the simple reason that the M.O.P. has no information whatsoever, so possible illegal actions on the business of these companies. We don't have any application in that sense, so no investigation is being conducted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66124	Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66125	Well, since I put this out in public, I kind of think you're going to consider this today's quote of my anonymous performance, and we're going to forward an anonymous performance from the club, and we're going to be very happy to pass it on to the institutions. But it is signifying that the SDP is today trying to talk about fighting corruption, standing up for it, and just like this. At the same time, we have court decisions that killed SDP's sales, the illegal sale of a house that the party considered its property. So, the party's non-compliance with Croatian laws sold state property but it's not the first time. Let's just remember Mljet where the party member was also selling state land, so fortunately the State's Attorney's Office reacted in time. In this case, only a few years later, there was a court ruling that annulled one such decision. But apparently the party still believes that state property is their property.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66126	Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66127	Thank you, Vice President. In May 2008, the Honorable Prime Minister, the SDP Club referred to the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a decision on the investigative commission in connection with the resolution of the asbestos decline from the circle of the Salonite factory in Vranjec, and because we were horrified by the way in which it is so-called. Resuscitation carried out. We also warned of possible financial malfeasances during the implementation of this project. You were in an idyllic, close friendly period, and I would say half-tronic relations with Chief Sanader, so all of you at HDZ together in the Assembly and Government singing this proposal was ridiculed and rejected. The SDP club did not stop at that, so about a month later, it filed a criminal complaint against responsible persons in the ministry and the Environmental Protection Fund. The DORH rejected the application as unfounded, at the end of February 2010, and now suddenly sees miracles, we read in the media that USKOK, part of the DORH, examines the suspicious circumstances under which the sanity of the Salonite was just mentioned. My question is: how do you interpret the fact that in the first half of the year Mr. Bajic did not see corruption in the fund, and in the second half he suddenly saw and learned all the power of corruption that SDP has been warning publicly and media for years?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66128	Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So first of all, about the way you're asking the question, I could also answer, that here you are in idyllic and semitronic relations with your party president, your Social Democratic Party, and you're asking a question like this, which isn't really. But I'm not going to say that, of course, I'm on all my past, on all my biography proud and yet I'm absolutely behind everything I've done in my life, and I'm particularly behind what I'm doing today as Prime Minister, and there you can be without worry and completely calmly sleep. From your question, which it is not, I read actually a different relationship between you as representatives of the SDP towards the functioning of the institutions of this state, according to institutions that are independent of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So when something the State's Attorney's office refuses that doesn't suit you, then you object, when he refuses what suits you, then you have absolutely no objection. But what I can tell you, since I really support the independence of the activities of the State's Attorney's Office, USKOK, but certainly as Prime Minister, I support the work of the Ministry of the Interior, I believe that these institutions will continue to work in accordance with the regulations, with the law, and that those who need to hear, hear and hear the facts that they are today, some of the facts that have been expressed here today by representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66130	Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66131	I don't need to mention I'm not happy with your answer. Unfortunately, your answer only confirms that people's wisdom that the wolf, or wolf's hair, changes, but never. That's how you prime minister, your HDZ in the past year have only changed your hair, but your corrupt temper has not, and your state's attorney has been and remained stand by, as we have already established, i.e. Bajic on the remote control of the current prime minister or prime minister, i.e. at present you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66132	Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My question is for the Prime Minister. How much damage it is in the state budget, expressed in kuna, as a result of the generous corruption climate in the Ministry of the Sea, transport, the infrastructure of Minister Bozidar Kalmeta, who saw nothing, heard nothing, knew nothing, and that he claimed nothing was even responsible for.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66134	Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66135	Well, Mr. Representative Jovanovic, we'll just see, I'm sure we'll welcome it alive and healthy, to complete all investigations that are currently being conducted, and then, of course, during the course of the proceedings, taking care of the fact that the last word has a court, or courts, and that in some cases that have been launched, we have to wait for powerful court decisions to know who is guilty, who is not guilty, and then will, of course, and then I believe that you know that, you would need to know, see and see how much harm they are if there were, of course, crime. I am the first to stand up with all my colleagues in the ruling coalition, in the government, especially in the HDZ to investigate everything and welcome the truth, because it is absolutely certain that we must do everything possible to do so in state-owned enterprises, therefore, and of course in the ministries, in all those bodies that work in any way with the budget of the Republic of Croatia, or with taxpayers' money all the way and absolutely clean, we can all stand in front of Croatian citizens together. But I expect that at the local level, Mr. Jovanovic, absolutely and locally, and I would also like to welcome the day, and I believe that he will come quickly anyway, if we know what and how much he really needs to answer in the case, and for that you could say something, something more public you could report, whether it would be calculated for example. The final damages in the case of the city of Rijeka, where we have the report of the state audit on the fact that 149 million kuna was unlawfully spent. Therefore, and how much damage on the basis of the fact that only this great money has been used unintendedly can come out, we can only assume it, so I really expect you to measure against everyone equally, to be just and just, but Mr. Jovanovic, Mr. MP, to adhere to Croatian laws and when it comes to your responsibilities and in the event of compliance with the law, here is one of these laws we are just changing about conflict of interest, but also all other regulations. So I believe that we will welcome all the answers very soon. So, of course, I can't answer your question the way you would expect it, simply because I'm not a court, and I'm not the State's Attorney's office, but I'm the Prime Minister, who has to ensure the conditions for all institutions to work, to fight corruption and yes, and that would be good for you to help at least a little bit. That would be good, not because of the election year, but because of Croatia's future.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66136	Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66137	Thank you very much. I'm not happy with your answer. There is no question about my help at all since you look at the minutes of the current clock, you would see that about the corruption of your predecessor who left you in the inheritance of the party and this government long ago asked about the damages that his behaviour brings to the Croatian budget. I ask you to answer me in writing how much the damages in road construction are due to you, which has served as one of the models of the robbery of state-owned companies, the state budget that served as an ATM to finance the personal and party needs of the interns of the HDZ Summit. At the same time, I quote Article 115. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which says "that every minister is responsible for the political damage that occurs in his portfolio", so according to this article is crystal clear and unequivocal responsibility, political responsibility, I am not talking about the criminal responsibility of Minister Bozidar Kalmeta, so his stay in your government is a crown proof that political corruption and the fight against corruption in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66138	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66139	Thank you very much. My question is Prime Minister Kosor. Mrs. Kosor, you've been leading the government for a year and a half since your best friend and closest associate Ivo Sanader put you in that place. Since when did you... No, no, it's gonna be okay now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Since you took over the government, the number of unemployed has increased from 256 thousand to 320, GDP has fallen by 8%, external debt has increased to 45 billion euros, liquidity has reached 35 billion kuna, and it includes around 80,000 unemployed who work in companies that cannot pay their salaries. So, about 400,000 people working in Croatia don't get kunas every month and have nothing to live on. And what are you doing? You do the presentations periodically every half year, first you will ride the horse and then you will then present the economic recovery program that we see being fulfilled with 8% falling. After that, investments go in nine months, then half a year after that, there's nothing from any investment, and you're doing it all in expensive clothes with Pradina and Fendi's purses while these people don't even have swears every month to live. It is very likely simple since unlike the large majority of Croatian citizens you do not have a mortgage on the apartment and you do not have to pay it but you have received it from the Croatian state. But the only question that is raised here is why you do not admit that neither you nor this government can help these Croatian citizens and that their lives will get worse every day without you having the ability to change that trend and get Croatia out of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66140	Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. ... Order! [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66141	Mr. Representative, I am very pleased with your question which is not because from all this you have listed it is clear that you have nothing to ask and you have discriminated against me now by a few laws, I will refer you to the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. As a representative, you should not discriminate me as a woman on that basis and list what are typical women's props like purses etc., and my expensive costumes that aren't. Mr. Maras, I don't have the purses you're talking about, it's like this on the way. But I'm warning you that you are seriously violating at least two laws at this point in your non-questioning, and that's a non-questioning out of impotence because you don't really have what essential to ask. Because I expected you to ask me, for example. In which phase is one third of the projects we have presented and on which we are working. What stage is he in, for example? realisation of the project related to the Zagreb Airport, I expected you to be among the more serious representatives. I repeat once again, no one has asked me these questions that obviously SDP advocates are trying to distract me from what is essential and what should be the essence of our work, or your work, you will neither scare me nor startle me, or you will confuse me, but I could say that at this point, among others, you are my inspiration to be even better, even more determined, even smarter, and even more courageous, and that I am working as hard as it takes me, and as much as you are discriminating me to prevent it. So, about the program, about the work, and look, I don't think it's good that you're actually opening up to me right now, it's not good for you to open up space for me to start discussing lunches and here's a question that Mr. Kunst just asked. So, by analysing what happened at one lunch, and what kind of program is actually being presented to Croatian citizens. I expected you to talk about your client's program, your suggestions. For example, when we were making a budget for 2011, as you know, there was no proposal from your club. Believe me, I would, I would accept a good proposal, I would argue with my colleagues to accept it. In the budget debate, there was not a single proposal, although your party chief, which at least unusually did not have much to say about the 2011 budget, but left the pay phone after several additional observations and handed over the word of a colleague from your club. But it's completely irrelevant, it's a matter of your style and your decision. In any case, and finally I have to deny it, I didn't get any apartment I'm around my apartment all absolutely fine and according to the law and you know it, but you keep trying to humiliate the government's discredition to do your job. You will not succeed in this, we will implement our programme, Mr. Representative, sign a very safe and accessible contract, complete the negotiations and give us at least a little help. If not, we will conclude at the end of this process that we have succeeded without your support in a major project and with this we will go to the citizens with the growth of the economy and thus, Mr Maras, again, I must say and now as a member of a party, regain the confidence of the citizens and win the elections. Thank you very much, keep going at this pace.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66142	Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66143	I'm glad to inspire you, but to see that there's nothing to do with gender discrimination, and I have a purse, although it's not Fendi and Prada and it's not worth 15 thousand kuna, but it wasn't in my mind to walk towards you because you're second sex, because you're a woman. But what is important is to say, you mention some projects now said Zagreb Airport, we listened to your predecessor Mr. Sanader who had already announced these projects in 2006 and 2007. And there's Mrs. Kosor around all of your projects, these are all already told for the last 10 years, and we can make a list of what you haven't done in eight years at all and why you missed your mandate. And what you should accept and acknowledge to Croatian citizens that you are unable to start the Croatian economy, make these projects, hire people, but simply by presenting for presentation, by small arrangements you try to extend your mandate, and the interest of Croatian citizens would be to step down and call parliamentary elections as soon as possible. If you are not so afraid of the results of the parliamentary elections, which you do not call, it seems to me that you want to keep the post of prime minister as long as possible and in some way extend the agony of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66144	Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66145	Dear Madam Prime Minister, the economic opportunities in the Republic of Croatia are very difficult, we agreed both on the left and right and on the centre that the Republic of Croatia is in a difficult economic crisis, and Croatia is also faced with a whole series of corruption scandals, it has been discovered, it is being pursued to combat that much of the public funds ended up in pockets and in the accounts of politicians from your party and clients. The government has declared a programme of economic recovery and is notifying the public that it is working on it. My question is that as part of the economic recovery programme, the Government of the Republic of Croatia revised the official attitude of the Republic of Croatia towards anti-fascism.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66146	Madam Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66147	I am not sure, Mr. Representative, that I understand your question well, in the economic recovery programme, which is of course logically not a word of anti-fascism because it is embedded in the original foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that you know, therefore, the programme of economic recovery deals with economic recovery, and so it will be, so, unfortunately, I can't answer you to a question that I didn't understand. However, since you have mentioned corruption by saying only one party, I ask you, Mr. Representative, when you talk about corruption and the fight against corruption to say what I am saying, which is that it must go in all directions, towards everyone, that it cannot be untouchable, that no member of one party can in that sense be untouchable and that here in the context of some of the facts spoken here that the rule of law must treat everyone equally, because we know of some cases, and the judgment of members of your party that we cannot mention here in Parliament, but all possible affairs or something that appears in the media regarding people from another party to support it with full lungs. Therefore, I am asking you as Parliamentarian to once say that, I want the rule of law to work equally for everyone, that we are all equal according to the law, that is, before the Constitution and by the laws, and I want to investigate the cases that relate to the members of your party, so I want to hear it, I believe that we will also experience it. And as for antifascism, he is in the original foundations of the Constitution, there is no debate about it, and the programme of economic recovery continues.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66148	Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66149	Dear Madam Prime Minister, I am certainly not pleased because you are now clearly showing that you do not understand what the parliamentarians from the centre and left are asking you to do. I asked you about anti-fascism, as far as corruption is concerned, I didn't quite realize that I should be giving you any statements, you know, I took an oath to the Croatian Parliament. But to go back to anti-fascism, the government of the Republic of Croatia that you are chairing has informed the Union of anti-fascists and fighters of the people's liberation struggles that more money for them in the budget you're running is gone, so if that's the measure of economic recovery, then I have to tell you that you didn't steal that much money, put it in your pockets, pour it into the FIMI media, and who knows, there would be money for anti-fascistsists... It is your duty to respect the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and if you already say it is in the original grounds, do not humiliate anti-fascists and anti-fascist fighters and do not send money to others and your own companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66150	Comrade Richembergh, this is one really amoral insult, as you can insinuate that the Prime Minister and others were stealing at the expense of anti-fascism, that's what you said. It's one faceless lie, one faceless insult, the least I can tell you is a warning. Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66151	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I would like to address my representative's question to Mr. Secretary of Administration, Mr. Davorin Mlakar. Dear Minister, your answer to my parliamentary question since 7 December 2010 is a school example of answering in such a way as to avoid any response that all representatives of the Croatian Parliament have convinced themselves. Since you didn't answer my written parliamentary question, I assume you didn't understand it last time, so I'm going to repeat it in a simpler dictionary. I quote Article 11(1). The law on political parties: "The application for entry into the register of political parties will be denied, if the name clearly does not differ from the name of the already registered political parties." You or your predecessor have registered for example the Split Party of Retired, Primorje-Goranski Party of Retired, so again I ask a concrete question: Would it be possible, for example, in your ministry to register a party called the Croatian Democratic Union of Retireds or the Split Croatian Democratic Community or even more precisely how many of the most words in the name of the existing party can have a party who wants to register in order to clearly distinguish itself from the already existing ones or to avoid bringing voters into confusion and thus change the voter's will? The result of a marked lack of criteria for clear game rules in your ministry is amongst other 8 registered parties with a pension sign, and it is clear to all in the end that an attempt to deceive voters is in the works.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66152	Minister Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66153	Your Honor, I thank you for asking me a simpler question that I may understand better than your written submission. And I have to discourage you and we understand that submission and we have answered you what is regulated by law, and I will try to repeat to others now, given that they have spoken on their behalf. You referred to Article 11. The law on political parties which determines the responsibility of the Ministry of Administration in the party registration process and allows us to reject the request only if the name of the political party is not sufficiently different from that already registered and registered in the register of political parties. The verification of the validity of the application of the laws and procedures of the Ministry of Administration shall be carried out by the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, which, in the case of complaints, has already been decided by similar names of the parties in some previous proceedings, I do not think there is a need to speak about the parties concerned, when the Ministry of Administration refused to register such parties, the Administrative Court annulled such a solution and the Ministry of Administration was obliged to register parties which had only one word of differences from those already registered. The Ministry of Administration is not the one that initiates the establishment or registration of political parties, so then it has no intention to confuse voters, but it is you who are applying for the registration of parties of the same or similar omen. I suppose your question concerns the latest events regarding the registration of the pensioner bloc as a political party, which by its name according to and position, if you want the practice of the Ministry of Administration, the practice of the Administrative Court and what the law allows us to register because the group of pensioners as the name of the political party differs enough from the political party called the Retirement Party, so we were obliged to have such a party and to register. If you are interested and are interested in the ministry's opinion given these restrictions set out in the law, we do not have the opportunity to claim what you are saying, but we can doubt that an increasing number of requests where parties of similar signs appear are actually your idea that you confuse voters to end up with more than 6 or 7 parties of similar names are not sure who they vote for. It's not in the ministry's jurisdiction to solve you, it's your idea to call the parties and with which requirements you apply for registration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66154	Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66155	Of course, Mr. Minister, I'm not happy, and you're fine with what I'm about to ask. I didn't ask that. I asked if you would register the parties mentioned as I called them. That's not what I got the answers to. But it's very interesting about the super-party creation of the pensioners' block together, because it was registered on December 6, 2010, and it signed an agreement with the government on November 23, 2010. So she first signed the formation agreement with the government on the formation of the National Council for Retired People, and on 6 December it was registered. That tells me a lot. It is a matter of supra-party formation because it is members of that party and members of other parties. If you don't believe it, look in your register. What I'm saying is true, look in the register. Furthermore, Mr. Ministers more than 110 registered parties do not show signs of life other than before the election, so it would be advisable to review whether the parties fulfil their constitutional obligations and whether the presidents are alive. I know a few cases like that. I believe that the Ministry of Administration is not a passive observer of events on a political scene and must have criteria, it cannot be done without criteria. And I think that in this way that it is working in Croatia not to protect voters at all and the work of the Ministry of Administration is not in the capacity to develop parliamentary democracy in Croatia and I ask the written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66156	Ms. Representative Karolina Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66157	I'm asking the Prime Minister's question to Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. Mrs. Kosor's workers at the Stonestone Factory were on a hunger strike a few months ago asking for wages for work that they did fairly. Workers of "Kamensko" and citizens of activists and activists and students protested peacefully in Ban Jelačić Square on several occasions. Among other things, it's very likely that they couldn't make it to Mark's square because your government banned your party from gathering on Mark's square. I know that it is not easy to listen to the demands of people who seek their rights, you probably do not want to be disturbed when you think about the future of Croatia. So, when all of Croatia was buzzing about this apparent robbery and violation of fundamental human and labour rights and the dignity of these women and workers, while the whole of Croatia felt for them you did not show yourself to Mrs Kosor about their problems for months. Croatia looked at itself in the workers of Stonesky and in their fate, they saw themselves in their fate and many workers and workers because they were afraid that a similar or same scenario would not happen to them. And finally somewhere at Christmas you did have mercy and meet with the workers of Kamenski,..... /The speech was excluded./... then you said, what the media passed on, you promised to quote you: "See what you can do about the continuation of production in Stoneski, even though you expressed your skepticism because that is why funds and investors are needed. Then you also said that you would contact the Croatian Privatisation Fund, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship about this problem, and you promised workers that you would continue and contact them about solving their problems. Since then, the month has passed, so here I am asking you today, I am actually giving you an opportunity to inform us, so the entire Croatian public about what you have done in the meantime to finally help the workers of "Kamenski". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66158	Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66159	Thank you very much. Madam, your question, of course, is not to help the workers of the Stonestone but to re-know which time is disqualified by the government today. So I've been in touch, I'll be in touch, the government is doing what's possible, but I believe you understand, yet you can understand that the Government cannot and will not go beyond Croatian regulations and beyond Croatian laws. Therefore, we are also absolutely doing what is possible under Croatian regulations in the case of "Kamenski" and in other things. The problem isn't easy and it's not simple. Believe me, if it were easy and simple, we'd have solved it long ago. And as for the meal about the government banning workers from coming to St. Mark's Square, that's absolutely untrue. The decision on a certain regime in St. Mark's Square, where both the buildings of Parliament and the Constitutional Court and the Government and other institutions are located, has been made by the Croatian Parliament and in accordance with practice in other countries, where governments must operate primarily, therefore as executive authority. And on the fact that you want to make me, first of all, completely insensitive to the problems of the people in Croatia, I am quite sure that you will not succeed because the best workers of Stonestone can confirm it. On the side of all the parolees, all the empty words, Madam MPs should work and we should work in the case of Stonestone and others. And about what's new, I'm going to brief the workers that were last time, were both workers and workers who were in my government.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66160	Mrs. Kosor, but I'm curious about what's new and I don't understand why you didn't share that information with us today, so I'm looking for a detailed written answer to my question. From the answer you gave, it is clear that you have done nothing, that you intend not only to do anything for the workers of the Stone but also for all other workers and workers who may unfortunately find themselves in a similar situation due to the policy of your government tomorrow. It's your responsibility, Mrs. Kosor, the responsibility of the government you're in charge of, and you can't run from it, and you can't run away from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66161	Mr. Representative Ivan Chehok, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66162	Mr. President, Madam President, Vice President, Minister. I'm asking the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Milosevic. It is generally known that Croatia is today about 63% of pre-war industrial production and that investment in industry in the total structure of foreign investment is still too low. Under the coalition agreement, and also according to the government's work programme for this term of office, we should have allocated much larger funds for the textile and wood industry this three years, in general, labour and intensive industries. Unfortunately, this has not happened, and I ask whether there is a possibility that during this year and how they allocate funds for technological support, so to support technological investment, especially for these types of industries that are further damaged by the financial and economic global crisis and the drop in demand in foreign markets, and it is known that there is unfortunately more and more workers, employees in these industries, are out of work from month to month. I think that the Government and the Croatian Parliament must find an urgent way to strengthen this industry's support.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66163	Deputy Prime Minister Domagoj Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66164	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I thank you for asking. Therefore, incentives to the industry of textiles and wood industry are allocated through two ministries, through the Ministry of the Economy of the Textile Industry and through the Ministry of Regional Development, the water economy and forestry for the wood industry, in one ministry through competition and with the approval of the Competition Protection Agency. In 2010, the Ministry of Economy awarded 40 million kunas to the textile industry and the leather and footwear industry, of which 40 million kunas, 30 million kuna went directly to the textile industry. In 2011, through a programme to support the competitiveness of the textile industry, 100 million kuna goes to the whole processing industry, only for 2011. In the Ministry of Regional Development there are five-year plans to encourage or support the development of wood industry by 2010, so in 2006-2010 a total of 222 million kuna was allocated, only in last year 65 million kuna was thus given as support to the wood industry. Over the next five years, the plan is 285 million kuna through support to the wood industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66165	Mr. Representative Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I know the size of the numbers you've been talking about, I'd just ask that if it's possible to allocate funds in the total amount that these funds are allocated when the competition is over, so when they're approved and they arrive in time because that industry so that it can plan its seasonal affairs, we all know how much it's actually related to the season and the demand on foreign markets, there's just no time to wait. So I ask you, together with the two ministries you mentioned, that these support be given in time and in full.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66167	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66168	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. Madam President, last week you visited Koprivnica and Križevci County, and on that occasion you signed a gift that was awarded to the town of Koprivnica with a military value of 110 million kuna. A short time ago the Veli Vrh elementary school in Pula was opened, and it is necessary to say that during the time the HDZ in power was allocated over 3 billion kunas for infrastructure projects, we are not talking about a university campus of about 600 million kuna. And in a number of other environments where SDP or others are in power, of course, significant funds have been invested, but, of course, adequate and quality projects should be applied. Madam President, how do you interpret then constant attacks to invest only where HDZ is in power?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66169	Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66170	Thank you, thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Well, I mean, you don't have anything to interpret, it's clear. We entered 2011, it's pre-election, and some think it's good to say a lot of things and speak a lie to draw voters to their side. But I think that people see first of all, that they understand that the government and under the conditions of the crisis have made a really great effort to strengthen the economy, but also to open space for new jobs, but also to really develop Croatia more evenly as possible. Thus, at no time does the Government decide on any project based on the criteria of who is in power, but on the criterion of where it is necessary and of course where and how much it can be invested with regard to the projects. I hear the SDPs are responding to this, and I'm very surprised. I really don't think it's good this way, ladies and gentlemen, to react, because you have different criteria and that's not good. It is not good for Croatia's future. Because when I sign a gift, for example, like Mr. Agent said a few days ago in Koprivnica, where a large military complex is donated. So worth more than 100 million kuna, then that's good. Then it's considered something that's normal, and when I sign the same thing in Virovitica, then where it's in power, that HDZ, then the representative lady who just asked a question that isn't, then protest against it. He protestes against giving the town of Virovitica also one valuable property to be taught. So, because it will be used for those purposes that are the best investment in the economy, investment in the future, and this is investment in science and education. It is therefore not good for some parties in Croatia to have different criteria on where and how to invest. Here's Mrs. Shuica earlier asking a question. Yes, it is known that the HDZ is not in power in Dubrovnik, but we have already opened the works on the Trafo station Plat and on the other. I'm coming soon as I announced, the construction, or the big, really big project of the HEP hydropower plant Ombla is starting. New investments are beginning in the port as well, etc. etc. I give you such examples since you of course have announced what you will ask, so I have prepared. It would be good if other MPs had even pointed out in principle what they would ask if they really wanted an answer. Because then, of course, we can prepare some things. You said it right. I probably haven't been anywhere more in any city than it is River. So, in my term of office, when SDP deputies ask what I was doing. Well, here's to my mandate as Prime Minister of Infrastructure in Rijeka has invested more than three billion kunas. I have been, I have had the honor of opening this big campus project in Rijeka in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia invested 600 million kuna. But also others. So, I could list places and cities, I could list projects. Here, for example, I'm going to mention the Sports Hall of the Fall. A fall in which the HDZ is not in power, another party, where the opening is, where the government has invested funds, where we have funded the construction of a sports hall where the government has neither been invited, nor the resolution ministry, nor the resolution minister, nor the government as a whole. Also here in Bukovje, there is SDP, in Nova Gradišca, so these are reconstructions of the construction of waterways, the rehabilitation of roads etc. etc. However, these projects that we're not going to read to you would really take a terrible long time. I can also contribute that you have as an agent using you in the debate. So, and these projects that we have presented, which we are going to implement, there are no questions about who is in power but how to implement these projects. And it would be much better for Croatia if we could agree on such things. HDZ calls for such an agreement at any time. But as you can hear the answer, there is no answer. However, I am sure, based on all this experience, there must come a time when all the most important political forces in Croatia will have courage and strength, we have, sit down at a joint table and agree on five or ten of the most important projects for Croatia, which means to roll up the sleeves but also consistently implement these projects. Implementation of reforms also means the pension insurance system, etc. and not when it suits us to promise something else, and when it doesn't suit us then to criticize those who have both courage and knowledge and will and strength. Here you go, Mr. Representative. So the government doesn't decide who's where and how many in power, but over there, we invest where it's possible and especially where we have the answer on the other side, and everything is confidential. The documents exist and here you use this further in the debate to be truly one of the particularly successful representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66171	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66172	Thank you, Madam President. I'm satisfied with the answer, of course, and I'm going to take these materials, so I'm going to share them, of course, to those colleagues who don't believe. But it is also necessary in this place to point out that pensions are coming into every environment, on time and regularly no matter who is in power and how. That health care, and available quality health care in every environment regardless of who is in power, that the damages for the elemental accidents paid out in each environment please nicely no matter where anyone is in power although you are please fine on the left hand side voted against the rebalancing of the same budget. So, she's absolutely trying, so evenly in every environment and we, I'd like to put it down to one of those "let the village talk" words, and the other thing I'd say the same thing, and some even write us release letters from one city where more than 3 billion kuna is invested. I'm not so sure he knows how to write a good release letter because he hasn't worked in health care in a long time. Today we heard that this same colleague was at the same time having a pharmaceutical company, and at the same time he was working, so at the General Council of the Hospital. We remain, therefore, on the trail of the Bible. You stone us, we bread you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66173	And the last question, Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66174	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I'm asking Minister Karamark's question. I participated in the "Latinica" show on Croatian TV a few months ago, and then I just spoke to my colleague, so Matusic on the Dimler issue. It is clear to me that this question has already been raised, but in the sense of putting up these anonymous tips then I have found that I am just doubting that Mr. Matušić is one of those participants in the affair and that he has received a bribe of 5m euros for those trucks. I think it's very important that we get specific names and last names, so it's been a year since the opening of that case, and I hope that the Croatian police, in line with the fact that they have to discover, find the perpetrators are working, and not waiting for the job to be done by Americans. If they told you and sent over 30,000 documents, I hope that we will finally get the names of these officials, so that they can no longer be used for political purposes every little bit of this kind of anonymous tip-off and name-off. Therefore, I ask you, regardless of what USKOK's items today give you the opportunity to always say that you can't comment, to say whether the Croatian police can respond more after one year who took the bribe for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66175	Minister Tomislav Karamarko.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66176	Well, of course, here's the honored Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, thank you for your encouragement to our further work anyway. Of course these documents we've been waiting for from America can be relevant for the final solution. Of course, the police aren't doing the job alone, they're doing the State's Attorney's Office. So here's what you're going to do, and you're going to let us go for a while, without any further speculation about possible culprits, etc. to finish our work by processing these documents we got. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66177	Mr. Minister, I could be pleased with such an answer if you were not to witness that very often criminal charges, as against colleagues Mršić, against Mr. Picula, and probably with such fate around the Rijeka markets, we couldn't convince ourselves that they were falling before an independent judicial body. Therefore, the fact that 20% of police reports fail gives me the right to nevertheless realize that there is no need to wait for others to do so, but to finally do so by our officers. What I must also say, and this is that given the regularity of non-information, I suggest that you take absolutely Mr. Markovanovic, and Mr. Matusic at least as people who are better informed than you, they obviously know everything, and the police are always saying that she has not discovered anything. Well, we hear now that the Americans have just brought some papers and 30,000 documents. Therefore, he must react to that too, not to argue that it is this, this, and that, and then we must get the impression that it is political persecution.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66178	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66179	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 214 has been injured. You were busy in the story, so you didn't hear that my colleague Ostojić called me that I received a bribe from Daimler for $5 million. So such slander and such a faceless lie can come from only one SDP party policeman, such as Ranko Ostojić, and lie so facelessly after a statement to the US court that officials of the government of Ivica Racan have just received a $4.7m bribe. And such an eyeless lie can indeed be uttered by only one police, party official such as Ranko Ostojic. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66180	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66181	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Article 214 has been injured. In spite of that, the representative has no right to insult, but I see I will not go down to your level, I have no intention of going down to your level, still Mr. Matusic, and I am still saying what I said on the Latina show, which, of course, the entire Croatian public could not see, because it is one of the forbidden shows, and it has been abolished. So we weren't able to hear it and see it. If that was the reason, then that's a great reason. Let it be as you say every time you suspect someone, I have the right to doubt them, and I must be honest with you that you are exactly the person that I am completely, I say I am convinced that there would be justifiable doubt that it is you. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66182	It's a public innuendo, isn't it? Public insinuation in the Croatian Parliament, public insinuation. It hasn't happened here yet that one representative pointed the finger at the other and claimed for him that he committed a certain crime and crime. Comrade Ostojić, it is beyond measure. In accordance with the provisions of Article 80, 189, I would like to inform you that the Government has provided an answer to all the questions submitted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the current morning is over. We will continue only briefly with the report of the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs. Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66303	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor... Governments, colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]] The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 55th session, held on 26 January 2011, set out the following proposals. President Branko Bačić and member Angelko Mihalic are resolved in the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament. On the same board, they are elected president Marina Matulović Dropulić, and member Borislav Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66304	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for this decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Once again, who's in? Thank you. Against? Unanimity with 83 votes in favour, made a decision. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66305	The duties of Defence Committee member Angelko Mihalic are hereby resolved, and Branko Vukelić is elected as a member of the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66306	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimously with 84 votes to, the proposed decision was made. Keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66307	The duties of the Tourism Committee member Nedjeljko Strikic are hereby resolved, and Ivan Šuker is elected as a member of the Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66308	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this motion for this decision? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The result? A decision has been proposed unanimously with 84 votes. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66309	A member of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, Bozica Šolić, is hereby dismissed and Marina Matulović-Dropulić is elected as a member of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66310	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this motion for a decision? Restraint? Against? Unanimity with 83 votes in favour. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66311	The duties of members of the Committee on Health and Social Care, Stjepan Kundić and Nedjeljko Strikić, and members of the Committee on Health and Social Welfare of the Croatian Parliament are elected Susana Bilić Vardić and Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66312	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who is this proposal for this decision? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The decision was reached unanimously with 83 votes in favour. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66313	The duties of the War Veterans Committee member Bozica Šolić and Branko Vukelić is elected as a member of the War Veterans Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66314	I'm opening a debate that I'm closing. I am voting on a proposal for this decision. Against? Restraint? The 83 vote for this decision was reached unanimously. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66315	The duties of members of the Environmental Protection Committee of the Croatian Parliament Branko Bačić and Stjepan Kundić are hereby resolved. The Committee for Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament is elected as a member of Marina Matulović-Dropulić and member Borislav Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66316	I'm opening a debate and I'm closing it. Who's in favour of this motion for a decision? Against? Restraint? A decision has been proposed unanimously with 82 votes. Keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66317	A member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament Branko Bačić is hereby dismissed. Božo Biskupić is elected member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66318	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's in favour of this motion for a decision? Against? Restraint? A decision has been proposed unanimously with 82 votes. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66319	A member of the Committee on Gender Equality is hereby relieved of his duties as a member of the Committee on Gender Equality, Bozica Šolić. A member of the Committee on Gender Equality is elected Borislav Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66320	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this motion for a decision? Against? Restraint? Unanimity with 82. I especially congratulate Borislav Matkovic. Keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66321	A member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the joint parliamentary committee of the Republic of Croatia and the EU, Nedjeljko Strikic, is hereby relieved. Božo Biskupić is elected deputy member.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66322	This before makes a man in the right place. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this motion for a decision? Against? Restraint? A decision has been proposed unanimously with 82 votes. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66323	The members of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament shall be relieved of their duties in the interparliamentary union of Silvano Hrelja. A member of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament is elected to the interparliamentary union, Josip Salapić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66324	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? 82 votes for and 1 abstention, the proposed decision has been made. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66325	A member of the National Committee, Branko Bačić, shall be relieved. A member of the National Committee is elected Bozo Biskupić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66326	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Unanimity with 82 votes to make the proposed decision. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66327	A member of the National Sports Council shall be dismissed on the proposal of the Croatian Sports Federation of the Deaf Slavko Podgorec and a member of the National Sports Council on the proposal of the Croatian Sports Alliance of the Deaf is named Mario Lušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66328	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Unanimity with 82 votes to make the proposed decision. Thank you, Mr. President. I interrupt the session and continue the debate at 15 hours with the agenda item Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Electricity Market Act with the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66329	... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The choice of appointments. Please, Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66330	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee for the selection of appointments and administrative tasks of the Croatian Parliament at the 56th session held on 18 February 2011 unanimously established a proposal for a decision to elect Janja Horvat Drobnjak as a member of the National Election Commission. Secondly, the mandate of a member of the commission begins on the day of entry into office, and takes place on the day of the oath before the president of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66331	I'm opening a debate on this proposal. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Let's please get involved and vote on the committee's proposal. Thank you, ma'am. The result? This proposal was accepted by most votes, 101 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against. Ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs will now interrupt the meeting of the Croatian Parliament by Wednesday 23rd February at 9.30 p.m. and we will begin with the agenda item in this agenda under item 12. This is the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Youth Programme in the work and action programme in the field of lifelong learning (2007-2013).). It will be an emergency procedure bearing the P.Z.E. mark. No. 704. Good-bye. Have a nice weekend.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66332	We begin with the point - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the electricity market, the Final Bill, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 695. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by post, on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Economy and MP Goran Maric. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yes, the Honorable Djuro Popioc Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66333	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor. The basic reason for the adoption of the Law supplementing the electricity market law stems from the need to create a legal framework for the supply of energy to privileged customers based outside the Republic of Croatia when justified economic interest is established. The addition of the law provides for the possibility for domestic electricity suppliers to sell electricity to an foreign buyer who uses this electricity to produce strategic raw materials or semi-products, provided that the production of such raw materials does not exist in the Republic of Croatia. The sale and supply of electricity takes place in a way that is a domestically authorised buyer. The justified economic interest of the Republic of Croatia in the supply of electricity to an foreign buyer is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry and, in the light of the attached opinion of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. HERA shall issue an authorisation allowing an foreign user producing raw materials to deliver the required domestic producer to the Republic of Croatia where such production does not exist to obtain the status of a temporarily privileged buyer in the Republic of Croatia. The addition of the law prescribes the conditions under which electricity is sold to an enterprise outside the Republic of Croatia in a similar way as it is sold to domestic entrepreneurs to privileged customers. The application for status shall be referred to by the domestic entrepreneur on his behalf, on behalf of the foreign supplier of the raw material with which the contract is signed. In addition to the request for the acquisition of the status of a provisional purchaser for an foreign producer, the domestic undertaking importing raw materials is obliged to supply contracts and other documents showing the quantities of raw materials and the amount of energy produced. Therefore, in cases where a domestic entrepreneur uses raw materials or a semi-product of an foreign undertaking as a strategic raw material for its own production, it is possible for the domestic electricity supplier to supply an external entrepreneur, the purchaser of electricity in the quantities necessary for production and strategic raw materials. Following the approval of those quantities of electricity, raw materials, deadlines and other conditions for the supply of electricity, the domestic entrepreneur, the electricity supplier and the foreign raw material producer shall enter into a contract for the supply of electricity. HERA shall monitor the execution of the contract, Contracting Parties shall be obliged to send monthly reports on the realisation of the contract and other information relating to the approval of the status of the provisional buyer and at the request of the Agency. In this way, the domestic entrepreneur in a transparent and supervised manner by the competent institutions shall ensure the necessary input raw material not produced in the Republic of Croatia which is produced by electricity supplied from the Republic of Croatia under the conditions of delivery to the domestic buyer. It should be pointed out that, in addition to compliance with energy legislation, such a model is acceptable from an observation of free competition, since it enables freedom of trade and encourages competitiveness where no participant is favoured. The electricity supplier determines the price at which it delivers electricity in which all the elements of business are respected, as well as the charges for individual energy activities as well as potential technical importance, consumer characteristics for the optimal operation of the electricity system. In particular, it should be pointed out that this bill does not deal with the past in any of its segments but is now allowing future work and continued production in those elements that were spoken about this morning and during the morning. Mr. Chairman, Vice President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66334	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. It's the club's turn first. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66335	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Here, as I said this morning if a law can be called someone's name, then it's possible that this law that bears the title of the electricity market, call the name of our prime minister, means the Adriatic law. What is the point of this Act, this is seen here on page 2. means the basic reason for the adoption of the law on the completion of the electricity market law, stems from the need to create a legal framework for ensuring all conditions for privileged customers, as well as energy entities, the provision of electricity trading not only in the Republic of Croatia but also in cross-border transport, etc. Now, come on, let's be honest, we know Mr. Polancec's former Deputy Prime Minister is on trial, he's on trial for the president of the Croatian Power Management of Mr. Ant, I don't know how to read a few days ago here I have an interview with Mr. Kresimir Cosic, and he may also be entitled "What state, Ant point your finger at you, accuses others and listens exclusively to the dear God, the cartoon Sanader," etc. What's the point of this law. This law gives me the impression that gentlemen, some amnesty, or perhaps some other parties have signed the decisions that Polancec and Ant have acted upon, not to say in advance, rehabilitate. And I feel so much that raising your hand for this law is at least wrong. We know who signed the decisions on the allocation of this privileged energy, through TLM Aluminium in Mostar, were the signatures, I'm not saying that it was our prime minister. On the other hand, all of what is on the agenda today can say that some processes in the Republic of Croatia are political processes, that some may be planted because they were far-sighted, others that they wanted to amnesty or to protect themselves, it says the same way that if someone is in power to adapt the rules of conduct to themselves as an example of this legal text, but also if you fall into dissatisfaction that by what will happen next day, this government in this country can also be judged. The clear key is something else, is the state damaged for those famous 600 million kunas of high-priority energy to Mostar? Does anyone in their accounts have millions or tens of millions of euros and that sort of thing? Could it have been that electrical energy over TLM for aluminum that was one model or modus that might have taken over Podravka the day after tomorrow and so on? Or should I say and I can now paraphrasise Mr. Polancec after our president, Luka Bebic, told us that he remembers that decision about the unfortunate electricity and the damages of 600 million was a political decision, then Mr. Polancec said he wanted to believe that some of the others in HDZ would soon regain their memory and that he would remember his actions. In that direction, if I am not mistaken before, say, a year ago, Mr Hebrang, the president of the HDZ Club, when you claimed that it was one conscious political decision to help, a good political decision as pointed out by Mr Hebrang, to assist on the one hand aluminium, on the other hand TLM, etc. Here's that if you let me quote also one text interesting from the Evening List, it's written by Mr. Slider, who also says, "Why don't you gentlemen give me free electricity. And then he says, "A bizarre decision allowing HEP to sell electricity according to privileged conditions for customers abroad is perhaps a shocking surprise after the government's staff refreshation of the economic team. It is unclear why a new economic team in the government thinks it is normal for politics to suggest a state-owned company, to make decisions at its own expense and to help a private company. To persuade the company to make bad business moves is pure perversion etc." and normally mentions here and Dioki, mentions here and why citizens wouldn't be approached like that. And indeed, if the government can propose one of these laws, the Parliament clearly adopts it, then perhaps Robert Ježić, who received more favourable electricity, also innocent and innocently, does not know in Remetinco. So, what I'm trying to say is, one law can't be the law, and one can't be the law for others who are simply hair toys at a given point. I'm just afraid by this practice that we're going to do more harm to ourselves, destroy everything, turn the "legal" state we're after into eating, I don't know the empty state from case to case, and that's already taking the elements of a police or party state. It just can't be good. We have a case that aluminium from Mostar according to this law if the conditions of that year or year ago are applied, they will get a 4 times lower electricity price than, say, the bankrupt Croatian industry. Mr. Jurjevic was asking questions today on the fate of the Split Shipyard. We all read that during yesterday they delivered or released their last contracted ship and that there are no new ships in the order book anymore. I don't know how to shut down the shipyard, and on the other hand, we see that we're trying to get someone through a favorable current. I know that the pressure on the government has probably gone from Sibenik and therefore it is no wonder that part of the opposition voted for this legal text to be considered in an emergency parliamentary procedure. We know who the mayor is in Sibenik, we know that a Sibenik simply lives on from TLM. Don't take my word for it. I don't know how many thousands or thousands and 500 people are there. Don't let God question the system, the question is how would a whole neighborhood or one county survive? But how come no one raised their voice, for example. for the fate of these little craftsmen of ours. They can, for example. We'll talk like poor people, and we'll get some of them right. One Dioki can also come to privileged energy, the poor thing I tell you to die. Someone in Istria needs concession fees for the marina to pay 15 times more to pay twice, that's what we learned, but 15 times more than elsewhere in Dalmatia, and these down there don't do anything again, and these are hiring 600 people, indirectly feeding us and keeping the system as a whole. I think the whole system of gentlemen with this practice or with such laws as today's Electricity Market Act, where one is privileged, one is granted, and the other is discriminated against simply nakarad. I don't know your party friend, guess the big one, and the rest of you do. I think that practice should ring. And since this has been the best witness in the past, this felton that goes out in the evening list, which mentions that famous article 16. I don't know what kind of emigration elite Morh's apartments were assigned to. Gentlemen, once again, I would like to simply point out or emphasise that this policy is simply not good and that it will ultimately bring more harm to the country than benefits, the benefits can only be brought to individuals. We simply brought ourselves or they led us almost to the end. I think that should end because these laws and practices directly lead to everyone in this country not being the same, that at this point we have over 320 thousand unemployed, less than a million and 400 thousand jobs, about indivisibility, etc. that I do not speak, and ultimately, the damage that is created here will spill to 4.5 million citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'm afraid with laws like this tomorrow, there can only be worse in this country, that there's only one thing left for us to do is just give up, give up and give up. People will be clear in the future even more unsatisfactory, but someone may change in power, so they may be more correct about these and such opportunities in the future or towards such companies. I really believe that this Law on the electricity market should at least go to second reading and not vote for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66336	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is the honourable representative...... Please, don't throw it away like that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Agent, get a little chilly. Ante Kulušić, correction of the incorrect quote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66337	For Mr. Cain's correction, it would take these 10 minutes not to say nonsense, it should be corrected for two days. But I'm only going to make one thing right, that this law has some amnesties, some beatifications. [[What are you nervous about?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66338	So, please, why are you shutting down a representative? Turn yourself in, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66339	... and you would be the busiest if 2,000 workers went directly, which indirectly went to the street and not only in Sibenik but throughout Croatia. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] This is an embarrassing debate, not to say nakaradian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66340	Thank you. ... Please don't throw it away! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now you've gone too far! ... He can't do anything. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's move on with the correction. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66341	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I am correcting the quote of fellow Caine who spoke under this law comes to a good guess, but obviously it is about his lack of understanding of the problem. In fact, aluminum can't be bought on a flea market in Trieste and Kapošvara, anywhere else than where you can only get it, and I'm telling you that the problem of getting metal is much bigger than you can imagine. The quality limit today is very difficult to get, before it was easy but here they bought some others, industry and you just can't get there anymore, and here we can get to aluminum and clearly, among other things, and save all possible jobs. So I'm saying, I don't believe it was all on purpose, maybe a little politically bad, but the fact of the total lack of understanding is the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66342	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, distinguished representative of Andrija Hebrang, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66343	Thank you very much. I don't know whether ignorance or politics, but my colleague Cain has made so much inaccuracy, I can only make one major correction. He quotes that a Mr. Slick has screwed up, that the government is making decisions at its own expense, and why not make such a decision for private consumers as well. Comrade Caine, aluminium producers around the world have a benefactory position in electricity supply because it is not energyy but raw material for electrolysis. And you have now politically done what war criminal Ratko Mladic did in '91, his first command for JNA aviation was to destroy the electrolysis in Sibenik, he destroyed and a few days later destroyed the electrolysis in aluminum, he destroyed it because he knew that whoever destroyed the production of aluminium destroyed the Croatian industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66344	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. But without answering the correction, let me hear what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66345	I expected you to at least warn, there's some parallels about the war crime, etc. But Mr. Hebrang, in '91. Or '92. The years in this country were still...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66346	What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? ... What is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor? [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] I take your word for it, Your Honor. [[Then why are we judging...]] Your Honor, you cannot speak in such a way in the House. [[Intruder: And for which DORH claims to be a Croatian state...]] I beg you, Your Honor, I am giving you a warning because you have spoken beyond the Rules of Procedure as prescribed. And don't do that again because I will be forced to take your word and take other measures. You can't act this way. ... Don't throw it away. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Neither the first nor the last one to do it. Let's move on. Correction of the incorrect quote, Dragan Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66347	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, counterpart Cain said this is a discriminatory law and that a party friend is privileged. I think this finding is absolutely scandalous. This isn't about Mark or Per, it's about TLM, it's about protecting and trying to save 900 jobs in TLM itself to dozens of co-operatives, and certainly thousands of jobs, hence, and income from billions and 200 million kuna and exports of 80% that TLM has. Therefore, when you talk about the category of privileged buyer, it is not a fiction, so it is part of this Electricity Market Act which is clearly and precisely defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66348	Thank you. Let's move on. I'm asking you to really stick to the Rules of Procedure and work on the Rules of Procedure. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66349	Mr. Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Immediately at the beginning of the SDP club will support this bill. But let's try to evaluate through this law and where the electricity market is today and what state and whether we can be as parliamentary representatives satisfied with the state of the electricity market. In the material itself, you have an indication that restructuring, liberalisation and the first package of measures in the organisation of the electricity market began in 2001. More significant changes compared to that beginning were in 2004, then I would say not about electricity but about most of them and about other energies something in '06, '07. And '08. A year. Therefore, for ten years we have been working on the design of the electricity market. Where we are today compared to 2001 and we can give an assessment, restructuring has not been completed and this is essentially the biggest problem, so that we can say that we have a high-quality organised market, the regulator is not in full function and it is also one of the problems because if we had HERA as a regulator on the electricity market I would say in full legislation there would be far less problems, there would be far less discussions and changes and additions to the law. So when we try to talk about the third package of the European Union relating to the energy market regulation that the special accent is just giving to the detachment of transfer autonomy, it means the completion of the restructuring process and the special emphasis it puts on regulatory bodies, on the importance of HERA in its independence outside the government, then we must say that we have not even prepared ourselves significantly that we could quickly put this third package of the European Union into operation and improve the state of the electricity market. Therefore, one of the problems that have arisen and why we are discussing this today is certainly the problem of our slow approach to this regulation and that we have been far stronger in postal services, that we have been far stronger in telecommunications services, unfortunately for what is most important we have not been. We also know when we evaluate that there is a huge support between us from the highest energy strategy of the Republic of Croatia, an act adopted in October of the month, an act that would have to activate us all, and if you remember these discussions, the speeds of the debate, the fully divided poles, then you will know that all the accent in the strategy has been thrown into atomic energy and atomic energy problems. At the same time, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, in particular, Prime Minister Kosor has been talking about major projects in the last three months, and among these major projects, the most important part is the production of electricity from your water streams. What the strategy did not specifically indicate, means 2009. If we had brought the strategy correctly if we had turned to that strategy we would not be talking about projects today, we would have been doing work on not only Omble but some other hydropower plants that were supposed to be. Yeah, that's our problem. A fully established wrong strategy on the other hand, today with a delay, because it will simply take us a year for projects, for studies, we do not know when we are going to send the divers to the construction sites themselves. And that's the SDP proposal go back to that strategy, question it, simply on that strategy we've been overly dependent on, on import technologies, on import electricity and not enough about own production. And that is why we believe that something important should be done in that part. Now back to Articles 32 and 33. The law on the electricity market, why do we think we'll support this part? So because in this law we have the government's right to determine tariff consumers, that within tariff consumers and privileged consumers, it determines really parts of the economy that should have lower tariff positions. Therefore, it is not a damage to HEP, it is the economic policy and economic policy of the Government and the government indeed with the price of electricity must run economic policy, and we consider aluminium and aluminium production to be very important for the Republic of Croatia and it must define economic policy in that part and if we do not have basic raw materials, it is not a problem or give a more favourable tariff to the external user. That's why we think the government has assessed it with good economic policy. We will not speak of why this is being brought now, and the contract with those who went into restructuring and investment in TLm was signed earlier, it just shows that the question remains how many capable people we have in the Ministry of Economy, because they simply should not have allowed if they estimate that their limitations are in the existing regulation, that someone simply brings both the government and the members of the Government into this... This should not have happened, and this law should have been one year earlier, if we already consider that for a contract with the new owners of TLM, it was also necessary to amend the law. We personally believe that it is not that we have completed the restructuring process, that we have singled out the transfer, that I would say those who will deal with electricity production, that we have defined very clearly and these special economic operators that have to have special tariffs, I would say no less tariffs than we have in line with our competition, because you know out there in our competition, in our environment, at our borders, cement producers, ceramics, petrochemical producers, regardless of whether organic or non-organic, for us interesting shipbuilding, that they have more favourable tariffs, they are defined, perhaps far more than we have at this point in HEP tariffs. That's where we don't see government policy, we don't see what economic branches they are, because not every producer or every economy can have more favourable tariffs. But of course now we're coming up with something else, what with the losses if production in HEP has losses. This is what we know that the citizens of Europe pay more expensive electricity, the citizens of Croatia for their budget very expensive but not compared to Europe. We've got that step ahead of us. And obviously that the wrong social policy, listen to the one who has 20 thousand kunas, can pay more expensive electricity and lead a policy towards citizenship at the level we are all social cases are unacceptable because then we are not running an economic policy and it is probably waiting for us and it is probably one of the reasons that we are too slow in the necessary reforms of the energy market itself and this separation of production in which we will define special consumers, with special tariffs to be competitive on the European market we simply lack. So at the SDP club, we were dealing with the idea of proposing another amendment to Article 33. Of course the problem is, why is it a problem? Because you're not touching article 33, so it would be out of the Rules of Procedure, so you're limiting our ability. However, in Article 33, the Commission The government is authorized to determine special production in Croatia. I'm not talking about companies, production. And we believe, after all that is happening, that it would be good for the Parliament to define and that in the Parliament we really try on the government's proposal to define that the cement industry must have special, that manufacturers of ceramic products or ceramics must have, that inorganic, organic chemistry. I'm saying, some of us would have stood up for shipbuilding, too. However, it is obvious that certain branches should also be established in those appropriate tariffs to determine how much less. And that far less conflict, misunderstandings and problems would be if we really tried in this way to define Article 33 of item 2 and not to do so is the will of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Economy or anyone else. No, that would then be the economic policy established in this Croatian Parliament on the basis of a proposal from the Government. And, however, let us be honest if we define Article 33 in this way as we speak then there would be fewer misunderstandings for our TLM, which obviously needs more favourable and better quality and yet cheap and available raw materials. Therefore, it is not the only aluminium industry. Apparently there are some other industrial branches. Our suggestion is that since we do not have the opportunity to propose the amendment that the government try to define certain branches with the HUP. It means it's not just government authority. Let's throw in some areas. So we don't have to define tariffs, but let's just try to clarify Article 33(2), would the public in that part and the public understand that it's an economic policy, and the government is still proposing economic policy. Here, that is what I would say about the SDP's opinion regardless of the difficult economic situation, regardless of the difficult and social situation of citizens, we cannot stop reforms. The market reform does not suffer delays, the decommissioning of production from the transfer is necessary. The production and price policies of this production are very important. It must be defined in this section by the Government. But the HERA has to take over, too, and I would say my jobs and make my contribution in these policies through professional analysis. That's the SDP proposal I'm saying. We expect the government's amendment to Article 33, and thus this proposal will neither be controversial nor local. He will be an expression of economic policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66350	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66351	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Linic incorrectly stated that the government is implementing the wrong social policy. That's incorrect. I would like to remind you that in the ministry, in the position of social care or for lip, the funds are not reduced for, in the 2011 budget, the fees to families and the public are absolutely not. It concerns socially endangered groups, etc. And on the participation itself, the payment of the participation. 900,000 citizens in ours for whom he pays, the state pays for a health care participation of quality and accessible. But it's a little strange that you're talking about the wrong social policy of your colleague Linic when at a time when you were vice-president of the government were greatly violated social rights by Croatian wartime disabled, maternity benefits and all others. So it's good to remember these times and your givings... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66352	Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66353	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Indeed, there may be one initial question concerning the debate on this legislative proposal, on the completion of the Electricity Market Act with the final draft of the law, and therefore on an urgent procedure. In order to say the opening debate of Mr Cain, where much is mentioned about the situation, the affairs, everything that happened back several years or tens of years, or two decades in HEP and in the state of Croatia. He also spoke of those 600 million kunas in the same way that there was no such thing as this legislative proposal, and it was actually politically done as he had already said to Mr. Hebrang that it was a political decision that was, therefore, spent on the same intentions with which this legislative proposal was actually made. He didn't mention any other affairs that are shaking our country. Here's from the Bujubjasic affair reportedly still works in HEP and receives salary. Then, he mentioned Dioki and Jezic. Then, he did not mention the purchase of trafostations on, from Croatian highways. So he didn't mention FIMI media contracts with HEP. Then, the purchase of apartments between 2000 and 2004, which are also the subject of saying state and HEP damage at the time. Then, some of us know a lot of affairs where there was a theft of electricity in large quantities. We have examples all over Croatia and also in Slavonia where, as it is people's but not Croatian, it was prescribing before the hour itself, so the electricity was being stolen in large quantities. There's that, too. And so when it all comes together, it's the big money that's gone to say in the wind or somebody's pockets in somebody's bags, and now they're slowly coming out to the surface. Of course there's no money, they come out empty. So, in this initial doubt after the gentleman's speech, the debates of Mr Kajin come up with other debates in which, as SDP representative, Mr Linic is very reasonable about the economic and social components of this legislative proposal, and I see that there is therefore one understanding in the SDP club, but also cares that such things are one way that would be regulated through Article 33 of the law and for the future, so that there is no confusion, that it is precisely defined what strategic needs and raw materials producers, which would then be privileged to say status in the purchase or purchase of electricity. This concern is clear that for TLM, and for bridge aluminum, we know that it employs 2 thousand workers, in TLM 9 hundred, and more cooperatives about a thousand so employees in cooperatives, therefore it is a relatively significant number of employees, who then make up this social component which Mr Linic spoke of, and the economic component of the production of lemons of aluminium, also one of which I say strategic products of the Republic of Croatia and export, one of the major export components of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about HEP, then I must remember those former times when the Republic of Croatia, however socialist, built its money, the money of its citizens, built blocks in thermal power plants in neighbouring republics. She was building blocks in Tuzla, building blocks in Gacko, and then the Kolubara thermal power plant or Obrenovac seems to me. I wonder, I don't know how far the succession went, etc., did we ever seek or withdraw any kilowatts of electricity without paying from these thermal power plants blocks that Croatia co-financed or financed in other republics of the former Yugoslavia. Now, through this law, the bill of law, we will legalize what has actually been done in the past by political will. Is this, as Cain says an alibi that amnests this political decision, which was a few years ago, or is it that we are really on the trail to bring something that would justify, which would also justify the social and economic reasons of the Republic of Croatia? I would like to see such concerns shown before for companies in the Republic of Croatia, which are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. One among them is Djuro Djakovic in Slavonski Brod, which is after '91. The years with 17 thousand workers today fell to two, two and a half, depending on when they're busy, so they invite people to the assembly or I don't know what. How come no one cared about such a strategic company as Djuro Djakovic? Today we have a problem, says Evening List, sparrows in Slavonski Brod. It is a refinery in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is supplied by JANAF, therefore in majority Croatian ownership or full, and is polluting the air in Slavonski Brod. And we can't intervene at all, not even the local government, and the state is silent. So such concern should also be shown in these cases, it would be good to show it, but it is not, so here it is to God that there is such an industry in Sibenik that still gives bread to tell thousands of Sibenik and their children, but the concern that has proved to be a company of special interest for the Republic of Croatia such as Djuro Djakovic back 20 years is indeed, indeed, disturbing, of all the ministers of economies, finances, and all the others who should worry about it. And today, the same concern is due to the profits made by JANAF by supplying a refinery in the Bosnian Ship, but without any threat to that Russian refinery, private, that people have the right to live in Slavonski Brod, they have the right to live normally and breathe at least some quality of air that should be normal in Slavonski Brod. Nobody cares about that. All honours to Sibenik and the Sibenik, fight well and let, as it should, and the port in Sibenik is also funded, I have been to that, that the Government make such a decision. And today I am in favour of this decision, for this legislative proposal, but I must point out, as my colleague Linic pointed out, certain and critical tones against all of this. This law carries, there is no label E, so he is P.Z., a legislative proposal, not a European legislative proposal, this is our internal proposal, let me say, a measure so sometimes, or I have to ask myself, maybe the minister will explain whether it will be in accordance with certain European standards in order to say selling electricity, electricity to another country or not. Is there going to be a protest or a blockade like this that's going to be done with shipyards? Whether it's going to silence Europe or whether it's harmonised that no one can object to us when we adopt a bill like this, so we don't have to go to a new legislative proposal in a month, two, three. And it says on page 2, as the energy market in the Republic of Croatia is increasingly opening up, in which the process of all factors from customers and energy entities, to competent state institutions should be held accountable for the duties and responsibilities prescribed by the positive regulations, this would be responsible if it were written responsible, but also agreed, because this is actually an agreement, responsible and agreed. There's no deal here, but here's the deal. It is true that the energy strategy, the development of energy in the Republic of Croatia, is of exceptional importance for the Republic of Croatia and I, as far as I know, Mr. Minister, Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state has excess electricity, it exports it beyond the borders, so the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. How will the Republic of Croatia, which is constantly crying for energy in any form, either electrically, or in other segments of what Mr Linic was talking about, be wet and whether it will be enough and whether or not it will actually act on the market, as it says here that all factors from customers and energy entities to competent state institutions should be held responsible for the duties and responsibilities prescribed by special regulations, so whether this will also work on the price of electricity by households in the Republic of Croatia, on our taxpayers, I really cannot figure out from this. But maybe it's a hunch. For those social and economic reasons, the HDSB Club will support the adoption of this proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Electricity Market Act, so one may not be the market law or the agreed law, but clearly that what I said as a critical component here I had to say it too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66354	Thank you. We have two corrections of incorrect allegations. First is the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66355	Yes, this law has gentlemen one dominant political dimension. How can we protect a far-sighted Polance? I'm not defending anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66356	Your Honor, what's the correction?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66357	Well, when Mr. Representative said, "Let's judge, some don't." So that's where I want to correct that part of his speech. How can we judge a far-sighted Polancec, under quotes, and those who will do the same as Polancec will be decorated? The rules of gentlemen in this country must be clear for everyone, for big and small. The law cannot be written for one, for a team that is in power and written on the other side against those who are not in power. I haven't spoken against anyone before, least of all against TLM, I've already spoken against practice. If you're with me, then you'll win, if you're against me, then you'll go to jail. It's not democracy. It's a democracy, and it's not a state of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66358	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Thank you very much. And the correction of the second allegation, which is the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66359	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, here I will correct part of Mr. Grubisic's incorrect allegations that the Republic of Croatia has been building buildings in other republics as well as expressing incorrectly of course the government's concern for TLM. I have to say, Mr. Grubisic, I'll tell you it's '73. in the year TLM received energy consent for 144 megawatts with a contribution contract for the construction of electricity facilities and with the usual contract on the level of discount on tariff positions. At the time, he was building the Obrovac, an Orlovac pardon. '74. A year ago, he got the electricity agreement for the new 72 megawatts, just like he did in '83. years paid for the last war for those facilities. Therefore, and it was already before the Homeland War, and in addition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not actually express any concern, but rather enables TLM to regain its starting position in
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66360	Thank you very much. Time. I ask you to stick to the prescribed time because it's part of our Rules of Procedure as well. ... No throws, and that goes to the Rules of Procedure, from the bench. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You have no right, no one. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's move on. Debate by clubs, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic on behalf of the HDZ club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66361	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. In fact, by adopting the Law on the Completion of the Electricity Market Act, we think that first of all those who claimed that no one wanted to take political responsibility for 900 TLM workers would be denied, that someone from Croatia had their eye on TLM land and TLM wanted to be destroyed or that the government assisted some foreign company to get rid of a competing TLM. We listened to all this, but this amendment and the addition of the law proved that the charges were unfounded, that it was incorrect for the local authorities to call on the street and threaten to protest and that everything that seemed to have been ignored, so those systematic efforts and AZTN, Ministry of Economy, County, HEP, TLM means that a solution would be made to make it legal and on the trail of this Law on the electricity market. But also to be in the interest of TLM, of his employees and of the local community. With this law, the government has shown that it takes full responsibility to lead a responsible economic policy, to have a solution for TLM and that production will also mean in TLM and this business collaboration with bridge Aluminium that it will continue and that it has a perspective. Namely, and what I replied to Mr Cain in correcting the incorrect allegation, so this is a contribution to preserving the continuity of production in TLM, this is a contribution to preserving directly 900 jobs, and also, if all co-operatives who are directed towards TLM, so some 1,000 more places, so a total of 1800. This is also a contribution to the preservation of the income of TLM of some billion and 200 million kuna, and it is also a contribution to exports because we know that 80% of TLM production ends in exports. It is also important to note that although this law brings electricity customers from abroad into the position of a privileged buyer, this benefit, i.e. more favourable conditions for the purchase of electricity do not enter the state aid quota. Justified economic interest is estimated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the price of electricity is determined by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Also, when a contract is signed between suppliers, customers and domestic entrepreneurs, therefore between HEP or HEP Trade, Aluminium and TLM... will, on the basis of this law of the prescribed documentation, carry out continuous monitoring of the implementation of the contract on the basis of credible documentation. This solution for the Agency to determine the price, and also to monitor the implementation of the contract, is in general the strengthening of regulatory supervision and is in line with the third energy law package, so the directives and regulations with which the energy legislation of the Republic of Croatia must be harmonised. Namely, the third energy package on which the adoption or harmonisation of legislation moves in March this year, and the complete implementation is to be completed in March 2012, prescribes exactly strengthening regulatory oversight at national level, so that an independent agency, in this case HERA, prescribes prices and controls. Where the conduct of this amendment to the law would be resumed, therefore the request is submitted by a TLM or by another company with a future interest, the Government shall assess, on the basis of the opinion of HERA and the proposal of the Ministry of Economy, that there is a legitimate economic interest in the Republic of Croatia and it shall be approved. The approval shall contain deadlines, conditions, the Agency shall determine the price of the supply of electricity by HEP, then TLM and HEP and Mostar aluminum shall sign the contract for the supply of electricity under special conditions, and at the end of the day HERA shall monitor and control the implementation of the contract to the relations of the authentic or prescribed documentation. Thus, the Law removes any doubt of convenience, any doubt of manipulation and in fact concreteises the political will to regulate in the name of the domestic economy, its development, in this case TLM, such specific relations as the Sibenik TLM and Mostar Aluminium had so far. This Proposal for a Law was discussed by both the Economic and Voting Committee, regardless of whether they are part of a ruling coalition or members of the opposition, all supported by this Act because it is therefore supported by economic policy and should also be said that this Act is not one-off, or that it is not exclusively related to the case of TLM and Mostar Aluminium, but that it can be applied in the future to all other economic operators and to all other situations if requested. The HDZ Club believes that this law contributes to economic recovery, job conservation, but also to quality regulation of this area, so it well assesses the interest of the Republic of Croatia. We see that the Croatian Union Association has also come in support of this Law, and we also believe that local authorities will welcome this solution and contribute to the climate of trust and shared responsibilities when it comes to vital economic interests. The HDZ Club supports the adoption of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66362	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations, the first respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66363	Mr. Advocacy spoke of the contribution of the Continuity of TLM called for the correction of his or my godless false claim as if I were against TLM or anyone else. However, when we talk about privileged customers, privileged customers were in shipbuilding. From 2000 to today, we have sucked more than 20 billion kunas into shipbuilding, and now the day - to - day large systems go bankrupt. But once again, gentlemen, writing the law, and some of us are judging for certain behaviors, precisely for a particular company, is not promising, and that is why Linic's proposal is much closer to me. I mentioned before in the debate the Technomont which pays concessions and 15 times more than some firms similar to Dalmatia, and now I'm going to have Cimos's left-hand offices where 1100 people work, so let's give them gentlemen, who are 100% on the foreign market also a preferential price, and then let's put everyone in the same position through such a form in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66364	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66365	I am correcting my counterpart Kovacevic's imprecise that on this example, the government is showing that it is running a responsible economic policy. Incorrectly, this particular example shows that the government is not leading a good economic policy, because to lead, what we are discussing today would have been discussed long ago, because the TLM problem has not existed since yesterday, but for a long time, so it has been seen precisely that this problem has not been solved. And the second argument on why this example shows that no responsible economic policy is being conducted is that this is not covered, this covers only TLM, but not other industries that are in a similar position, which have electricity in some way as raw materials and production bases, so I don't think that there, that electricity complete industry, those whose direct cost is that right, but those who power enters as a significant factor and raw material, should take everything into account rather than TLM alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66366	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate, it's HNS Club HSU's turn, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66367	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Pension Party will support this bill and this is a good law. It's completely logical and one of the key questions we've been waiting for so far, why we haven't passed that law before. How many problems would be solved if only that law were passed before. And it's perfectly logical when we talk about this law, we're specifically talking about aluminum, it's between 800 and 1,000 people are all kinds of data, but it doesn't matter. Cooperatives are tied up but it is important that it is a single strategic product, it is a technology that has a huge capacity on foreign markets, it is questionable whether parts of the process were necessary to move at the time when they moved to Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is questionable. However, in particular, it is not essential and important in this Act, but it is crucial and important that the price of one main raw material, here electricity is raw material, to be linked to the stock price, since the aluminium stock price, and this is absolutely logical, good, smart and Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired Party supports such a bill which is useful directly for the local administration, for the employee and for the overall economic balance of the Republic of Croatia. It is good that the electricity price is connected to the price of aluminium, it is good that the lower and upper limits of electricity prices are established which guarantee that none of the parties will be put into a negative business situation provided that that is the case. That's what we don't see in the law, that's not what the law says, that's what we're hoping for. In fact, the Government doesn't know which way, in fact, usually when it proposes law to the Croatian Parliament, it does not respect its business obligation, which is to provide us with the effects of implementing this law. There is, normally, nothing new, classics standard, so we believe that this mathematics that will be under the authority of HERA that will be controlled by the Government of the Republic of Croatia will work, that none of these parties that are in the contract will be put in a position of minus, especially HEP as a state-owned company, a company of interest of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. HEP can now legally sell more favourable electricity. That's good, if it had been before a lot would have been solved. How much and how this law will affect history we don't know we'll see, it's a matter of justice. The minister claims it doesn't relate to history, his personal attitude. But I repeat these are things that are under the jurisdiction of the judiciary and we leave these things behind. Our observation at the HNS and HSU club is that it might be smarter, more logical, wiser to contract to deliver electricity at a preferential price specifically in this case works with a distributor in Bosnia and Herzegovina for very real practical reasons, because of the cost of transmission. In this particular case, electricity transmission costs are between 7 and 8 euros, with a total price of between 15 and 35% of the cost. Given the mutual co-operation between the two HEP and Bosnia and Herzegovina's Elektroprivreda, I think this solution would be more logical and, more importantly, more definitely more transparent. However, the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia chose that path and I assume that it had arguments as to why and because of the waiting. I repeat at the HNS and HSU club, we think it would be a better quality and ultimately a cheaper solution. However, when I talk about this law, it specifically refers to TLM. I think it's important that we talk about 800 to a thousand employees all the time, we talk about the impact on local administration, we talk about cooperatives, but TLM has its owner. The consortium consisted of Dalekovod, Konstruktor, Alu-flex, Zagreb installation and Feal from Širok Brijeg. The consortium was given the opportunity to buy TLM for one kuna. By decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the closed part of the cabinet session on 19 April 2007, signed by the then Deputy Prime Minister, and now the current Prime Minister, Mrs Kosor. At the time of the international bidding, there were two offers. One of our consortiums that I mentioned, was another bidder not to mention it now, for 80,f2% of Dalekovod shares and the constructor means they offered one kuna and they got TLM for one kuna, while the other bidder offered 4.5 million euros. This one kuna, this 4.5 million euros. The settlement of the debt TLM had at that time by Dalekovod and the constructor in other words offered 12m and was adopted by the consortium, while another bidder offered 80m euros. These 12 million euros, these 80 million euros. Investments, Dalekovod, constructor of the home consortium 107m, this other 103m euros. Both were willing to take over employees and each other signed a deal with the TLM union, so they agreed. However, I repeat the government's decision at a closed session, a domestic consortium headed by Dalekvod and Konstruktor received TLM for one kuna. The second bidder, who in the total purely mathematically summed offer was stronger by 68m euros or turned into today's exchange rate that is 500m kuna, did not get a job. Well, that's the problem with me. That's what we think at the HNS and HSU. And let us not be surprised why and why foreign investment is the way it is, when on this example we have shown one of our arrogance towards foreign investors. Someone who offers 500 million kuna more. And the question arises, why did we even call an international contest, when we knew who would win? But now, following all of this and these contracts that both the former vice president and president of HEP's administration were in prison and the investigation process was carried out, because it was this domestic consortium that conditioned their entry inside if the Mostar aluminium combination provided them with 5 years of raw materials, and these conditioned lower electricity. And now there's another thing going on that's problematic and that's why it's good to have this law, which is that all that time at that preferential price TLM was taking the total offered or agreed amount of electricity, whether they were working, whether they were producing or being on a remont or whether they needed that electricity or not. And there's a perfectly correct question that we don't have today, those who were participants of the whole process know, but I believe that the judiciary will take their stand on it, whether TLM or the color of the consortium Dalekovod and the constructor were delivering that electricity to Mostar, whether they were selling it to HEP at a higher price, because there was a difference in the price they were selling, how they sold it. Therefore, a whole series of open questions. I repeat, everything is agreed at a closed session of the government and at the end and a contract signed by the former president of HEP Management Antvak with TLM, which is definitely unfavourable for us, what is the damage. It's certainly not 600 million, it's far less, but the damage, the possibility of corruption being opened, has blessed the government's narrow cabinet, they've given the green light, they've allowed it. No Polancec, no Ant, no HEP Supervisory Board, narrow down the cabinet of the government. And that's why it's good to have a law like this, simply to avoid this kind of speculation in the future. But the key question that the consortium led with Dalekvod and the Designer invested in TLM other than that equipment, in which they contributed to the restructuring of the entire TLM because the fact is that for the Competition Agency until recently, it seemed to me until recently she had not given me her position until recently, that she had sought for four years a restructuring plan for TLM so that she could define the status of all the support the state had given in TLM, and the fact that the state had written off its debts after they privatised TLM, says that the story is unknown. And in conclusion, when we talk about TLM and the consortium, the fact is that cleaning up that space down there opened up a space of 400 thousand m2 of land that is now according to the spatial plan of the local administration an industrial zone. According to local administrations, however, it should continue to be an industrial zone, however, as it usually does, if that space is converted into a building space as easily as possible, it is a space of approximately 180m euros. So they invested 120m euros on this side, and on this side only on the part of the land outside this industrial plant that deals with aluminium processing, profits on the land are 180m euros. That doesn't mean they don't need to be supported, I repeat, let's support employees first of all, let's support one industrial branch, let's support one strategic industrial branch. But it is also very important that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, when it entered, when it has granted investors first and foremost the Dalekvod and the constructor who are at the head of this consortium, would be wise and responsible from that government, along with the local administration, that this relationship with that consortium, given that hidden profit, and this 180 million euros is certainly a hidden profit, that it also takes care of the tax bonds that through lower electricity, the lower value of the electricity that HEP will deliver to compensate and make for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia a more efficient and useful variant. And finally, this type of law can be said to be one of the measures of economic recovery unlike that of a powerpoint presentation and those letters of intent that we hear and we have convinced ourselves that they are not benefiting at all. For one specific economic branch, a very concrete measure. If we had, and this is what Linic was talking about, if we had policies in other economic sectors and if, according to these policies, we were to put together measures and the process of deindustrialisation in action, turn it into a process of re-industrialisation to make such measures or similar measures a contribution, however, we do not have them. We don't know what our industrial policy is in this country, which economic branches, everything, it doesn't stand a chance. And there is now also the invitation to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in particular, to the restoring ministry that has been restored, strengthened and staffed and capacityd, to finally give the Croatian public what is the industrial policy of this country. A colleague named Milinkovic reminded the community. New employment is the best social policy, new employment. At this point 53, out of 100 active workers, only 53. We fell, 56, 57, to 53 at this point. We, if we increased by 20% employee participation compared to work active, were 200 thousand jobs. 200 thousand jobs. We're capable, if we know it, if we want it. From the infrared... We certainly won't, but with this kind of support, we certainly will with certain economic branches. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is on the right track, and therefore we support the club HNS, the Croatian party of pensioners, support this bill. But at the same time, we believe that a similar law is necessary and necessary for the wood industry with real effects, not principled nature. Croatian forests raise 20% of prices...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66368	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66369	Croatian forests raise 20% of the price and then lower the price by 20% continue to contribute to the wood industry. It's throwing sand in the eyes, it's not support. Therefore, we call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to in context, and for example, This law, measures like this, continues with concrete measures by concrete industries and finally gives the Croatian public an overview of what this country's industrial policy is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66370	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HSS club, distinguished representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66371	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As we have already heard in several discussions before us is the addition of the Electricity Market Act, which adds the existing law to the new Article 32a, and according to the introduction of an explanation of the applicant, the basic reasons for the adoption of this law stems from the need to create a legal framework for ensuring all conditions for privileged customers as well as energy operators, not only in our country, means in the Republic of Croatia but also in cross-border transport. By passing the Law supplementing the Electricity Market Act, the following is achieved, I will just list a few things. Number 1 provides for the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia when raw materials not produced in the Republic of Croatia are to be produced for the domestic entrepreneur, and special temporary status can enable him to be restructured and trained for the competition. Under 2. also important, the manufacturing process of entrepreneurs based in the Republic of Croatia who import raw material or semi-product into the Republic of Croatia is ensured, provided that it is not produced in our country, and is necessary for the manufacturing process of entrepreneurs based in the Republic of Croatia. The third point, which regulates this new law, is that the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency approves an enterprise established outside the Republic of Croatia for the temporary acquisition of the status of the purchaser of electricity supplied to electricity under conditions according to those provided by electricity customers in the Republic of Croatia. And I will only list one more thing, which is that this justifies the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia by the Government of the Republic of Croatia while the price of electricity is determined by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Therefore, in cases where a domestic entrepreneur uses raw materials or a semi-product of an foreign undertaking as a strategic raw material for its own production by supplementing the Electricity Market Act, it is possible for the domestic electricity supplier to supply the foreign undertaking i.e. the purchaser of electricity in the quantities necessary for the production of this strategic raw material. In this way, the domestic entrepreneur in both transparent and competent institutions, which is an important supervised way, provides the necessary input raw material which is produced by electricity supplied under conditions as delivered to domestic customers. The objective of the Electricity Market Act currently reflects the continuity of production, which we have heard several times in TLM, which directly affects the preservation of about eight hundred jobs in TLM itself and its dependent companies not to list them, while, indirectly, through the continuation of cooperative contracts, affects the business of about fifty companies and about 1000 jobs in these companies, which contributes overall to the preservation of around 1800 jobs that ensure total annual income of more than 1.2 billion kuna from which more than 80% in foreign markets. We do not need to speak specifically about what this means for the Republic of Croatia, and especially for the Sibenik-Knin County. Maintaining the continuity of production in TLM also creates the necessary conditions for the continuation of the restructuring programme, which has invested more than 60m euros so far, and by the end of 2014, the total restructuring programme will be 107m euros. It is also important here to stress that the unions here at the gallery have seen Mr Matijasevic as well. So, the Croatian Union Association also supports this bill. We all got a memo at the clubs. And I will quote that it supports the legitimate interest of workers and their families. Through the debate we also heard something about the price of electricity, but it is not bad and not to mention that electricity in the Republic of Croatia has been one longer series of times, the longer period has not accumulated, and it is also important to note that Croatia's electricity after all those bad years for 2009 is likely to show not such a small profit. Me and our club, the HSS Club, is interested because we've heard a lot here about what it means to be a privileged customer. The minister's reply to his associates how much the company sent a letter to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Ministry, to obtain the status of a privileged buyer. How much of this has the company shown interest in such a thing in the first place. I suppose you know that even though HEP should have that information. But since we discussed it on the Committee on Economy, we heard that there were actually no such demands, so it wouldn't be bad to hear it. And finally, here, after all this said Club of Representatives of the HSS will support the adoption of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66372	Thank you. We've exhausted the club debate. And we're moving on to an individual debate. The first in line is the distinguished representative Sunday's Klaric. Here you go. Neda Klaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66373	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the proposal for this Law to TLM to be able to retake the position of competition in the world market of a strategically important product called aluminium. It provides an even match on the market with all other European aluminium producers. This bill is also the result of the adoption of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a major exporter because TLM realised production worth 125m euros during 2010 of which 100m euros directly involved in exports. But here I am now actually going to answer Mr. Korajevic's question when he says and asks the question, how much did the consortium invest in TLM? TLM was ahead of the completion of the first phase of modernisation, in which only about 20m euros plus 40m euros for craft and capitalisation were spent on equipment alone. This bill also respects the entry into force of imports of aluminium from Bosnia and Herzegovina that enables the balance of the mutual stock balance and is of great importance to our exporters of goods of broad consumption on that market. This bill clearly preserves about 1000 jobs within TLM itself and about 1500 co-operative jobs, which is of enormous not only local but also national, economic importance. The same enormous effort that the government has made in this direction has been developed. And, of course, it's the easiest thing to say is inappropriately inviting citizens to rebel, threatening to go out on the street with the workers. Because in a few examples, we have seen that this is not really how it is done. And then when we did war destruction after electrolysis was destroyed and all this happened, we didn't raise more than 4,000 jobs, we didn't call for civil disobedience, but with much patience we adapted to the post-war situation deeply aware that unfortunately some other cities went even worse than we did. This bill results in confidence in a government that supports further smooth work and stands for the development of a light metal factory. In three years, TLM funds will have a modernized and fully competitive factory on the world market. This bill is supported by both workers and trade unions and, of course, I will personally support it as a representative of not only the ninth electoral unit but also of the Sibenik-Knin County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66374	Thank you. It's the Honorable representative Mirela Holy's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66375	Thank you, Vice President. So at the very beginning of the presentation on this bill, I would like to say as my colleague Linic finally said when he spoke on behalf of the SDP club that I would support this bill. However, I don't think the law is very well done, that it's quite flawed. What makes me think he's missing? In fact, as far as we know, the Republic of Croatia has temporarily closed Chapter XV. with regard to energy and to the obligation to apply all the provisions of the third energy package, means the European Union rules and, in accordance with those provisions, to adapt its energy legislation, i.e. the energy sector as a whole. And given that we have this in mind, and that this very energy package of the directive and the regulation of European legislation will become binding in March 2011 already raises the question why we have not taken advantage of this opportunity, and we have already adapted this law, because I am afraid that through the month, two of us will have this law and other laws from this part in the parliamentary procedure, and I do not think that it is very logical from the position, meaning from the work of the Government itself, and from Parliament itself. Here I would like to remind you that this third EU energy package involves three important things, and the first of these things is to strengthen the role of the national regulator, which is for us HERA, which, as far as we know and do not act on its own and independently, should be a fully independent regulator. The other thing is that separate electricity production, from the transmission and distribution of electricity, which we have in a package are actually united in HEP, and here we think it is very, very important for Croatia to do so in a way that this transmission and distribution of electricity is located in a special company that will be owned by the Republic of Croatia 100%, because it is precisely through isolation that the transmission and distribution from HEP opens up the possibility of actually developing renewable energy sources in the Republic of Croatia. And the third thing that this energy package brings, the third energy package is the liberalisation of the electricity market, which can be quite turbulent for Croatia, because we still use electricity prices as one social mechanism, or social instrument, which we will have to do in accordance with this third energy package probably change, but we will have to think about how we do it. The adjustment in question should therefore not only be the result of the European Union's request, i.e. contractual commitments made in the accession negotiations with the European Union, but should be a genuine wish only for the Republic of Croatia to establish a more modern and business-efficient energy sector. Therefore, the whole process of this adjustment should be seen as an opportunity for the energy sector to be properly regulated as an extremely important and pro-pulsive business branch, and for the entire energy sector to be established on market and sustainable principles. I would refer briefly to the existing situation in the Croatian energy sector which is not very ideal, because it is characterized by the lack of interest of investors to invest in the energy sector, the approval of the construction of energy facilities is complex with multiple administrative requirements and obstacles, price determination is not marketable, there is no quality and sustainable system of protection of socially endangered customers, there is no real possibility of changing electricity suppliers, i.e. natural gas, and the entire energy sector is dominated by two companies, which are INA and HEP, and they are often just obstacles to something more significant changing in the Croatian energy market. All of this, of course, has a high import dependence on the Republic of Croatia, and this should be mentioned that the Republic of Croatia is among the largest gross imports of electricity in Europe, as well as an insufficient level of investment, both in classical and renewable energy sources. To better understand the extent of this problem, it is enough to say that from 2000 to 2010 only 100 megawatts were built in thermal power plants, and 45 megawatts in hydropower plants, which is at an annual level less than 15 megawatts or 0.35% of the total installed capacity of the electricity sector. At the same time, praiseworthy, but in our opinion and insufficient 70 megawatts of wind power plants were built, and unlike that, as we all know well by 2020, a large number of these thermal power plants, some 110 megawatts, will come out of the plant, which will, of course, increase the dependence of the Republic of Croatia on electricity imports. In order for such an unfavourable situation to change, reform is necessary and we think that a good basis for this reform is precisely this third European energy package, and for this reason I am expressing it by surprise and regret that in the amendments to this law we have not already been able to implement those provisions of the European Union directive, from the regulations of the European Union that are affecting these issues, by the fact that we are going to have to adopt it in the Croatian Parliament soon, because this is what the accession process of the Republic of Croatia commits us to the European Union, so I ask you to give a brief explanation in your final speech which you are not at this point, in this law we have already installed these obligations in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66376	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66377	You have explained all of this in detail, but I should point out in particular that citizens are a little close to this topic. What do citizens see from all this? Whenever it comes to such and similar packages, including the first energy we adopted a few years ago, the consequences for citizens are that both electricity and water and gas are increasingly expensive each time. Countries that do not enter the European Union have just for the sake of social peace have the social prices of such things, so both electricity and water and gas. We don't have the protection of workers, the worker doesn't pay the salary, but we need to adapt to market conditions. And there's something else important to note. In all the civilised countries, in all European countries, where there is state property in certain companies, or primarily the property of the company, these are the generators of the development of these countries, and unfortunately we see the turbines of corruption, and that is why it collects electricity among other things, let's be open, and we have to say that. This law from a legal point of view, except for these economic benefits that are unequivocal and what do I also support, but why hasn't it been passed before? Which is why a vacuum was created that the government itself was acting discreetly and the particular question was raised whether it was from corruption motives to act somehow differently, beyond the law? That's one thing. And another thing, is this really lex Polancec, that in some way, because the entire government is involved, it covers the lawless state and that it somehow gets out of that situation? Because the government, if she had been responsible, could have done all this for many years without any such shame that is now being dragged before our courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66378	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66379	Dear colleagues, you're right in one part. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not run a quality social policy. However, it is wrong to use electricity prices as an instrument of social policy. If the government actually had some strategic vision of the Republic of Croatia, it is certain that by decentralising the electricity system and building decentralised units, regardless of whether it is energy or power plants, and especially from renewable energy sources, it could trigger a new development cycle in the Republic of Croatia and then it would no longer be necessary to defend the price of electricity because it would be employed between maybe 100 or 200 thousand people in the Republic of Croatia on these projects, it would have regular salaries, it would settle the needs for electricity from its sources, and then, I think, these citizens could, without a problem, pay some real electricity price, or the government shouldn't use it as a social policy instrument, which is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66380	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It's an honorary representative of Andrija Hebrang's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66381	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. There's been a debate about the law, and all the while, in fact, in our speeches, there's been an investigation going towards HEP, TLM and associated entities, and it's kind of trying to tie it up. I don't think it should be brought into a relationship simply because the investigation into HEP's current is being conducted by TLM and Aluminium Mostar, and it's not correct to talk about it. And secondly, because it was a wise, good and quality government decision because with that government decision, and I'm going to say more about it, it saved thousands of jobs and saved a healthy export called aluminum product. If that was illegal, then it's not up to us, the ones who need to do it. He also mentioned the privatisation of TLM by counterpart Koracevic. Well, at the time, I was on official duty, and I followed it, he was a more formally favourable bidder, but he did not guarantee a continuation of production, so we were afraid not to repeat the evilrex or the sword, but to continue production in TLM and production in Aluminium Mostar. Why do I care about production in Aluminium Mostar? Because Croatia is the 12% owner. No one's said that before. Aluminium Mostar is the owner of Croatia in 12% shares. Therefore, it is also part of Croatia's state production and Croatian state-owned factory that must be cared for. And therefore aluminium has special and aluminium products have a special production status because in them electricity is not just energy, it is also raw materials. And that is why all aluminium producers have different status in their countries and, of course, in EU countries, and that is included in all the negotiations we have signed there. Mostar's top aluminium combination product was rated in world terms as the best quality aluminum. Also, TLM produces the best quality aluminum products. I called it the southern Croatian triangle. One side of the triangle is production in Aluminium – the product, the other side of the triangle without which there is no production of raw aluminium, but also the third floor of that triangle, which is Luka Ploče, which imports clay, which exports aluminium, which transports coal and without which job absolutely Luka Ploče would have another status without talking about the number of employees. This triangle is of particular interest to the Croatian state because I said that in all the floors of that triangle we are owners or co-owners, or we sold it, but under conditions to continue production. And that's why we had an alarm in 2004 when Aluminium Director Mostar Brajkovic came in and he said, "We're stopping production, close TLM, you can cut Luke Ploče in half because we don't have electricity." We tried interstate negotiations as well as mentioned by counterpart Koracevic and advised him to get an agreement with neighbouring BiH on the supply of aluminium to Mostar. We failed, unfortunately. And what else could we have but suggested a decision that would give HEP, under more favourable conditions, to Aluminium Mostar, or TLM? Was there anything wrong with that? It's not. It was the government's decision to save thousands of jobs, not 1200 plus 1,000 in those two companies, but tens of thousands more of those cooperatives and all those involved up to those employees in Luci Ploče and all those who have all the byproducts, and there are many, products, transport, sell or install. So that decision was wise, it was political, it was economical, and it was economically justified. According to that decision, the electricity supplied by HEP was only 6% cheaper than the market price at the time, of course. We need to know that the equivalent of producing 56 thousand tons of aluminium is 100 megawatts of power power. And by that it was managed and the price achieved was as much as I remember 46 euros per megawatt, and it was sold by 42. So, the difference was 5% or 6% which was not of course some damage or some damage to the Croatian state because export was maintained, employment was maintained, and that 12% stake in Aluminium Mostar was maintained, and of course TLM was maintained. Then what's the problem? The problem is, maybe that's when the law was supposed to be passed. Maybe it shouldn't have been an affair. The contract was signed at the level of the management, i.e. the HEP Supervisory Board, which we thought was then considered sufficient and no one objected because everything was still working. So I think that the law that is before us is a great law, that allows this southern triangle, the export triangle that needs to be stimulated – total exports are about 200 plus 100, over 300 million and up to 500 million in good years euro per year, aluminium and aluminium products, that this should be encouraged, that this should be investigated if there were irregularities, but not only the decision should be politicised and it should not be politicised by the aluminium producers themselves, or aluminium products. What I would say in my conclusion is that this law came early might not have been slow. It's not too late now either, but the hardest part of all is that we, let's not say to the malicious, but we also harm TLM and Aluminium Mostar and the Croatian export industry, and this is not good because the competition in aluminium production is very fierce and very strong and it is not excluded that our bad discussions will not spill beyond the borders and harm to the producers themselves, i.e. the participants themselves in this export triangle. That's why I think the law should be supported, and I can see the amendments he's been corrected with. That after this law, political debates about this problem will cease, and what happens to investigative actions, I think we'll leave it to those to whom it goes. I welcome the law and support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66382	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations that is the esteemed representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66383	Thank you very much. Well, hebrang, in his debate, claimed that this second bidder whose bid at the tender was 500 million kunas more favourable than this domestic consortium, Dalekovod-Constructor, which is not true. In fact, the second bidder signed a social agreement with the trade unions before making an offer and accepted the obligation to continue production and all employees, unlike the domestic consortium of Dalekvod and the constructors who also signed the social agreement with the trade unions, and only after they made the offer. So these are the ones they gave before, and these aren't until after. Therefore, it is obvious that in this whole story, they have ruled out feelings related to national identity but unfortunately many real ones later say that individuals or some of these national identities have been charged, and there is potentially a profit in the reuse of land of 186m euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66384	Thank you very much. We have one replica, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66385	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am encouraged here by our president of Dr. Hebrang's club to say a few words and to support what I've heard here, but also in response to some parts of his speech. So, first of all, I think it's important to say that both of the points we're talking about in the war, both TLM and Aluminium destroyed the same enemy, so the same enemy bombed both entities. If it hadn't been for the Republic of Croatia, it wouldn't have started production in Aluminium in Mostar, the question of whether it would have ever started because the technology there was what it was like with what I saw and what they told us was almost impossible to run if it hadn't been run right then and in the way it was run. On the other hand, I think it was one of the wisest investments and moves of the Croatian government, because the Croatian government not only started production there but also became a co-owner of Aluminium. On the other hand, it is also important to say that Aluminium in Mostar is a model company in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all, so the best company, a company that binds itself to a number of others, a company that provides jobs, a company that fills the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget rather than any other company. But also if Aluminium from Mostar didn't go to Croatia, it would go anywhere else in the world and the question under what conditions. It is not true that such material could not be sold elsewhere. So let's stay away from the findings that we've just heard here or so far about this thing, down to one perfect organisational project that actually ensured the functioning of both elements. And my support to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it has now joined in this way and thus to say everything that has been done so far and what will appear in the future when it comes to the production organisation and all together legalised. If someone has something, if there's someone who might have done something wrong in that thing or don't let God take some money, it's not the question of this law. ... And your exposure, Mr. Hebrang. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66386	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66387	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to thank my colleague, Bagaric, because he and I have visited this gold mine called the Aluminium Mostar together several times. I say the gold mine because it's actually the only source of profit for the Croats of that area, the only safe source and without it I don't think the survival of Croats would be that we can say it freely. Of course, for all those who work there and belong, they work there both Muslims and Serbs to avoid any confusion. I was in that combination when Mladic rocketed him and when he leveled him with the country the decades-old effort of that collective, but I was also when Mijo Brajkovic could freely say one genius with a group of enthusiasts got from President Tudjman's initial capital and therefore we now have a 12% share of the ownership in it and raised one consortium in which the first aluminum came to buy from Mercedes. And by doing so, they showed the priority quality of that Aluminium. And why do we have to throw mud on what's good and good today? Maybe that's why colleague Koračević says it's part of our national identity, and then I welcome it more.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66388	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It's next, Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66389	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few words about the law supplementing the Electricity Market Act, although a lot is said, but several contributions to the debate on the objectives generally adopted by the law, it prescribes, foresees, and in this particular and so far the only case in Croatia that means links between TLM Sibenik and Aluminium Mostar. It is clear that the basic reasons for the adoption of the law supplementing the electricity market law stemmed from one creation of a legal framework which so far did not exist to ensure all conditions for privileged customers as well as energy entities to enable electricity trading not only in the Republic of Croatia but also in cross-border transport. The objectives achieved by this law are to approve an enterprise established outside the Republic of Croatia to temporarily acquire the status of the buyer of electricity that is regulated by a temporary contract and which is supplied to electricity in accordance with the conditions applicable to the purchasers of electricity in our country. This is the task done by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. A continuous production process is also provided for entrepreneurs based in the Republic of Croatia who import raw material or some semi-product into the Republic of Croatia, which is not produced at all in our country, and is necessary as an integral part of the production process based in the Republic of Croatia. All of this is supervised by HERA to verify compliance with the conditions through the deterioration of the validity of contracts governing the supply of electricity to an foreign entrepreneur or whilst its temporary buyer status. Especially when we are talking today about the only case in Croatia that exists, which we heard on the Committee on the Economy that has the approval to sell electricity abroad, which is the link between Sibenik TLM and Mostar Aluminium. This ensures, however, continuous supply of raw materials for Sibenik TLM which is not produced in the Republic of Croatia and is produced in Mostar Aluminium. Furthermore, continued production in TLM Sibenik is ensured and most importantly jobs and salaries are provided for 900 workers who live and work directly in TLM Sibenik, and we heard almost 2000 total employees who are related to TLM and TLM production. There is, of course, a place on the domestic or world market for this product, and it should be said that through the discussions, it was heard that predetermined areas should be defined in such a way as to be in a privileged position. That's impossible. We have heard and we know that from case to case requests will be resolved, assessed, issued approvals where the full role is played by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, and the justification of economic interest is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this way takes on a large political responsibility which is precisely seen in this first case in Croatia and which will definitely be fully legalised by this law. I want to pull a parallel here when talking about privileged customers and consumers of electricity abroad who are connected in this way to Croatia and to privileged consumers in the Republic of Croatia. It occurs to me only there from the surroundings of our county where I come from two large privileged customers of electricity Plamen Požega, Lipik Glass, glass in Lipik, who also use the status of a privileged buyer of electricity. Perhaps this is exactly the model in this crisis economic situation for these domestic customers who already have a somewhat privileged buyer's status to come into contact, to see in the calculation of the electricity price whether there is room for them to get their privileged status even more significant through cheaper electricity. Of course, for customers in Croatia whose electricity is involved in costs of 10, 15, 20 or more and for sure that any shift, every small percentage of the change in electricity price for already privileged customers in Croatia, would also lead to the preservation of jobs, to the preservation of production. We just heard today during the morning, it is the programme and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all those who want good to the Republic of Croatia. In addition to new investments, the opening of new jobs should be considered in particular to save jobs of course in the production which is essential for all countries, as well as for ours and seen in the calculation of the price of Croatia's electricity industry whether there is room for companies that do good business, which use large quantities of electricity to raise their privileged status even by a mere percentage, for a few levels, to meet these large producers, electricity customers and of course to get the status they deserve in Croatia, to preserve existing jobs and the economy as a whole in Croatia. All praises to this law, we have heard a lot on the Committee on the Economy of Elements which speak for the benefit of this law and I believe that in the perspective of Croatia there will be more cases like today's TLM link between Sibenik and Mostar Aluminium. Of course, I support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66390	Thank you. Mr. Representative Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66391	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. When the law comes in a procedure that clearly has a purpose to help the domestic industry preserve jobs and in some way protect what is happening in Croatia, that is to say, to prevent what has been happening in Croatia in recent years, which is a loss of jobs, you must support such a law. It is therefore not disputed that the Government can decide that in certain segments with specific inputs in a specific process, it helps a particular industry to preserve jobs and ultimately to keep that production going. The question around this law is whether it's the right way to define it in the law. The first thing, no one doubts that the government could do in certain situations, is that Mr Hebrang said what happened, help a particular industry and in some way protect production because it is also related to production in Croatia, so he would not have any problem if it was aluminum in Mostar. But in this law, it is proposed that electricity prices be defined and determined in HERA, meaning not in the Government, but in the regulatory agency. What is the point of this, i.e. it is clear what HERA should determine, which is the price of electricity to consumers in Croatia or to citizens because they all receive electricity from one source. But when it comes to business users, HERA companies can hardly be mixed in relationships such as contract length, quantity etc. So I don't see the point in which the law has chosen that HERA determines what the price of electricity is instead of being done by the government on the basis of the instructions it has, meaning the relationships that exist between one company and another, in this case Aluminium and TLM. The price at which Mostar Aluminium should buy electricity because I will now remind myself of another thing, whether the price is 10% lower or higher because it is also a private investor, depending on the price of electricity, it will have a lower or higher profit. So HERA is not the agency that could enter such business processes and therefore determine what will be the ultimate electricity price for Aluminium Mostar. This should be done by the government, specifically the Ministry of Economy, the government should make a decision with the previous opinion of HERA, not here to have the situation for HERA to make the decision. I will also remind you of one more thing, in information that I have resources or raw materials that TLM receives from aluminium are not much more competitive than prices on the European market. The question arises whether electricity prices can be linked, while TLM also obtains more favourable raw materials. So there are many elements that we should know before the final price for Aluminium from Mostar or any other customer that appears in the future because the fact is that now this law is done because of one single problem, or one single buyer, but in the future there may be some more that may fall under those criteria. And another thing is also now that when we talk about the price of electricity, the price paid by "Aluminium Star" is more favourable, or lower than that paid by privileged customers in Croatia. And I am now wondering whether we want to help our industry in the same way not only indirectly through the production of resources in "Aluminium" but because of what there are users in Croatia who are in serious problems and who pay for electricity more expensive than they pay for "Aluminium" from Mostar. So there's a lot of problems, and all of these things need to be looked at from a broader point of view. And that's why I'm not happy, even though I'm going to vote for the bill of this law since the intensity is good. But as far as realisation is concerned, i.e. the definition of the prices of implementation that will be defined and priced in the future, I am not happy. I don't think the way is optimal. It's another thing. Since there is a minister of the economy, we are asking other raw materials and we are taking a little care of it in Croatia, for example the market and the price of gas that burdens the Croatian industry. No one's talking about her. We let that determine INA. We know that now the crucial role in INA has a Hungarian side and then there is no surprise when Croatian consumers, the Croatian industry pays 20, 30% more expensive gas than what the industry pays in Hungary. And here I also expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to engage more actively and assist the Croatian industry in order to be more competitive especially with most of the export-related industries in order to be more competitive on the European and world markets. There was almost nothing done there except, of course, that we left behind that we no longer have any effect on what the price of gas will be for Croatian producers, especially because INA has a concession on our sources and two-thirds of the Croatian gas that INA pays by I would say low and ridiculous prices and make big profits at that job. And I'd like to invite the Minister here to talk about this problem too, because many of our producers and our industry I'd say moaning at those costs, and now that we've found ourselves on the issue of aluminum from Mostar, we've quickly found a solution. We've put the bill in the House. But when it comes to our industry, it's not going so fast and it's not going so fast. Finally, if at all possible until the end of the debate, I believe that I do not change this provision that this final price is not determined by HERA but by the Government. I think it would be a more appropriate and normal solution than for HERA to determine something that has no impact on information or knowledge whatsoever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66392	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ante Kulisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66393	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. As a representative of the Sibenik-Knin County, I support and welcome the adoption of this Act, which primarily allows for the normal continuation of the production of the Sibenik TLM as a headquarters, economic operator of the Sibenik-Knin County, which depends not only on 1000 families, workers employed in the mill, crossovers but also many other cooperatives, entrepreneurs dealing with the processing of aluminium and are directly related to TLM. This draft law primarily seeks to enable transparent trading of domestic suppliers and electricity dealers with customers abroad under the same conditions under which it is sold to domestic customers and in the case of a country of strategic interest, which is certainly the case in TLM. The adoption of these amendments and additions will create legal assumptions according to which HEP as the current sole supplier of electricity in Croatia will be able to sign a contract directly with the bridge "Aluminium" which will then, in cooperation with the Sibenik TLM, continue the supply of strategic raw materials to continue production in TLM. I must stress here that the Sibenik TLM ended last year with an income of around 150m euros, which is an impressive figure not only for the town of Sibenik and the county, but also for the Republic of Croatia. Namely, TLM is an important participant in Croatian exports since it exports about 80% of its products. I stress that this is about an important economic and political decision. The triangle "Aluminium" Mostar, TLM Sibenik and the port of Ploče is of special interest to Croatia since Croatia is a 12-percent owner in "Aluminium" that on the other hand all goods that enter "Aluminium" go through the port of Ploče which makes up a significant part of its capacity. This is evidence that problems such as those encountered by the Sibenik TLM can be constructively solved by dialogue, not by calling for a strike and roadblocking, as did the current leaders of the city of Sibenik, who, with the claims about Sibenik as a city completely forgotten by state institutions, where vaccinations from higher-level investments are misleading citizens of Sibenik. When only current investments in the Sibenik-Knin County are summed up, more than 78m euros are currently being invested in this area, making state money, money from EU funds. I welcome this opportunity and the president of HUS, Mr Matijasevic, who supported this proposal and thank you on behalf of the people of Sibenik-Knin County, and once again I welcome this decision from the Government and I would like to thank all those who participated in the process of making this decision. I will support this bill. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66394	Thank you. Ms. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66395	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. In fact, there's been a lot of words in the debates so far, so I'm going to cut my debate and cut it short. However, I will say some important specifics that I think should be highlighted, which, of course, are related to this Law. Therefore, first of all, it should be said that this Law is adopted because of the need to comply with the emerging economic conditions, and also because of the particular economic interest when raw materials not produced in Croatia are to be produced for the domestic entrepreneur and such temporary arrangements can enable it to be restructured and trained for the competition. Therefore, in cases where a domestic entrepreneur uses raw materials or a semi-product of an foreign undertaking as a strategic raw material for its own production, this law will allow for the supply of electricity from an foreign entrepreneur in those quantities necessary for the production of such strategic raw materials. In this way, it will be possible for the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency to provide in a very transparent manner, which will, of course, be supervised by the competent institutions, so above all the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, the domestic entrepreneur to provide the necessary input raw material produced by electricity supplied under conditions as delivered to domestic customers. HERA will play an important role as it will monitor and verify compliance with the conditions during the period of validity of the contract, which regulates the supply of electricity to an foreign entrepreneur. Therefore, those engaged in the supply of electricity may, under the same conditions, establish special relations with customers abroad, where, of course, the State is in a special, or strategic interest. What does this mean on a specific example, as we have already had the opportunity to hear today? This therefore means that HEP, as the current sole supplier of electricity in Croatia, will be able to deal with aluminium from Mostar, which will then continue to deliver strategic raw materials to continue production in TLM. What is very important, and especially in today's conditions, is that this law allows economic activity, i.e. primarily the continuation of production in TLM, further enables the rescue of 900 jobs in Sibenik directly, and indirectly to all co-operatives who use TLM aluminum for their final products, which is another 2 thousand jobs. What we should also point out, and what we could hear today is that this law is not one time, and is not only related to the case of TLM, but will refer to all similar situations, which will, of course, contribute significantly to increasing economic activity, but also to preserving jobs. Finally, it is important to point out that these amendments were welcomed by the Croatian Union Association of Unions, and the Croatian Union of Metals, and the Croatian Union of Unions addressed us with a special letter, which requires our support, primarily because this law goes in the direction of protection of interest, and in favour of workers and their families. I will certainly give full support to the adoption of this law, which I also call on the other MPs and MPs in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66396	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66397	Honored Mr. Minister with Associates, Honored Prime Minister. This law should certainly be supported for pragmatic reasons, because it will really protect a number of jobs in the Republic of Croatia, ensure safe delivery of raw materials to light metal producers in Sibenik, and these are the good parts of this law. However, there is a real question about this, in the light of the law, we have not had a chance to see anything, in which he is a relation to the third energy package that we must adopt here, in which he is in relation to the negotiated chapter 15 concerning the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, because let us remember little about what is said in Progress Report, so the report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia regarding accession to full membership of the European Union. He says it's a good progress, that good progress has been recorded, but it's not all solved yet, especially in the area of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. Then there's the problem of nuclear safety and radiation protection, where here we have the problem of this radioactive waste warehouse that's not systematically solved, and it's also entering this negotiating part of the chatter 15. No doubt in the Republic of Croatia radioactive waste is generated by normal industry work, research facilities, and it must be taken care of somewhere. I am not talking, again, about nuclear waste that occurs in the regular work of Krško nuclear power plant, which is the Republic of Croatia 50 percent owner, I am talking about radioactive waste, so all those substances that occur in nuclear medicine, research activities of Croatian institutes and universities, then in economic activities, as well as residuals related to some previous practices of the care of radioactive thunders, fire alarmers, industrial sources, etc. So now we have a situation that's worse than none, because you don't know and you can't store that material anywhere. The government has therefore not determined how it intends to address this problem in the near future, which could result in significant consequences on this temporarily closed chapter 15. More attention should also be paid to energy efficiency, attention to alternative renewable energy sources, and this would likely make energy more available to consumers in the economy and in normal, or citizenship. Because secure energy supply routes have no doubt both influence and price. Today we have had opportunities related to this law that we are discussing to hear that it will also be some sort of template by which other similar cases will be solved, because we can now also mention Petrochemia, and there is a large number of workers, families who are doing their job, and which would be more secure and cheaper energy very important for production. The question arises why did this law or this situation with the Light Metal Factory not be used to create one system law that would put all privileged manufacturers in the same relationship and not favour one or the other in relation to their relationship? Only then could it be said that there is one systematic concern about this extremely important sector. And this is the question of what our friends in Europe are going to tell us if we solve these very, very complex situations partially by transferring HERA to essentially hot potatoes. And just once again, let us look back at this Report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia where it is now objecting to the Republic of Croatia's relationship with HERA, which is not, in the opinion of the European Commission, truly alive in its full independence. So the question arises what does this law mean in the context of this objection. Generally in the Republic of Croatia and in this House is one very big problem in action, which is that laws are not put into interrelationships and often happens, I am now not only objecting to the Ministry of Economy but it is a general phenomenon that laws are in mutual cohesion and that it is correct in walking. So this law compared to all these European legal gains, it is not clear how much it actually violates European acquis, but as I said from a clear threshold it should support it, and then I guess you'll have a certain time, a few months, to come up with a more systematic solution. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66398	Thank you. Final review, Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Đuro Popijac. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66399	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I thank everyone, and I think that this is the most important part of you respected MPs understood the reasons and supported the amendment, that is, this new amendment to the law, and I don't think it should be mentioned specifically, although I didn't speak directly about TLM and Aluminium, but of course you said more or less about the relationship that will be established and the reasons at the end of the direct occasion of the adoption of this law. With this, of course, we allow HEP to start negotiations with both TLM and Aluminium on concrete and contractual obligations and relations between these three businesses and energy in the final line of entities. You mentioned and opened various topics. So, since investing in the energy system, of course, I don't know how you missed it, so some of you respected deputies, the energy sector is exactly one of the most interesting and most desirable economic sectors for investors. We actually have the greatest interest in investment right in Croatia in the energy sector. And it will likely be very soon and supported by concrete results. For self-renewable sources, therefore for wind parks we have so far shown interest in over 770 production facilities and only the Ministry of Economy has issued over 400 approvals that are a prerequisite for the establishment of local permits. Of course, you also know how much wind parks have been built and which are in phase, in certain stages of preparation and construction. You've paid a lot of attention in your presentations to the third energy package. Of course the Government of the Republic of Croatia is aware of that. Over the past several months, intensive public debates are being held precisely on the variants of implementation of the third package's obligations, and tomorrow is one of these public debates in the Ministry of Economy and I call on all those who want to engage, and believe that these discussions include the most important experts from Croatia in this area, to join and make your contribution in order to define the best possible solutions, and I recognise in some way what Mr Linic said that he advocates exactly the variation of production from transmission. This is all in Croatia's electricity system, and this is all being discussed with the measuring people in Croatia. We really want to come up with a wide range of stakeholders with the highest quality decisions and solutions and you will soon be here and witnesses to changes of laws and new laws. Four new energy laws are being prepared that will essentially do whatever is our obligation to the third package. And so it is true that the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency will also also continue to strengthen their position by this new law, and this amendment is also going in this direction to confirm HERA's role in defining tariff systems and defining prices. You also mentioned the privatisation of TLM, and this topic probably opened up many opportunities for a variety of topics and discussions, so I would just like to say, and this is already mentioned here, that the restructuring plan taken over by the consortium that was involved, which at the privatisation stage and joined the project, has invested over 67m euros so far. The restructuring plan should also be completed by 2014 when around 117m euros in total investment and funds will be invested in both the consortium and the technology and one part in crafts, but also in the development of further products. I think that as it is here and said this is really a real opportunity, so also through Aluminium Mostar which is in some way a technological assumption for the delivery of raw materials to TLM because TLM is closely connected to the precisely product that produces Aluminium, so he invested certain funds and in the equipment of Aluminium years ago. It has technologically defined precisely with the Aluminium Mostar method and the alloy and composition and quality of the raw material which enables TLM to produce such a product, and TLM is bound to a range of Croatian manufacturers of various aluminium products. And I'm sorry that he's not here and the gentleman from Istria where one of the greatest pressures was just from Istria because one respected aluminium producer was very concerned about the survival of his industry in Istria if something happened to TLM. So I think this is still really thanking everyone together for supporting this law. I would just like to point out that as a representative of the government, I accept the two amendments that have been submitted to this law by Agent Goran Maric and the Committee on Economy. Here's my final review. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66400	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66401	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Electricity Market Completion Act, the emergency procedure was P.Z. Number 695. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Economy and MP Goran Maric. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Electricity Market Completion Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was passed unanimously, 100 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66402	Moving to next point 2. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 701 The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and Justice. You received the reports at the session. Proposer representative State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Damir Kontrec will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66403	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers with the Final Proposal of the Law. This law has two parts. In the first part, I would venture to say that further reform of the administrative trial is being carried out, since it determines the coefficients for judges of future first-degree courts or the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, while the second part determines that the additions would be made in accordance with Article 5. The law belonged to officials assigned to the seats of the Deputy President of the Court, i.e. the Deputy Head of the Other Judicial Authorities or Judges who carry out the tasks of the President of the department or of the Head of Department that these accessories would not apply in 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66404	Thank you. Rapporteurs of the Committee on Legislatives, chairman of the Committee, Mr Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66405	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 113th session held on 25 January 2011, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials with the Final Proposal for the Law, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 20 January 2011. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal of the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure, nor to the proposal to enter into force on the day of its publication in the National Journal. At the same time, the Committee considers that the feedback provided for in the provision of Article 3 of this Act is proposed for particularly justified reasons. There are no objections to the text of the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66406	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The club of HDZ Representatives Mrs. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66407	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers with the Final Proposal of the Law. It's a very short law I'd like to say from just three articles. The first article actually regulates the salaries of newly established specialised courts of administrative courts and the High Administrative Court. These are courts, as you know, which are now set up as well as first-degree administrative courts in view of both the Council of Europe Convention and the European acquis with which our legislation was to be harmonised, which provide that administrative courts become courts full of jurisdiction. Therefore, in this provision of Article 1 we cannot agree that the remuneration coefficients of judges in these specialised administrative courts and the High Administrative Court actually comply with the salaries so far of the existing specialised courts, which are commercial courts. I believe that it may be because there is only one change and a complement to enable the functioning of newly formed courts, but certainly there remains room for one debate within the judiciary and for one detailed analysis to see the ratio ratios within and the range of coefficients within courts mainly of first degree courts, general and specialised and relations within courts of lower and higher degree. But like I said, maybe in some future request when this matter is being debated entirely. We certainly have indicators and we can have them because I would say that judicial work is one of the most measurable jobs paid from the state budget, whether efficiency is measured by judge norms, whether it's quality control by measuring the ratios of confirmed, abolished or modified decisions. Of course, here is the Ministry of Justice and the entire system of monitoring the work of judges, except through coefficients, should be evaluated and equalised by courts and judges. We certainly see that measures to streamline the network of courts have already made significant progress in equating the burdens of judges, but this systematic monitoring should continue to bring decisions on the number of judges in individual courts in order to achieve a truly uniform burden on individual judges or judicial referendums because we still have situations where there are significant differences and sometimes great proportions, even in relation to 1:3 or 4, which, of course, reflects the effectiveness and quality of the trials in such courts. Here's to conclude, as far as coefficients and coefficients are concerned, we fully support it. In Article 2(2), this law lays down as well as the years to date a further delay in the application of Article 5 of the basic law, which provides that the application of the provisions on salary allowances to vice-presidents, the head of the judicial authorities and the head of the department in the judicial bodies is to be suspended because there is not sufficient means to do so. But I would say that this has been done in practice in a way, so it did not remain as an unsolved area, in such a way that these additional affairs that judges in these courts are doing are dealt with in such a way that this additional work is taken into consideration through the relief of the case-solving norm. Finally, Article 3 which provides for retroactive application, namely in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which, apart from the general provision and the principle that the laws act on erga omnes, only after the publication and the passage of the deadline for the introduction of the law, therefore vacatio legis, and only for exceptional reasons, only a single provision of the law may have a return effect. Since it is the need to account for the salaries of judges from 1 January 2011, it is necessary to apply this retroactive application here. This is why the HDZ Club supports this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66408	Thank you. HNS Club, HSU, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66409	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen from the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party club-Liberal Democrats or the Croatian Party of Retired Party will also support this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials, but it is our duty to warn us of several elements. It is good, therefore, that this proposal has come now, in some ways on time because we all know that the process of meeting the criteria in Chapter 23 is now practically in the final, and by February 11, we are obliged to report on everything we have spent in meeting the criteria for Chapter 23. On the basis of this report, which should therefore be concluded very, very soon, 11 March will decide whether the chapter will be closed or not. If it is not closed, it is an additional complication on our way into the European Union, as this whole process will make it significantly difficult and delayed. It is therefore important that in these 6 out of 10 criteria in which we are expected a very concrete report on concrete actions and shifts where things concern not only changes to the legal rules but also concrete developments in these changes in our judicial system and miles. So let's do it on time, quality and realize that we're doing it for ourselves. As far as this bill is concerned, it is also not clear to us why all the time regulations, year by year, and now, by law, in fact, Article 5 of the basic law, where they are being completed, is constantly delaying its application. It is, I will remind you, about the provision of the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers which regulates the issue of salary supplements because the Government has reportedly failed to provide sufficient resources for years in a row to implement this provision. It doesn't seem fair to us that this is done in this way because if it is already a system and if colleague Lovrin as former justice minister says that this issue has been compensated in some way in a way that further work is honored in the norm of solving cases of judges or judicial officials, then we don't see at all why it is in the law. That provision was to be thrown out of the law, and when the conditions for the provision of funds for addition to the salaries of the judicial officials concerned are met, that provision should be included. This is how she's funny, year after year she just repeats the mantra not to be applied this year but to sacred nowhere. And we've now put ourselves in a position to define it in the second half of January, so retroactively. It is not good and it is not good when in these situations we are referring to a provision of the Constitution that allows in exceptional cases the application of the retroactive principle. If we do this on wages or use it, I'm not sure it's well used, and that's what the government needs to be aware of. Therefore, we do not understand why it is in this situation at all. We will support this bill, but we ask that such details be kept in mind because they lead to an awkward situation and judges themselves. For example, if today is January 26th, they could rightly count from the 1st to the present day of this year on the additions to the salary. And what happens now, now all of a sudden we say no, it can't, just these days, the next week when your salary bill is going to happen again to you what happened last year and cut and cut both years ago and before that year. But they are not naive, they expect it, and to them it is clear. But they're people who know how to read regulations, so it's probably funnier to them than we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66410	SDP advocates' club, Ms. Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66411	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club supports the adoption of this bill, of course, because it is quite logical after the formation of the High Administrative Court and the administrative courts that will be courts full of information, which means that they will conduct discussions. That the deplorable principle was one of the fundamental principles and that it was a fundamental objection that was lacking in our administrative trial. And it makes sense then that these courts, like all the other courts, will be the president of the court as well as the judges. However, indeed here, a colleague said before me, saying on behalf of the HDZ Club that the issue of redistribution, namely the question of the relationship between the coefficients, should indeed be opened, that is, to be very concrete between the salaries of judges of a certain level. We all know and this is now more inadmissible that judges of municipal courts as well as municipal state lawyers have the lowest salary. The truth is, someone's gonna say they're the lowest in that fateful hierarchy. However, given the ratio of the maximum of 7,86 to the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the Judge of the Municipal Court 3.11. Is it justified to make such a big difference when we know that all the burden of judging is borne precisely by the judges of municipal courts, that the largest number of cases are being poured into them and that they bear the greatest burden of trial in the Republic of Croatia? In addition, it is not negligible and the fact that we cannot escape that the judges of municipal courts as well as the deputies of municipal state lawyers are largely women. The higher the hierarchy, the more men prevail. When we talk about some topics, then we can't just talk about these topics, but also when these problems occur here. Therefore, the greatest burden is borne by the judges of municipal courts, and it is unacceptable in today’s conditions of judgment that this difference has developed in this judicial hierarchy. After all, it's not fair. They are judges who must bring justice to the parties, and they themselves suffer a certain injustice. And I think the time has finally come to think about it so let's see what the waist itself is saying, even though there was often no solidarity. Because when we had the strength during the coalition government to equalise wages to the state's attorneys of the same rank as judges in adequate courts that it did not well among the judges well echoed. We therefore expect greater solidarity in this regard. Then I think we'll come to a fairer and fairer solution. As for this other amendment relating to the non-application of these supplements, here, although we will support the adoption of this bill, we must regretfully conclude that the Government did not have so much power, and eventually find the resources because these are not so large an asset that would burden so much the state budget on the one hand. And on the other hand, she'd let me know exactly one signal to the judicial authorities that as long as they're all denied that they're being denied, and this supplement, especially since here with every passing law of a new prerogative, new obligations are being brought to the judges. And the situation of the past few years has been such that the growing number of judges is being appointed. The basic reason is therefore incomplete, there are still unfulfilled judicial sites. The main reason is the lack of funds in the state budget. On the other hand, often uncritical as accepting criticism from the European Union that we have too many judges per population. And that's right. However, the team should say as we just said that our basic problem is that we have a large number of cases and that should be answered. Is that why the government is guilty? Is it who did it? Is our people... I believe that it is not, that there are still inherited problems lagging behind and that we will probably now discuss the Law of Peace that we really get common forces that peace is the only way out of this crisis and that there is, therefore, what we have missed so far, but there will be a little later words, that there can be no politicisation, that it is the only way out of this crisis that still rules the judicial system because of the congestion of the case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66412	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66413	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the promoters, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Recently passed laws, and this Act amending and supplementing the Law on Courts and Laws on Courts and Courts, has been established by the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia with its head office in Zagreb and the Administrative Courts in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek as specialised courts, which should begin on 1 January 2012. In view of the need to carry out the procedure for the appointment of judges in order to allow those courts to start by working on 1 January 2012, the proposed law supplementing the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials shall determine the coefficients for the calculation of the salary for the President of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia and the Judge of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the coefficients for calculating the salary of the President and Judges of the Administrative Courts. Furthermore, it is proposed to postpone the application of the provision of Article 5. In 2011, which is prescribed that a judicial officer appointed as vice-president of the court, i.e. the deputy head of another judicial body or a judge who performs the tasks of the president, has the right to add to the salary, given that the application of this provision would require increased funds for salaries and that this provision was not applied in 2010 also by virtue of the Regulation supplementing the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers. In view of this, I support the adoption of the Law on Supplements to the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66414	Thank you. Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66415	Thank you very much. Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of State. Before us is a law that is relatively short, and which has gained its meaning, it will only get its own sense when we declare it, according to what we passed several months ago, which is the Law on the establishment of administrative courts, as particularly specialised courts, which is a further reform of the Croatian judiciary ahead of here for the conclusion of negotiations and we hope to quickly enter the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. This law defines the coefficients for judges of administrative courts. I would agree with the proposal that future coefficients be at the level of the trial, and also at the level of burden, because not every judge is equally burdened, especially here in the administrative courts, is not the same level of burden on the judge of the lowest level of the administrative court and the president of the municipal court, so that in the time that we have the opportunity to consider it a little bit and comment, and that people are adequately paid for their work which is not easy at all, and that is also a contribution to this article 5 that we are constantly postponing, I hope that in 2012 or 2013, when we become a full member of the European Union, however, there will be enough funding for this article, because it may not really make sense if we postpone it like this, so retroactively apply the Croatian Constitution. I believe that even the burden of the courts, we, yesterday on the Committee on Legislative Law, will discuss the laws for three hours, and we see that as soon as we adopt something, a new directive is already coming from the European Union, there will be a lot of work, a lot of tasks for our judges by entering the European Union itself, because it is not enough to carry out the negotiations alone,... We enter, become a full member and apply all these laws, and know how to react quickly and efficiently to any change that will be much faster from Brussels than we may be used to right now in our legal system. [[You don't understand.]] I believe that the economic situation, given all the positive movements and measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, through measures of economic recovery, through those of our three national interests, is the exit from the economic crisis, Croatia's entry into the European Union and the fight against corruption without any crime will gain its meaning, and this is also the meaning of this law and all of those laws that we have passed and the Judicial Academy, and the State School for Judicial Officials, and specialised courts, it is all our desire for one original and perfect Croatian judiciary, and for the quality of our membership in the European Union. I firmly believe that all the measures that the Government has taken will receive both its goal and its result by entering the European Union and by passing all these laws, and I believe that Article 5 will also make sense, that all those who work hard and work in the judiciary will be adequately paid for their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66416	Thank you. Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66417	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished State Secretary, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So here, at the very beginning of my presentation, I will say that I absolutely support this bill, and in both of its segments, we have had the opportunity to hear by now that, although it is a short law, with few articles still consisting of two parts. The first part is actually relying on what we're talking about, or we're saying reform of the administrative trial. In fact, this is one point on and, when we talk about reforming the administrative trial, the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act, and the possibility of functioning of newly established or established judicial institutions, of course it is about administrative courts, and the High Administrative Court with its head office in Zagreb, as well as administrative courts based in Osijek, Zagreb, Rijeka and Split. Namely, basic assumptions are created, or the ultimate assumption that the entire system in the framework of judicial reform is functioning as is evident from the reasoning of this law, i.e. from 1.1.2012. And there is no such thing as, what is said, to add especially what the distinguished representatives said on behalf of the clubs, and we had the opportunity to hear in individual debates. The second part of this law, of course, refers to the part that has been regulated by the regulation so far, and refers to additions to the salaries of judges. I think this is the only possible solution today, so the law regulates it, not only is it really legal matter, and what was regulated by the regulation, which has its own lifetime or period until when it applies. That deadline expired on 31.12 last year. So I absolutely support this bill, and I understand it as another of the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Resolute Ministry of Justice, to make these reform processes, which have begun to be completed in the best possible way. So this is about the completion of this part of the judicial reform, which is based on the reform of the administrative trial, this law itself and all those laws that we have passed so far, so all legal assumptions will be obtained, all the preconditions that this segment of the judiciary in its fullness is functioning in 1.1 next year. In that sense, once again support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66418	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66419	Secondly, the Final Proposal for the Law on Supplements to the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 701. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed and particularly explained the need for a return to some of the provisions of the final bill. This was manifested by the parent parliamentary committees, the Legislative Committee. In accordance with Article 154. Rules of Procedure, we will conclude whether there are particularly legitimate reasons for the reverse action of certain provisions. So who is behind the conclusion that there are particularly legitimate reasons for the return of certain provisions of the Law on Supplements to the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers? Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for this conclusion. The result? The conclusion was accepted by most votes, 99 votes for and 2 against. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers. Let's please get involved and vote on the bill. The result? The final bill was adopted unanimously by 98 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66420	Let's go to the next point - 3. Final proposal of the Law on a national preventive mechanism to prevent torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment, second reading, P.Z. No. 580 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, justice, human rights and the rights of national minorities. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Zoran Piculjan will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66421	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There is also another relatively short law before us, but the law that has the same complexness, I would say important content, because it is aimed at the implementation of convention law, at Croatian obligations in additional protection of persons who are deprived of freedom from all forms of torture and unworthy behavior. That is why this job, this important job is entrusted, and this task has been entrusted to one body that we have not been able to find a much better name, we have accepted in this second reading and the objection of the Legislator Committee, but this is what is almost a literal translation of the Conventional Law, but more importantly that this job, this task, is entrusted to the Attorney General, and to persons from the academic community and persons from the associations involved, NGOs who have been dealing with these, who for a long time, have experience in doing these jobs. In addition, in the discussion between the two readings we also accepted the opinions of the Club of HNS-HSU representatives and entered into this text and we think that in this way after a while we have finally one body that will report to the Croatian Parliament on all forms, we hope that there will be none, forms of unworthy and cruel behaviour that may appear here, I would say the weakest protected persons in our society. So, so much for the introduction, and I read about the amendment back then, so we'll make a statement if we need it later. I think some of them have grounds and that they might be accepted but leave us some time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66422	Thank you. The committees of legislation, justice, human rights and the rights of national minorities? I'm opening a debate. Ms. Mariana Petir's club of representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66423	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Madam and gentlemen of the State Secretary. The club of the representatives of the HSS will support the proposal of the Law on the National Prevention Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture and other cruel and non-human or humiliating procedures or penalties in order to determine the body to carry out in Croatia the tasks of the National Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture and to define the tasks necessary under this national mechanism for the execution and, in accordance with the Faculty Protocol, to the Convention against Torture and other non-human or humiliating procedures or penalties. The activities of the National Prevention Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture shall be carried out by the Ombudsman and by persons who, together with 2 representatives of the Associations registered in the field of protection of human rights and 2 representatives of the academic community. This model is known in many countries and our neighbours in Slovenia, but also in the Czech Republic, Spain, Denmark, Sweden, Estonia, Macedonia and other countries. And this law also defines the work of the National Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture. Namely, the National Prevention Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture should have the minimum powers to regularly examine the proceedings against persons deprived of liberty in places of detention, their protection against torture and other non-human or humiliating proceedings or punishment, which is why, as a job of the National Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture, there are certain and regular tours of places where those persons are or may be found persons deprived of liberty in order to strengthen their protection against torture and other cruel or inhumane and humiliating proceedings and punishment. The job of the National Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture is also to make recommendations to the competent authorities in institutions to improve the treatment of persons deprived of liberty and the conditions in which they are found to prevent torture and other cruel inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishments. Preventing and eradicating torture and inhumane treatment is also a priority for EU human rights policies. Torture and inhumane conduct are among the worst forms of human rights violations and menace to human dignity. Under the General Declaration of Human Rights, no one must be subjected to torture or cruel inhumane or humiliating proceedings or punishment. International law unconditionally prohibits all forms of torture and inhumane conduct, which means no exceptions are allowed. However, the practice of torture and inhumane conduct remains widespread worldwide. Many conflicts and tensions around the world have made different forms of torture present today and in their full intensity and diversity also include different populations of society and different countries. Torture today is the strongest instrument of power against democracy. Torture and other forms of inhumane conduct are particularly characteristic of closed societies where human rights are of little value. In such societies, repression is strongly directed towards individuals or certain groups of political, ethnic, religious ones. At the same time, the phenomenon of torture is not exclusively linked to closed societies. In countries with a multi-year democratic tradition of government, too, various forms of physical and psychological torture, harassment and inhumane treatment are often used to obtain recognition or some information. This was particularly expressed recently in the war in these areas where Serb aggressors used different methods of torture against prisoners, soldiers and civilians, especially in the camps they took them to, and that is for every conviction. The tortures in Serbian camps have survived many Croatian defenders, so it is incomprehensible for us in the HSS that Serbian authorities are now trying to judge these same defenders rather than at least apologize to them. No matter where we are or who we are, no matter what ethnic or cultural background, language or religion we are all united against torture in solidarity with victims and their families. It is a reminder that every day some people in the world are subjected to torture. It is also a reminder that these people, with appropriate support, can restore their lives despite the suffering of cruel hands of abusers. The club of HSS representatives will support the adoption of the Law on the National Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture and other cruel inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66424	Thank you. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66425	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the promoters, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing the final proposal of the National Prevention Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture and other cruel, inhuman and humiliating procedures or punishments, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has based on internationally undertaken commitments in the parliamentary procedure. Namely, signing a university protocol with the Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman and humiliating procedures or punishment of the Republic of Croatia is required to appoint one or several independent national mechanisms. This law not only enforces an international commitment but the establishment of a national mechanism to prevent torture represents a genuine strengthening of the protection of the rights of persons deprived of liberty. The law also lays down the authority responsible for the performance of the tasks of the National Prevention Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture, the tasks of the National Prevention Mechanism, the powers of the persons involved in the performance of the tasks of the National Prevention Mechanism shall be determined by the obligation to submit a report on the performance of the national preventive mechanism. The tasks of the national preventive mechanism shall be entrusted to the Ombudsman who prescribes the manner of operation of the national preventive mechanism or persons appointed by the Ombudsman, with the participation of two representatives of the organisations registered in the field of protection of human rights and the academic community, and professional persons may also be involved where appropriate. The appointed persons shall regularly examine proceedings against persons deprived of liberty, visit places where they are located to ensure payment for the effectiveness of preventing torture procedures and other cruel inhuman or humiliating punishment proceedings. They have the authority to unannounced arrivals in institutions, have the authority to access data freely. They also have an obligation to store as a secret personal data on persons deprived of liberty for whom they are called in the performance of the business. The law further lays down the obligation of the Ombudsman to produce and publish annual reports on the work of the national preventive mechanism and deliver them to the Croatian Assembly. In view of the fact that the application of the law requires the provision of preconditions, the adoption of an implementing regulation on the way of work, the appointment of representatives of associations and the academic community, the provision of all the necessary financial resources in the state budget for the performance of those operations, is subject to the question of the adequateness of the planned resources for 2011. On the basis of this, and given the meaning of the proposed law, I would like to point out that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this law in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66426	Thank you. HNS and HSU representatives' club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66427	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The university protocol with the Convention against Torture and other cruel inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment came into force in relation to the Republic of Croatia on 22 June 2006. To date, the Republic of Croatia has unfortunately failed to fulfil the international obligation to set up a body in accordance with the university protocol. This is why today we have this draft law in the procedure in order to determine the body to carry out the tasks of the national preventive mechanism in the Republic of Croatia and to define the tasks and powers of the same according to the Faculty Protocol. As further stated in the law, the tasks of the national preventive mechanism will be carried out by the Ombudsman and by the staff of the Office of the Ombudsman who, together with two representatives of the associations registered to carry out activities in the field of protection of human rights and by two representatives of the academic community. National preventive mechanisms should have the minimum powers to regularly examine procedures against persons deprived of liberty in places of detention in order to strengthen their protection against torture and other cruel inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment. The important task of the national preventive mechanism is to make proposals and objections to the laws and regulations of these draft laws and other regulations in order to promote the protection of persons deprived of freedom from torture and other cruel inhumane and humiliating proceedings and punishments. The obligation to cooperate with the UN subcommittee of national preventive mechanisms is also foreseen. The Advocate General will prescribe a way to carry out the tasks of the national preventive mechanism by special regulation. Under the proposal of this law, the obligations of persons participating in the performance of the national preventive mechanism are to keep personal data on persons deprived of freedoms they have learned in the performance of the business. Any tour of the place in which the persons deprived of liberty may be located shall consist of a record which shall be signed by all persons participating in the visit. The occupier warns and makes recommendations based on the facts familiar with the tour. The Ombudsman's obligation is to produce and publish an annual report on the performance of the national preventive mechanism and deliver it to the Croatian Assembly by 1 July of the current year. Further, the draft law sets out how the work of the national preventive mechanism is financed. We at the HNS Club, HSU look forward to accepting the proposals and opinions we have expressed, but we regret that the proposal is not accepted in Article 3 which should prescribe how often the national preventive mechanism is obliged to send reports on the work of the subcommittee. We see in the explanation that you said that the university protocol did not provide for the state of the parties to send reports on the work of the subcommittee, the subcommittee. But we think if it's not defined then it can and doesn't have to stand. That's why we're sorry we couldn't put it into this bill. And finally, the HNS Club, HSU will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66428	Thank you. SDP representative club Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66429	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on a National Prevention Mechanism to prevent torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating proceedings and penalties. However, we note that the adoption of one law on other international contracts, a convention of this kind or similar nature, does not mean anything but adoption. In fact, since we adopt these and similar acts, situations have worsened in many areas that these contracts regulate or prohibit certain behaviours. It's the same thing as bringing the law tomorrow that in the Republic of Croatia everyone will have a salary of at least 10 thousand kuna. Is that gonna happen? It is also similar to the adoption of such laws and ratification of international contracts. It reminds me of the magic and reminds me of some sort of banishment that, by passing the law, things will change. Unfortunately, it's not like that. Of course, the legal framework is needed and it is our responsibility to accept such good things, but it is the first step that only creates additional obligations of course and the obligation to provide certain means for the law to actually be implemented. Unserious thing for such a serious thing is to provide 100,000 kuna in two years. That's not good, especially when we see what our situation is in our penitentiary and our prisons. In fact, when we speak and express solidarity with various forms of torture, and even physical torture that we thought had gone along with the Middle Ages, and that in developed countries is causing us serious concerns and one empathy and compassion for these people. But when similar things don't take this kind of shape, but other forms of torture happen in our immediate vicinity, then we say, let him, that's what he deserved. That's not how it's supposed to be. We would be happy to help those we cannot help, and those we are invited to help have 1001 reasons, either we are uninterested or there is no means or such a person does not deserve it, even when we are legally obliged to do so. That this is the case and that such forms of torture are not only physical punishment, it is not just a Spanish boot from the Inquisition Age or aquaboarding which is unfortunately used in the United States in many federal states as a legal means of exorcision or recognition as crown evidence. We can't help but look back on this occasion at the report of the occupier who was invited here in one way to be the one to look at the situation. He's already looked at the situation, several times, almost every year. Once, it's so detailed that he's visited every cell, every room in the penitentiary and in prison, even in detention. He says complaints are even being discussed in 2008 and 2009 about the changeover, about 160% to 200%, says the situation is alarming and is causing a serious concern and a serious security problem in the Republic of Croatia. And what's changed since then? There's been a lot of changes up there so where we have 160% capacitation we now have 200 percent, where we had 200 percent, somewhere over 220 percent. He also says that it is necessary to keep in mind the information specified in the Constitutional Court's decision as early as 2008, that according to the standards of the European Committee on Crime Problems, which explain the recommendation of the so-called the concentration calculation of the total number of prisoners located in prisons, the concentration above 120% is considered critical. And that's why he concludes that precisely because of this re-accountation that the situation in our penitentiary is below human dignity. And that is what concerns and why the Republic of Croatia suffers condemnation in our Constitutional Court and suffers condemnation at the International Court of Human Rights which is therefore a reparation. Compensation of damages to such persons. These are now the amounts where we could in the good part advance in the construction of new penitentiary. However, according to the Council of Europe's recommendation, it also draws attention to the fact that building new prisons is not only a solution but that taking away freedom should be the last means and exceptions to the affirmation of alternative penalties and even for more serious delinquencies. Because then when one fama detention can't be an answer to everything, and that's a good reason, he's analyticalally speaking about it and the length of detention and even sometimes against the law or by overrunning many deadlines. He's talking about bad hygiene standards that humiliate a man. Because of the low capacity, the overcrowding and lack of frames that the squatters were reintroduced and that it was humiliating for the convicted person. It is beyond any doubt, especially if we are witnesses of people who have suffered in Yugoslav case files that almost identical things are repeated. Then it was intentional things to further humiliate a person, but it's not decisive what motives are when the same consequences are. We simply in the 21st century, regardless of the economic crisis, cannot endure the fact that there are bricks in our prison system because the guards or guards do not have enough to serve one by one convict. It's serious stuff. The occupier also talks about worsening health care, that people are very difficult to report because of the difficult conditions that experts would work there. And because they're severely ill, they put themselves in the same room with healthy people, and it's sick old people with very young people who came in healthy and who the state is obliged to fire from prison. These are serious problems and therefore there should be no more dilemmas or duplications. The European Committee for the Monitoring of Torture and Inhumane Humiliation and Treatment or Penalty concluded that the reasons for the merger and extension of accommodation in the Department of Enhanced Control were stereoty, to be repeated without sufficient assessment of the needs in each case, and there were also objections. And exactly the lack of that is the result of that is the lack of frame. The Constitutional Court's decision ordered the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adjust the capacity of prisons in Zagreb to the standards of the Council of Europe and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights which, for prisoners and detainees, will not be humiliating and eliminating the shortcomings in the regime of legal means in the system of enforcement of penalties. We regret to conclude that two years inmates were without proper judicial protection, and thus the achievement that was introduced in 2001 when we passed this modern law where we introduced the judication of the entire penal system, so by introducing a judge who would judge where he would not be left to the administrative part of the government. Fortunately, in 2009, changes were restored to those original changes, and the public defender speaks precisely about such one wandering and inadmissible experimentation with such a single population. And what else to say about this. So, when we have a good law in place, regardless of these changes that have occurred and happily returned to our Penal Code, we now have and this I believe that by consensus, or aclamation, we will adopt this final bill that we are now discussing against torture and humiliating proceedings and punishment. But it is a serious suspicion, this is what the Ombudsman is telling the public that it is hard to believe that certain provisions that we have adopted so far as they are positive, even mentioning that provision that minors should not interfere with adulthood. This was large discussions and problems and its observations that in due course they could not be respected under existing conditions. So, regardless of what the law on probation has certainly brought, there is also a positive shift, but there is also one overcrowding, and at the end of that overcrowding is also the consequences of a better city, there is no doubt about our repressive organs and bodies. But this has become a serious problem that here's what the attorney general says is that it becomes a national problem, a security problem. So they weren't rare countries. We had France, we had it somewhere in the mid-1990s and in Croatia about prison riots, and then that's after. So it's one fire that's hard to get rid of. Therefore, these specific means should be allocated in a very reasonable time with these laws, but also with the Law on Testing can come to an acceptable solution and that then these laws that we pass will really not remain a dead letter on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66430	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66431	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Here is the final proposal for a law on a national preventive mechanism for preventing and torturing and other cruel inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment. Unfortunately, in the world of such phenomena as are already in the name of this Law, there is still a point, and I would say that not only in the undeveloped part of the world but even in the often highly developed countries, and we have witnessed back twenty years of war in our fields that, so to say, the imagination of these phenomena was truly surprising. Unfortunately, our defenders were the most exposed. It is no wonder, therefore, that the United Nations, that they have adopted the Convention in the order that has been adopted, and this university protocol under which we adopt this Law and here is the second reading of this Law. The adoption of such a law is also very important for the Republic of Croatia, among other things, because it is important to enhance or improve one image of the protection of human rights in each country, so of course in the Republic of Croatia. And it is good to approach the adoption of such a law regardless of the delay prescribed by some previously accepted commitments. The first reading of this law was about six and a half months ago, so on July 8, last year. Since then, enough time has passed for certain things to be done, to prepare some things, to agree on the views of all those who have the means of saying interest or have any obligation to follow this Law. Therefore, I must say it in addition to this Law on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of Minority, a public defender who is apostrophe in this law as the first body or first body to work on the implementation of this Law. So it also gives us an indication and a series of certain amendments that, according to its interpretation, would improve the adoption of such a law. Unfortunately, though, I have to say that I do not understand why this kind of communication between the ministry, that is, between the government when it was adopted or some government bodies and the attorney general he expressed on the Committee on Human Rights was in some kind of trouble or in some kind of interruption. So here's the sequence of what's said here, so that some kind of agreed version, since the public defender took part in the preparation and this proposal differs in some detail. I think it could have been done better and better quality and so to speak in the interest of both parties and other interested parties. Because both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Public Advocate as well as the one who should implement the most of this, so this Law in this preventive mechanism could be quite satisfied with the proposal. I will also look back here at a few technical details of this Law which are partly and by the occupier's point, but also to me, they're not exactly logical. So here is if the first article says that a body which is therefore responsible for performing the tasks of the national preventive mechanism is determined then I see no reason why this formulating the concept of the body in this second article is somewhat divorce or seems rather unclear because it is said that the tasks of the national preventive mechanism are being carried out, so the public defender and the person in his office. For me, the concept of the vacancy attorney was never exclusively related to the person, the physical person of the occupier, and I don't think it's for the other MPs, since every year we have a report from the vehicular attorney, and we never took it as a person's report, but his office. Now it's said here that he and the people in his office will perform. In addition, two persons registered by the representatives of the associations to carry out activities in the field of protection of human rights and two representatives of the academic community. After all, even after previous discussions, it is the Office of the Attorney General or the Advocate General as some kind of legal person who implements this Act and is in charge of doing business. And everything else basically comes down to it, because here in a sixth article, for example, says that the attorney general prescribes a way of working... the mechanism, etc. What was the problem then calling that body, I don't know how to say that the occupier is therefore entrusted with the implementation of this law, so let's put it this way and express ourselves in Article 2. The next thing I know it's personal, I said it there on the board is very, so to speak, elastically, is an article 5 of the mandate, which, let's say right in the first paragraph, says that the persons involved in doing the jobs... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The mechanisms shall have the power to make unannounced visits to bodies or institutions, and shall examine the premises in which persons are deprived of liberty. [[You don't understand.]] Of course I don't mind that anywhere, wherever there are any signs of such events, you should come in unannounced, control everything else. However, if this is how we say that the persons involved in the conduct of the business, and we see that we have an attorney-general, so I follow your definition in Article 2, we have an attorney-general, we have persons from his office, we have four persons from whom, therefore, there is any coordination, or every person in this alone follows how you wrote it, each person on his own can come at any time of the day and night unannounced to any place, including all Croatian prisons, and control what is the situation. I have to say, even the colleagues who replicated it said that, of course, I wrote as an agent and asked to see some prisons. You wrote and searched, but it's not unannounced. So there's some kind of coordination. So all this goes on, again from the fact that the body didn't formulate itself as if the office of the attorney general and the attorney general. Likewise, I have mentioned Article 6 which says that the way of work is prescribed, and here in the article, just a second, it is said that the Ombudsman chooses by these two members, whether there is any procedure, I suppose it is said on the basis of proposals from the academic community and these associations. If there's a procedure, if a contest is called, if there's a call from a public defender or who. So the law of some elemental matter divorces or at least makes it unclear. So if you say that the body is the attorney general... Some other people, it must always be unambiguously clear what a body is. [[You don't understand.]] Mr. Secretary of State who was on the board was at one point saying the body was a mechanism. I told him, since I'm an engineer by profession that the mechanism can be a body but only technically, when it's connected to some more serious machine, but the mechanism is still some kind of means in this case as prescribed here, how it will prevent such ugly phenomena. And in the end, not to mention, the financial framework of the Ombudsman's work in implementing this law, I would not say, but I would remind myself that even in the course of the report by the Ombudsman, the general and the report on the implementation of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, it was pointed out that certain financial frameworks in which the Office of the Attorney General works are very limited to say or too small to do a good part of the work. I hope we don't pass the law on this occasion and limit its implementation by small means, because it is neither the goal nor I assume the intensity of the legislator of this law. I would ask you to read the proposal for amendments to the occupier, as well as the Committee on Human Rights, and if there is any possibility of adoption, because they are on the verge of improving this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66432	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66433	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I will support the Final Proposal of the Law on a national preventive mechanism to prevent torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment, primarily as a further civilizational shift in ensuring and preventing the protection of fundamental human rights, in this case the most vulnerable persons, and these are persons deprived of liberty. Further to the adoption of this law, Croatia has fulfilled its obligation from international, ratified international documents, and thus, in addition to the Convention against Torture and other cruel non-human and humiliating procedures or punishments entered into force in 2006 in relation to the Republic of Croatia, with a statement by the Republic of Croatia on the delay of the obligation to introduce independent national mechanisms, for a period of 3 years. So here's the time for us to do this international commitment. So by passing this law we further ensure the prevention, that is, the prevention of torture or inhumane behavior in persons deprived of liberty, and here we should say that this law has also defined the concept of persons deprived of liberty, so as persons who are determined to have any detention, detention or housing in a place under public supervision, which this place cannot leave on their own. It should be pointed out that this is not just about prisons, because we usually always think about prisons when we also talked about the supervision of the occupier in relation to persons deprived of liberty, this includes prisons and detentions, penitentiary facilities, investigative prisons, and forced accommodation in health and other institutions, in the event of the determination of a mandatory treatment measure. As regards the establishment of a body, it is good that this law stipulates that the national preventive mechanism, that persons performing the tasks of that national preventive mechanism will be a public defender, and persons in the office of the Ombudsman, always with two representatives of the associations registered to carry out activities in the field of protection of human rights and two representatives of the academic community. This law and provided for the way in which the Ombudsman will appoint persons from the ranks of the academic community, so the law stipulates that it will be on the proposal of the very group and on the basis of a public call. It therefore also determines that it will be able to hire a public defender and other professionals independently and include them in these matters. As for the very name of the mechanism itself, I would agree with my colleague that when I say it also associates me with a technical device with wheels and springs and so on, but we have been given the reason that a better expression given the expression of international documents could not be found in Croatian, although it does not seem to me in the spirit of Croatian language. And even in his explanation, the promoter said that he had adopted the comments of the Committee on Law in terms of title, but the objections did not go in terms of preventive or curative but they went in terms of the mechanism, so here I trust the promoter that a more similar word could not be found, so we, it is important that we know what is under that thought. I would say that this law gives stronger mechanisms to the public defender and to this body that will work as a body or as part of the body as this law provides, as further tasks of this National Prevention Mechanism show that the Explicite Law states that the tours will require participation with the ombudsman and representatives of associations, or representatives of the academic community, and in these other affairs this will not be necessary. So what it means is that a public defender in that sense can act on his own. What is important is that this law gives the body or mechanism the right to prevent national ones from making unannounced visits, to have free access. These are great powers, not small powers. Therefore, free access to data on bodies and institutions, data on the number of persons deprived of liberty, data on persons, of course they are all obliged to keep the confidentiality of data, the personal data they learn in the performance of their work, and also, after a visit, then draw up a report. This report, if they have encountered irregularities, shall be notified by the body in which they have found it or the institution, and then by the authority responsible for supervision, and shall then be alerted and made recommendations, shall verify and have the right to verify whether the institutions and bodies have acted by order and ultimately, if they do not inform the Croatian Parliament thereof. So, the final sanction is the submission of the Report of Irregularities to the Croatian Assembly with the regular annual report submitted by this body to the Croatian Parliament by July 1st. I would say, there have been a lot of speeches, and we have had this in the reports of the public defender of boredom, so the report on the situation in prisons and penitentiary facilities in the Republic of Croatia, where there has been a lot of talk about pre-recipientation and truth about the problem of re-recipientation, is not a specific problem for Croatia, and many countries and developed EU countries are struggling with it. I have already mentioned that I recently read the book of a Swedish author who speaks of the transfer of prisons to Sweden as a wealthy country where he ended up being a journalist for 3 months in prison for libel. Here, so we do not bother ourselves with this, but I must say, and my colleague spoke in the debate and often boasts that in 2001 the most modern law on the execution of prison sentences was passed, probably and only realizes that it is necessary to adopt a legislative framework and that it should be passed, but that it is not easy to always provide for the implementation of such a law, and in 2001 a law was passed which provided for standards that were above the average of Europe, but was not parallelly provided. It's not true that it's getting worse all these years, and mainly over the last few years, funds have increased dramatically, budgets for prisons and penitentiary facilities, and these standards are increasing. Of course, always in accordance with the budgetary possibilities, and of course parallel laws are passed, for example, the Law on Prosecution which then provides for alternative sanctions that are often and more effective and more educationally acting for the perpetrators, convicted perpetrators of criminal acts. Here, but because this mechanism will ensure additional control, that is, prevention of any humiliating procedures and torture of persons deprived of liberty, I support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66434	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66435	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mrs. Lovrin, I see that we in the debates are quite a match, to say the same. The more I saw from your discussion that you didn't understand that body either, because you said twice to the attorney general and the people who were going to work with him there. The concept of the body, that's why I've focused on the amendments that have been passed on the board, the law would be where it can go, and there's no reason why it can't, should be explicit. It is proposed to say that the tasks of the National Prevention Mechanism are carried out by the Ombudsman and the next item says that there must be 2 of these at the mandatory time. So, it's not that, we agree on this – this is a very important topic and we agree on the adoption of this law. My debate was aimed at improving the law, which was more pronounced. However, if you write in Article 5 that individuals have the authority of unannounced tours anyone can read as they please. If I'm experiencing circumstances, here I am on the board, I'm a member of the Academic Community, and I report as such myself or someone suggests me from my university, etc., and I get into it, does that mean that I could, when I feel the need or when I hear something that there's a reason to go to prison in Osijek and control what is the situation? Or there should be some kind of coordination within the Office of the Attorney General who will define because unannounced must not mean that it is unannounced for a person, therefore individually. In that sense, I put in a questionnaire and said that it was a very elastic formulation of the article of the authority of the persons performing that duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66436	Answer to Mrs. Ana Lovrin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66437	Thank you very much. Well, it's really me in the debate, and I said that the law in some, some article explicite states who, for example, in the tours must be someone with an attorney in the line of association and the academic community at least one, then to conclude that it doesn't always have to be, so all appointed persons who will perform the tasks of the national preventive mechanism. But our dilemma, mine and yours, I believe it will solve Article 6 of the law. This Article gave power to the Advocate General to prescribe the way in which the national preventive mechanism works. So then, with this act, the Attorney General will prescribe within what is regulated by the law in more detail how and how the national preventive mechanism will work and when any member will have any authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66438	Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66439	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary and State Secretary. Therefore, before us, the Law on a national preventive mechanism to prevent torture and other cruel inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishments is therefore proposed to establish jobs and to designate a body competent to carry out these tasks. The adoption of this law, as stated in the debate, stems from the obligation that we, as a state, have made to the Faculty Protocol with the Convention against Torture and other cruel non-human or humiliating proceedings of January 2005, and which law we confirmed in June 2006 has entered into force. This law proposes that these tasks of the national preventive mechanism be carried out by the Ombudsman and by persons from his office who, together with two representatives of the Associations registered to carry out activities in the field of protection of human rights, and by two representatives of the academic community. They, as proposed by the law, would be named on the basis of a public call for the proposal of authorised associations, i.e. on the proposal of high schools, by public defenders. Among other things, they would have the authority to examine the treatment of persons deprived of liberty in order to strengthen their protection against torture, or other humiliating procedures, which would establish regular tours of places where they are or could be found of persons deprived of liberty, so that they may tour police stations, investigative prisons, prisons and penitentiary facilities, juvenile prisons, psychiatric institutions, etc. other institutions. I think it is important to point out in public what the Minister of Justice has been talking about so far in the prison system that no torture, punishment or any other inhumane acts against persons deprived of liberty have been recorded. Of course, the fact that the prison system has been converted into a prison system that is mentioned today in the debates can be undermined by some kind of inhumane act, but I think it is affecting a broader problem, a broader debate that is not just the subject of this law that is before us. It should be said that so far persons deprived of freedom have enjoyed the protection of their fundamental rights established by the Constitution, law and international contracts. And so far, acts of punishment have been banned and that would be abused or subjected to any kind of torture. Also so far, supervision of the handling of detainees or prisoners by the Ministry of Justice has been carried out by the Ombudsman, NGOs, and the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture of the Council of Europe. Prisoners are also provided with judicial protection of rights in such a way that a judge can apply for judicial protection against the decision of the administrator or for protection against illegal proceedings. And here's a series of issues, given that it's a law by which the Republic of Croatia fulfils the international obligation to further improve the protection of persons deprived of liberty, I will support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66440	Thank you. Final review of Secretary of State Zoran Piculjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66441	Thank you very much. Thank you all for this fruitful really long debate and one short law but obviously important law. What can be said is that this whole argument that has been made from all sides and all aspects of the surveillance of the criminal system and the prison system and all those institutions where the persons are deprived of freedoms actually points to the need to adopt this additional need to adopt this law and this is a good legislative framework. He is not perfect in his statement, but by analysing the amendments submitted by the Committee on Human Rights, we will particularly analyse the 2nd amendment closely, and then we will respect all the arguments before the vote... with great chances of him accepting it, but please have more time to discuss it. And in the creation of this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and its representatives worked in the first reading and in the second reading together with the Ombudsman and the office. We don't do it by chance, sometimes there's an instinct between the Attorney General and the Attorney General's Office. I think that through Amendment 2, we're going to respond quite well to all these remarks that have been made here and end with one law that will be acceptable and enforceable, which is most important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66442	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I interrupt the session, resume tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law of Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66443	We move to point 3, the Final Proposal of the Law on the National Prevention Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture and Other Cruel Inhuman or Demeaning Procedures or Penalty, that was a second reading, P.Z. Number 580. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the proposed amendments, Mr. Zoran Piculjan. Here you go, Secretary of State. Amendment 1, which applies, which reads, there is no article here, please make the amendment known.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66444	Amendment 1. The government does not accept, as the proposed name of the law is more legally justified in the dictation given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66445	Thank you. On behalf of the board, Mr. Board President, Mr. Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66446	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, the amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities indicates more precisely what the body should be, so that I would leave Parliament to decide on it and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66447	Thank you. Who's up for this one? On the amendments, I ask that we vote by raising our hands, still, to save whatever time we have. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66448	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The government accepts, but not in a statement, repairs it in a small nomotechnic, small nomotechnic manner, as the applicant has given it. I'd read it myself. So content doesn't change anything, it just changes the article labels. Article 2 is amended as follows: "The affairs of the national preventive mechanism shall be carried out by the Advocate General. Two representatives of the organisations registered to carry out activities in the field of protection of human rights and two representatives of the academic community are required to participate in the activities of the national preventive mechanism, along with the Ombudsman." Paragraph 2: "The representatives referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be appointed by the Advocate General on a proposal from the Associations registered to carry out activities in the field of protection of human rights, i.e. high universities, on the basis of a public call." Paragraph 3: "In the performance of the tasks of the national preventive mechanism, the Ombudsman shall include, where appropriate, other independent experts in accordance with Article 18(2) of the Faculty Protocol."
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66449	This means that it is practical that only these items are complemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66450	... It actually fits the meaning of our amendment, so then we accept it. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66451	So this amendment was accepted in a statement that the secretary of state had read. It becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment 3 to Article 6
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66452	Amendment 3 to Article 6 with the same explanation as the previous Government accepts and gives it in the following, but proposes it no-technically in the following statement: "The Ombudsman shall prescribe the procedure for the appointment and mode of operation of representatives of organisations registered in the field of protection of human rights, representatives of the academic community and experts referred to in paragraphs 1 and 3 of this law."
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66453	If so, only items have been changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66454	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-26-0.u66455	The third amendment has also been accepted, becoming an integral part, as the secretary of state has read. Please, I am voting on: The final proposal of the Law on a national preventive mechanism to prevent torture and other cruel inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously, with 100 votes, along with amendments adopted.
