ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75386	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes amendments and additions to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. The original Law on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly adopted in September 2007 and in the last 4 years how far the Law has been in force through its implementation, we can say that it has extremely well conceived the system of spatial planning in the Republic of Croatia and that, in the very application of this Act, the coverage of cities, counties and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia has been fully implemented with strategic documents, which we hold to be an exceptional contribution to the systematic urban arrangement in Croatia and that this fact that units of local, regional and regional self-government have adopted basic strategic documents in accordance with this Act. I said I contributed greatly to the arrangements of the Croatian space as the most important economic resource in the Republic of Croatia. However, during these 4 years alone, the implementation of the basic Act through the adoption of a number of spatial plans of urban planning of cities and municipalities, through the great first-degree and second-degree practice in the issue of building acts, clearly we have seen certain irregularities in the law and certain legal indetermination, which is what we wanted to do now, through the adoption of this Law, and we wanted to do so on the one hand, and on the other hand, we wanted to speed up and simplify certain procedures that would not violate the spatial essence of the law, and this is further protection of space on the one hand and work on the systematicity of spatial arrangement in the Republic of Croatia. The approach in which we wanted to simplify the procedure and speed up the adoption of works to build part was one of the guidelines and objectives of the Government's Action Plan to remove barriers to investment in the Republic of Croatia, and I think that on this very trail we have reached shorter deadlines that were prescribed in these amendments and the additions of the Law on the adoption of spatial planning documents and that these amendments will also enable a simpler and faster procedure for the completion of building acts which I think will contribute to faster investment in the Republic of Croatia on the one hand, and on the other hand, that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia who intends to come up with appropriate acts and solutions that come out of this Act will really facilitate the process itself to take such acts. When we start making amendments and supplementing the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, I must say that we have held a whole series of meetings, meetings, discussions with all professional organisations in the Republic of Croatia from associations of architects, urbanists, chamber of authorised building engineers and geodesys, chamber of architects, with associations of cities, municipalities and counties, state geodesy, etc. So, with the amendments and additions to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, we included all relevant institutions and certainly civil organisations that thus contributed to the democratic development of the amendments and addition of the Law on Spatial Planning. With the amendments to the Law, we settle the following questions, so in the first order we want to make the system of spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia simpler and more flexible. THAT simplicity and flexibility is reflected in the fact that, through the reduction of deadlines and the maximum deadlines allowed under certain stages, I would say when all those deadlines that have been reduced are about 210 days to reduce the process of making and adopting spatial plans and their changes and additions. We have also, through the amendments and additions of this law, reduced the need to draw up a number of spatial plans, facilitated their funding and speeded up as I have told them to adopt them. Then we enabled the shortening of the process of issuing local permits and other acts to implement documents of spatial planning, building acts, and use of buildings and their changes and additions. In order to illustrate this with concrete examples, I will say that, for example, at the time of the entry of the local authorisation, we have allowed the applicant of the local authorisation to obtain specific conditions before the location permit is issued and it is not necessary for this procedure to be carried out by the body issuing the local authorisation in such a way that we have enabled the quick entry of the local authorisation. Furthermore, through the adoption of spatial planning documents, we wanted to enable the local self-government unit to come up with such a plan as... the arrangements plans and detailed arrangements to be made available to the local self-government unit when developing a specific urban planning of the arrangement, which includes a narrow coverage of the one envisaged by the spatial plan of the wider area. In this way, it can be said that we are also for individual investors and units of local self-government, which have allowed investors to work the implementation of spatial documents only for a particular part of the area, which is, for example, envisaged and which is narrower than the one envisaged by the spatial plan of the municipality, i.e. the city. Furthermore, when we talk about speeding up the adoption of spatial plans, we have found that, for the precise targeted changes to a given spatial plan or a particular business plan, we do not need to carry out a previous debate, which also speeds up the adoption of a spatial... documents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, we have made it possible for investors to finance the adoption of certain spatial arrangements implementing documents, clearly based on a contract with a local self-government unit, when the funds necessary and necessary for the construction of a specific urban planning plan or a detailed planning plan are paid to the unit of local self-government, but the procedure is shortened because it is not necessary to implement the Public Procurement Act, which also significantly accelerates the process itself to adopt spatial-planned documents. Furthermore, we wanted to do so with this law, but this will be likely to be a talk in the debate itself, to enable further decentralisation in the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, in a way that in the protected coastal area of the sea we have made possible and given the mayors consent to the implementation documents of the spatial arrangement, such as urban planning and detailed planning of the arrangement. This was the subject of debate in professional organizations, I hear, and yesterday there was a debate in the Parliament itself, on parliamentary bodies. It is our reflection, and this will be clearly the subject of this debate today, that after the central state body, i.e. the ministry, gives consent to the county spatial plans, in the protected coastal area, and after the ministry has given its consent to the spatial planning of urban and municipal arrangements, then the mayor can, by virtue of such powers as this law allows him to agree on the implementation documents of spatial arrangements, such as urban planning and detailed arrangements. I say it can be clear, it will certainly be a matter of debate, the more our ministry's experience, somewhere around 30% of the detailed plans and urban plans of the arrangement, the more the mayor's decision has changed on such documents. So clearly it can indeed be the subject of the debate itself, but we believe that when we give the mayor more responsibility, because it is in the process of adopting an urban plan of regulation and a detailed plan of his decision that his decision will, in any case, contribute to the greater responsibility of the unit of regional self-government, and when such documents are made. There is a clear and reflection that this provision continues to be, the provision continues to leave the obligation to finally agree on the implementation plans of the arrangements being adopted by the competent ministry. Furthermore, we have prescribed that these amendments and amendments to the law, that the minister will adopt a regulation that will allow public tendering for the selection of ideas as an expert basis, which we hold very important for certain implementation documents of spatial arrangement, such as urban planning and detailed arrangements plans. I think we're going to contribute to further quality valorisation of space. We also predicted that the provisions of the price list of the chambers of authorised architects should be introduced in the law, thus protecting the quality of the production of spatial planning documents and project documentation. It is clear that such a provision should also be considered under the Public Procurement Act, so here I hope that we will also bring into the debate and hear different reflections. Furthermore, these amendments to the laws create assumptions for the regulation of a number of buildings, whose construction does not require the establishment of a local permit, i.e. for construction, and these buildings will be determined under the law by the Minister by adopting a rule on simple buildings. These amendments to the law also provide for a number of cases where the form of a building particle can be established, i.e. the land necessary for the regular use of the building itself, without necessarily carrying out any construction works on that building particle. What we also believe will speed up the implementation of the investment to the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the investor, whether it is a unit of local self-government, and whether it is a private investor, is the possibility that a contract between a unit of local self-government and an investor or a group of investors and, by means of a contract between the holder of other infrastructures needed to edit the building land and the investor will sign a contract which will obligate the investor to bring the necessary infrastructure for the construction land. The contract can then clearly establish the obligation to pay, on behalf of the costs that investors will have to invest and municipal infrastructure in the construction area, a clearly compensated amount of municipal contribution, and a water contribution which is required to pay to the local self-government unit of a single investor when carrying out construction in the Republic of Croatia. Perhaps, here for the end, I would also like to take a clear look at the statements made in public these days, which relate to the establishment of accommodation facilities in T1 and T2 tourist areas. I would like to make it clear, immediately, that the existing law which is in force, so the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction has enabled and allowed for construction to be established, buildings that serve exclusively accommodation in the Republic of Croatia, and this has been evident for the past 4 years, on several occasions, by both local self-government and interested investors. So with regard to the possibility of enrolling accommodation units in T1 and T2 tourist areas, the current law does not prevent such an internship. Otherwise, the sale of certain accommodation units... villas or apartments in T1 and T2 zones are not defined by the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction but by the Law on Property and Other Real Rights and the Law on Mandatory Relations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it is not possible to resolve this regulation with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. But what this law defines is a clearer and more detailed explanation, an explanation of how and how the original law allows it to be implemented in zones T1 and T2. And in doing so, we said that it does not change the purpose of this facility, and the villa or this apartment, it remains for tourist purposes, its purpose is still touristic and cannot be changed by the fact that a particular object is kept on. So it's on one side. And on the other hand, we said that it is not possible to perform an internship in these areas in such a way that the basic criteria for hotel or villa representation in certain areas can be changed, which means that the number of accommodation units can not be increased in a particular tourist zone, which could then be further recorded. These are two very important settings that we have defined with the Ministry of Tourism so that it would not just happen that certain tourist zones become residential areas. So, through the internship process, there is no talk of the possibility of repurposeing the tourist zone in the residential area. The possibility of staging allows investors to provide funds for further investment in the tourist zone, to increase the quality of services in a particular tourist zone and it does not contribute to further apartmentisation or concreteisation of the coast. However, the self-editation system itself, the spatial arrangement in the Republic of Croatia is defined so that any additional construction in the Republic of Croatia is possible only through changes in spatial-planned documents that are within the jurisdiction of the unit of local self-government. Therefore, the fact that a particular zone will be able to be established stems from the basic law, but only in the section relating to accommodation units, and these amendments and additions to the law are simplified by the statement of how and how it is possible to continue and protect the basic purpose, and it is touristic. Which means that this facility, which would eventually be established and then legalised, must continue to be touristic purposes and should not be allowed to increase the number of accommodation facilities at the expense of the facilities serving as a catering and tourist activity, should not be allowed. So here I want to make it clear here in the parliamentary debate that the amendments to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction are absolutely not going to further apartmentisation or I do not know the concreteisation of the Croatian coast, i.e. the space treated as a protected coastal area of the sea. Here, I would like, given that here I am familiar with the debate that was led on the parliamentary committees clearly accepted as suggestions for a second reading of those proposals that go to an even more high-quality content of the text itself, but I believe that later and after the debate in the final statement we will show ourselves at the remarks that were made in yesterday's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75387	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, Ms. Marina Matulović Dropulić, chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75388	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At its 47th session held on 15 June, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction discussed the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on Spatial Regulation, which was submitted by the Prime Minister on 9 June 2011. The Committee discussed the draft law in question on the basis of Article 83. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the proposed amendments and additions to the applicable Law on Spatial Planning and Construction improves the text in part of the identified ambiguities and indeterminates in the pronunciation, complements the provisions in part of legal voids, complements or corrects provisions which affect the possibility of the implementation of certain institutes of other laws further harmonizes with the Internal Market Services Directive and the Fire Protection Act. It is estimated that these interventions can meet those obligations without changing the concept of the law, i.e. achieving the objective of the existing law. In particular, institutions for the management of buildings and construction without, or contrary to the act of the competent authority on the basis of which it is possible to access buildings which in practice fail to resolve the situation in space sufficiently, which is why they are set up and a different solution will be proposed. You have seen that the second item of the agenda is the Law on the Legalisation of Individual Objects, so this law takes that part out and proposes in a special law. In addition to the draft law, it provides for the simplification and acceleration of the process of drawing up spatial planning documents, the reduction of the number of implementation spatial plans, facilitating the financing of their production and strengthening of the role and responsibilities of the counties in the organisation and protection of the coastal area in the part of the spatial planning implementation documents. Also, pre-conditions are created to prescribe a number of buildings and works that can be built, or performed without a local authorisation under the Simple Objects Regulation. The basis of the provision of the bill facilitates the change in the purpose of the building and introduces a solution to change of purpose in the case in which it does not require construction work to be carried out, e.g. In certain business areas where there was a store, and now a hairdresser or something. The possibility of carrying out public tenders for the selection of idea projects and professional solutions of spatial planning implementation documents is also prescribed, facilitating the preparation of documentation necessary for the issue of local and building and adoption acts, in particular the procedures for amending or supplementing these permits and acts, and increasing the efficiency of construction and urban inspection and the affirmation of the principle of full and true data in land books and the principle of trust in land books, thereby significantly increasing legal security in real estate transport. In a broad discussion following the basic discussion, it is pointed out that the proposed establishment of tourist buildings can only be accepted with the provision of the inability to change the purpose of such a building and that there is a provision for the maintenance and management of the premises of all co-owners of the building and parcel in the area of catering tourism purposes. That is what Mr. Minister also spoke of, and this will clearly improve that part. Furthermore, in the debate, it is pointed out that in the protected coastal area, the distance of possible construction should be maintained in the manner provided for by the current Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. to keep the minimum distance in which new buildings can be planned or built within 100 metres of the coastal line. The members of the Committee expressed their view that it is not supported to delete the provisions of the applicable Law which regulate the compliance of projects when they are not made by the same designer, or provisions that prescribe that, in the event that the main project has not been developed by an idea project designer, the investor is obliged to design an idea project before the application for approval of the main project or building permit is submitted to the main project or part of it to give an opinion on the compliance of the main project with the idea project. The same applies to a provision which provides that, in the event that the implementation project has not been developed by a project designer who is obliged to the project’s project designer before the start of the construction or implementation of certain works, the implementation project or part thereof to give an opinion on the compliance of the implementation project with the main project and that, in the case of non-compliance, the same is to be delivered to the competent administrative authority or the Ministry. It is also estimated that it is not a good provision allowing county offices for spatial planning and the Institute of the City of Zagreb no longer to create spatial plans of cities and municipalities and urban planning of the arrangements, which have been trained professionally to carry out these psols over the past period. It is particularly important for small municipalities that do not have the means to make plans through third parties to make them county institutions that they do not have to pay for. The majority of the members of the Committee also do not support the obligation of pyremony and adherence to the price list of public procurement chambers and engineers to produce documents of spatial order, projects and other documents for a number of reasons, for which one mandatory application of the Public Procurement Act is but also the inability of fiscally weaker units of local self-government to finance the necessary documents of spatial order at such a far higher cost and not certain that quality will be better. And after the debate was held, the Committee decided unanimously with 9 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the following conclusion: The draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on spatial planning and construction in the first reading is adopted. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75389	Thank you. Is he still interested in the board? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75390	Mr. President, Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. First of all, I absolutely don't know why this is P.Z.E. Why this one carries the law of that European mark. If you want to cancel the first and second readings, and to speed up some construction procedures, that's okay, if you want to go round-the-clock on what's going on now, then I think it would just be a disaster. However, I will look more at this building by the sea here. The minister himself has just quoted what are the basic issues that are being regulated by this law, so it says here that the inability to participate in the creation of documents of spatial arrangement of persons in the capacity, etc., modifying the conditions for planning and use of space in the protected area of the sea in other areas is regulated by the implementation of a public tender for selecting an idea project, a professional solution, a reduction of the number of implementation plans ok. The deadlines are shortened by removing excessive procedures in the process of drawing up and adopting spatial plans absolutely in order, the authority to give consent to the adoption of implementing plans in the protected coastal area of the sea from the ministry to the mayors. I think it would be better for the county assembly to hang a higher transparency and so forth. There are other questions now that I just don't read it. Once again, I will say if this law simplifies the procedure, then it should be absolutely welcomed, if this law would make it difficult to go through construction and other permits, then such a law should be challenged. However, here in this law, on pages 3 and 4, let me quote it literally says that given the above-mentioned issues that are regulated by the proposed law, the following consequences of the adoption of the Law are expected, simplification and acceleration of the process of drawing up and adopting documents, reduction of the number of implementation spatial plans, strengthening the role and responsibilities of the County, then more appropriate management of the use of certain parts of the protected coastal area, etc. And indeed, anyone who wants to get a chance to build in this country needs to meet that person. In two years, the construction sector has lost 50,000 jobs in Croatia. In two years, the number of investments in the Republic of Croatia in the construction sector from about 50 billion kuna fell to 30 billion, which they will say we lost nearly 20 billion kunas of certain projects. In the last three years, the number of foreign investments has been even more dramatic in 2008, which amounted to over 4 billion euros in 2009, amounting to around 2 billion euros in 2010, only 460m euros. So we must encourage this process between other and flexible legislation. If only the value of last year's investments with 50 billion kuna from last year fell to 30 billion kuna, that means it didn't circulate 20 billion kuna, that means thousands, thousands of people without a job, that means that the state has lost 5 billion kuna on the basis of VAT alone, without one billion contributions, etc. Those who simply don't realize it, those who in that part would not support the amendments to the law, are not well-intentioned. Here two days ago there was an opening of the Istrian Ipsilon, I was in Bjelovar that day, it doesn't matter. I come showing up one insert in 3. The journal, Cain v. And that's right, we were against it. On several occasions they even blocked the maintenance of traffic because they wanted to introduce us to a fast road payment that is nowhere in Croatia at that time, and they will probably never pay. If that hadn't been done, they would have simply paid for what others didn't pay. But let's let it go now, aside from what our fathers, our mothers, our Istrians, all who were in the 1970s worked out for that tunnel being paid for. Others who were employed in Croatia singled out one diary. Why did I mention an ipsylon? Because, first of all, I'm asking a state that doesn't even give a kuna to continue that facility to solve as much as possible before property legal relations, because after the end of these works, surely 200, 300 craftsmen will not have a job, they have nothing to do, and that means thousands of people will simply be on ice, not to mention the accompanying activities of the mechanics who fix machines, caterers, etc., etc. So once again I say we need one flexible building infrastructure. When I talk about infrastructure here, I mean first of all the law. So we also need that law I'm going to call him about legalizing the illegal construction that will be discussed after this. Although I agree that it is not the same to legalise the house where you live and a tourist facility, it is not the same to legalise that family house you live in and the cottage, but it is worth approaching. Clearly these people need to pay a certain fee, some rules need to be clearly respected here. And it would be good to know how many MPs, ministers have also been building on this building since the '90s without the necessary building documentation. However, what I absolutely challenge what the minister, the president of the club for spatial planning, is this the staging of tourist facilities, tourist houses anyway, which is why I am afraid because it leads to the breaking of an existing tourist product, it leads to a huge wealth of chosen ones and I think that after that our tourist product will be not comparablely worse than it is today. So once again, I'm absolutely 100% against standing by the sea of these tourist facilities. Mr. Minister, the money that will be collected will not be directed to tourism, no, but will be dominantly directed into the banks or private pockets. By converting these entities that are now the owners of these hotel houses, we've enabled that original robbery, and now we're going to use this internship to enable the robbery squared. I'd love to be wrong, but I don't think time's gonna deny me. In fact, practice will confirm what I'm saying. It's just all going for sale. What happens to us when that Hans from Vienna or Johan from Salzburg anyway, buys 2 or 3 apartments in one Poreč, Umag or Vrsar? So anymore this Hans or that Johan or Giovanni from Milan won't need our receptionist anymore, he'll do these jobs himself, he'll do these jobs himself on the Internet, the payments will be done in Milan, Salzburg or Vienna or Munich anyway and that way our people, Mr. Mayor Little Losinj, will be out of a job. That's what capital is all about. Why? Because normally this whole conversion and the whole policy is then designed in that direction. It is true that this law is not the repurpose of tourist zones. That's right. But it's a favor to the tycoons that are for one white, for one black, they get hotel houses up the coast. How much did the private investment funds, e.g. Take over if I'm not mistaken for the Blue Lagoon? 0 Kuna. No one came with their money, for 0 kuna they got a Blue Lagoon. How much did the tycoons pay, I don't know, who privatized those hotel houses? 0 Kuna. Those who came later, Strok, etc. They were getting loans and they actually went in for a bagatella. How much did the banks, for example, pay? Downloaded "Istratourist"? 0 Kuna. They came to these facilities based on revolving and previously paid loans. Where were the workers here? Nowhere. Not to swear on this pay phone right now is not to say where they've been. Where was EPOP? Something was being bought at a set price, e.g. "Anita" for 140 million kuna, etc. etc. It would have been far better if this country had kept the hotel sector and given an empty land for 0 kuna. And this is how we gave the hotels and the country and the apartments and we equipped all of this and the infrastructure and the stalking work all for 0 kuna. Maybe if there was something a little bit going on, maybe it would be even good, I don't know. But I'm against it because it's not possible to say how small it is. I'm so afraid, especially in northern Istria, of being followed by a disaster. We're going to make one rich, we're going to make the other poor, we're going to leave them without a job. We will break the concept of tourism as it worked in Istria or on one Little Losinj, hotels, apartments, so these apartments will now go for sale immediately, camps, there were sports and catering facilities. It will probably all sell nicely, etc., etc. In the 1970s, in the '80s, we were 30 years ahead of Spain, and today we can only conclude that from the 1990s to today on the entire Adriatic, not counting the reconstruction of the facility, built 10 or 15 hotels with more than 150 keys or rooms or beds. Perhaps one such law on sea leveling makes sense higher and higher opportunities prevailing in Živožnost or Hvar, but I am afraid that this law will certainly not please the tourism sector in Poreč, Vrsar, Umag or Rovinj. This is the first thing I wanted to say, although it is clear that this entire tourism sector is at least uninvited. And here's to quote a title of Mr. Vlahovic, the question is, will... with equal intensity to invest in tourism. [[You don't understand.]] The second question is what we often talk about golfing, these are articles 10, 11, 33, 34, page 35, which says that the provisions of this article modify the conditions, etc., mostly here and here are mentioned, and I see that I am bright, and this golf. I claim it was a good purpose for the golf law that the prime minister indicated to be abolished. It's okay, it's necessary, rational, political opportuno certainly clearly civilized I would say necessary, but here some substitute some of this law that is more valuable to access the problem than it has been before. It is clear that apartments will also be built alongside golf hotels, without it everything is invaluable it is more than clear, but I think that there can be even closer to the sea line now compared to the existing legal solution so that it should be at least careful. Here it is said, just to quote, golf courses are planned in isolated construction areas outside the village sports purposes instead of in a separate building area outside the settlement and areas within the settlement of catering touristic purposes, so that they must be at least 25 meters away from the coastal line, etc., etc. All in all, in one part of this law, it is absolutely acceptable to speed up procedures, and in this internship, gentlemen, I am not sure that this will bring anyone any benefit except those who have privatized hotel complexes for 1 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75391	Thank you. There's a few corrections. First, she's Mrs. Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75392	Well, here's a few incorrect allegations from Mr. Cain. The first was that there was no reason for this law to be P.Z.E. Well, it's about harmonising with the Services Act Directive on the domestic market, that's one thing. Secondly, when it comes to internships and internships, it was already possible under the current law, and you would have recorded how much we understood from your debate on the IDS criteria, and that will not be possible. This is a unique state, a unique coast, so the criteria are unique. The fact is that there is no change in purpose and that is what is most important and it is also good to adopt the Committee's proposal in the part where the parcel and the whole facility would be managed jointly. When it comes to reducing investment from 50 to 30 billion euros that you were talking about, you skipped to remember that there was a global crisis, so probably investors invested slightly less. And I believe this law will be an excellent incentive for a new swing.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75393	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Boris Kunt. It's not. ... Then I apologize, I made the wrong note. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, Mr. Frano Matušić, the correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75394	Thank you, Mr. President. It is incorrect to quote fellow Cain that the state does not give a single kuna to the Istrian ipislon. The state allocates 17m euros annually, meaning 120m kuna for the Istrian ipislon. If it's anything to you... 120 million kuna, 17 million euros. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So if it's nothing to you, then I really don't know what we'd be talking about any further. The second thing is, when you ask where they were, where they were, where you were when the tourist sector was banked and barbed around Croatia, when your SDP partners were giving their friends the same hotels. Where you were, you were in the same government. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75395	Correction, Mr. Attorney Gary Cappelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75396	Your Honor. I would correct two incorrect allegations of more than they were. The first is, it's said that the law or similar things are wrong, bad laws and similar things that are guilty of reducing investment from 50 billion to 30 billion things in the building. ... You said exactly that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And as my colleague said in the crisis, fear of investment, poor banking conditions, we know what interest was 7.8 if not more. Now that the interest has fallen, you see how the purchase has returned. Then rebuilding at high square meter prices. These were the real reasons, not that they were similar laws that were not and that this law might bring something better. Secondly, you mentioned tycoonization, you mentioned Little Losinj. I'd only tell you that in Little Losinj it's '91. The conversion and privatisation carried out so that the workers themselves bought the entire company and the owners of the company, and the EBRD now entered with 30 million and all hotels and facilities rising from 3 to 5 stars, so there is no tycunisation. Thank you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75397	Thank you. Minister, Mr. Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75398	Thank you, Mr. President. I will be very brief given that I feel the need to talk to Agent Cain about the problem and the consequences that can lead to the establishment of accommodation facilities in tourist areas. So, I feel the need to say those arguments that go in favour of the adoption of this law and that they say that they do not stand, according to Agent Cain. So I will repeat, based on the current law, it is possible to establish accommodation facilities located in separate buildings such as villas and apartments in T1 and T2 zones, this is the first finding. The second finding is that, and this I said, the sale of real estate, land, the building is governed by another law, the Law of Property and other real rights and the Law of Mandatory Relations. And since our people are also inclined to play until now and before the basic law came in from 2007, there was a sale of apartments, accommodation units within apartment settlements and tourist settlements in such a way that the sale of certain accommodation units was made and then the new owner of that unit would be co-owner of that area, that settlement in the ideal part and used this facility, and the contract would solve the other areas that served to use this space which, that building, was the apartment that was in the system of that apartment settlement. The third thing that matters is that I have to say, there's no way to change the purpose of that space based on an internship. Well, this is the kind of solution to property-legal relations in tourist settlements. It's not news to Croatia. This if we have visited any tourist countries both Mediterranean and continental countries of Europe exist as a way of additional investment and financing in this area, which through the possibility of standing and selling is returned to the investor and then it can raise the quality of that space. Through this sharing that happens in a range of tourist resorts across Europe, this system has already been established. Therefore, something already exists, which was made possible by the 2007 law, and before that, by a series of contracts that were in force, which allowed the purchasers of apartments in those areas to build a co-owned part of the property that was described in the contract becoming the owner of that space practically happened at a small door something that had already been legaled in 2007. The other thing, another very important thing I have to say, is that the basic principle that the law provides, which speaks of the T1 zone, must be 70% of the accommodation capacity in hotels cannot be changed by staging. Therefore, what must be built as a hotel in a particular tourist zone and whether it must be built and cannot be established, which is very important. And in the T2 zone where the ratio is 30% for hotels, and 70% for villas or apartments must also not be affected by this bill at the expense of accommodation facilities in hotels, i.e. in catering and tourist facilities where accommodation facilities are also. So that's what I also said in the introduction. What we have done, we have done together with the Ministry of Tourism, which is very much taking care of it, so that with the possibility of staging in some near or further future, there is a change in that space of loss of leadership, loss of purpose, the purpose of that space to be touristic. That's very important. And that's what the law says. And something else that was at the debate yesterday, on the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, which is that through this debate and through the second reading of the law itself together with the Ministry of Tourism, we will consider the possibility of signing a contract that obliges the future owner of the individual accommodation capacity to continue to be clearly used together with the company, the company that owns the zone itself. Therefore, it is therefore necessary to say that there is no change in intention, that it is possible to record what was previously made possible, but now under strictly established conditions in order not to violate the basic purpose, the purpose of a specific zone, which is foreseen by spatial plans for a single unit of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75399	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations and representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75400	So first of all, the best example that could be different in tourism is what Cappelli was saying,... Hello. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is the best example of the privatisation of Croatian tourism. But now to answer the wrong quote. All the mayors in Istria are opposed to this decision on the internship. All the workers are against it. And who's in? These are administrations that are tied to bonuses and normal owners. It's not about Mr. Minister changing the purpose of space. Of course that's not gonna happen. It is when someone sells 50 apartments in a tourist resort or 50 villas, these villas will not be filled by receptionists more from Poreč or Umag, but will be filled by their customers Hans or Johan, Jovani or Smith or McCarthy. God forbid he buys something from the Beatles or where he plays now, it doesn't matter. They'll charge. And our men, Mr. Minister, will be out of a job, and owners who are one white, for one black or most often come to nothing for these tourist facilities, will either take the money to foreign banks or keep it in their own pocket.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75401	Thank you. Time's up. This was a good replica, but a bad correction to an incorrect quote. So we'll keep going. We'll continue to discuss clubs. Next is the club of HNS, HSU and respected representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75402	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Spatial Planning is a law that in a very special way, but very powerful way and regulates the space in which we live and definitely something that is of interest to every citizen of this country. But almost certainly one passing, simple, acceptable, comprehensible law opens strong support and opens one support for a stronger economy. The fact that since 1992, when the first law was passed, the Construction Act has so far been, so far, four laws, that there have been about a dozen amendments or better said in that area almost every two years, there has been some change and some change. The fact that the first law has 84 articles does not mean that it was ideal, but also the fact that the last one in 2007 has 354 articles. And that this Law, these amendments to the law, amend the existing law of 2007 which had 354 articles to amend it with Article 123. In other words, one dimension that is quite enough for a rational, quality, logical law that can regulate this area. The practice also says that in this space, space of spatial arrangement, yes, and according to current law, and with these amendments, this law is, means that the old and this new one is also extensive, that in many segments, many elements, many articles legally complicated, according to the practice so far, complicated for the vast majority of citizens, and that I especially want to highlight both the profession and that often certain legal interpretations for both citizens and the profession, that legal assistance for both citizens and professions was necessary and legal assistance. What's our state of mind in space, it's the law that's coming to debate behind this point, along with a series of other things. What's our quality... space, what added value of inspection services in that space, all this time, and these services are under the authority of that resolute ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So one space that has a whole series of disadvantages, a space that opens up a whole series of corrupt elements, and a space that, once again, I repeat to a rational, logical and life-threatening and economically acceptable way, needs to be resolved. Are these amendments to the Amendments and Supplements Act, does it provide us? Yesterday I was also on the Committee on Construction, because I was interested in the topic and discussion of the profession, and the debate on the Committee on Construction, on the parent board confirmed that this first reading was an attempt, but that it was necessary and that until the second reading of a whole series of things was needed to change, with as much serious and logical observations as there was a green action, that very serious and logical remarks had both professions and chambers, and also the association of cities, which we all got, what you all got and what the ministry got, and what was discussed yesterday and on the board. At the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party, we would like to warn only some of these, as the minister in his opening statement accepted the obligation to accept the comments made so far, and we hope that in the second reading these remarks will be incorporated into concrete articles. Our remarks, our first observation on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party, are in Article 8, which changes the work of the county offices for spatial planning. The fact is that these 17 years of functioning of the county offices for spatial planning that they had been able to design spatial plans, the fact that after 17 years from County to County the efficiency of these county institutions is completely different, which is reflected in a certain way and in space to individual counties. There are county institutions that have, through their principle of action, carried out in the counties, taken care of space, protected both general and public interest, both at national and regional level and at local level, and at the same time provided both professional and staff conditions, that in their midst they can meet the needs of spatial development and protection of space set before them. It's a fact, it's evident, and it's known, and I personally am pleased to come from the county, from the Varazdin County, who the institution with its work, the work so far, the effects of its work, the formation, the staff that has an example of this country. Why don't they have other counties, it's a matter of the mayor and a matter of representative executive bodies in other counties, certainly somewhere for a reason that space hasn't been opened, but at the same time something happened in the space that we're going to discuss in the next item of the agenda, along with a series of other things. Another very important thing to point out, which is the result of the good work of the county offices for spatial planning, which is the quality of the staff. It is known that in the area of spatial planning, personnel are not created overnight, that these staffs should be raised, and just county institutions, especially those who have been responsible for their work, e.g. Our county office respected the decision of the Minister and the 2007 law and made the necessary structure, an institution, until, for example, the state institute had not yet done so, and it has the same obligation, and a whole series of other institutions in the county, have not done so. Now this law makes it impossible for them to make spatial plans. They have personnel, they have quality, they have experience, and they know their best space. What's next? Is that a guess? County institutions are also ready and have an obligation to accept chamber prices, too. So the reason for some kind of market element, I don't think it's there. I don't think he's here, and I think there's been a huge mistake here, with more than that, for example. our Varazdin County, county... The county office is extremely supportive of low tax-income municipalities, as 50% of the cost covers the county, and 50% of the costs are covered by units of local self-government, municipalities and cities, in the payment dynamics agreed on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, there is no reason to prevent county institutions from continuing to work and spatial planning in their area, and we think in the club of the CNS and the Croatian party of pensioners we believe that it was made here, whether consciously, whether unconsciously, whether in good intentions or in any other way, but that a mistake has been made, so we expect that in the text of the law on second reading, it will continue to be corrected and the county institutions to continue to make up spatial plans in their fields. Furthermore, Article 10, which amends Article 51 of the basic law, restricts the procedure in the area of the protected coastal belt – it was said on the committee yesterday that such an amendment was definitely undermining the protection of the coastal belt. Such a change weakens the protection of coastal space, there is no reason to prevent the exploitation of the sun's power or to allow the exploitation of the sun's forces only for its own purposes. I understand that in a protected coastal belt you are not allowed to build a wind power plant, but the production of electricity with a photovoltaic module just for your own purposes, why? If the owner of the facility has opportunities and is willing to invest in photovoltaic modules and, despite his personal consumption, to place excess electricity on the market, the more we have a 20-20-20 commitment to renewable energy sources and general energy. Therefore, I see no reason to limit the possibility of exploiting the sun's power in this area. Also yesterday on the board and our remark is and we see no reason, or if there are reasons we pray that they are far more transparent of why and therefore reduces the protected coastal belt from 300 meters to 100 meters on the coast and on islands from 100 to 50. Why or for what reason or whether there is some golf course that allows it to be, that is 25 meters to the coastal line. If so, it would be good to hear that and to know who you are because the law opens up space so that the golf course can be built 25 meters from the coast line. And we believe that these changes weaken the protection of coastal space, along with other things I'll talk about later. Articles 33 and 34 – decentralisation, transferred to the competent authority to give consent for the adoption of specific plans... from the Ministry of the Mayor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, if the mayor fails to give consent within the appropriate time limit, the consent shall be deemed to have been granted. And by reducing protected space and giving the mayor's consent, we're really bringing the mayor into a very awkward position. When we talk about a protected coastal belt, I think that the Government of the Republic of Croatia must control this area through its ministry, the Government of the Republic of Croatia must assume that responsibility because it has to shift the responsibility to a lower level through one form of decentralisation, definitely beside the other elements, has corrupt elements. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. – interning, needs to be established, support the I'm sure it's necessary and necessary. However, for this to be very clearly written criteria and everything we heard today and from the minister that it is written in the law would certainly not be such issues, so we count on this to be prepared for the second reading and written. But it was certainly our observation whether I understood it correctly from the opening argument, from the minister's explanation, I'm not familiar with it, and I'm not sure, but the establishment of the hotel definitely doesn't. If it says so, it's good to write. It's good to write and let him write it a little stronger so everyone understands. There's another article, that's paragraph 120, given that in the absence of time on it I'm going to discuss it individually, but in any case one of the intensities of this law is to simplify the procedure. However, this simplification of the procedure under this bill derivates both the profession and the space and opens the space for corrupt elements in both the protected coastal belt and granting consent to the mayors and the abolition
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75403	Thank you, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75404	In the termination of the office, the internship in a slightly clearer way. We therefore propose that since it is a law that will have far more extensive effects on the living space of all Croatian citizens, we at the HNS-HSU club call for one far more serious and responsible preparation of the law for another reading. If you are able to write this, unless you are not at the end of the term to solve something that is extremely important, which closes space and makes it impossible for some future government to function and let the future government deal with it. We at the HNSU club will support this question, this first reading in the hope that the second reading will open space to an effective law, a law that will create the possibility that this space, that the space we have at our disposal, and that the wealth of our shared will be kept and used more meaningful and beneficial.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75405	Thank you, Mr. Representative, thank you and I for letting you have a longer discussion for a minute. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75406	Thank you. Dear Mr. Koračević, speaking of photovoltaic devices, you said to modules, devices, that the excess energy should be delivered in this case, it should be a HEP distributor who at this time is paying enormous amounts while citizens are paying a single price of kilowatts to the countries in the vicinity of Hungary, Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina. And the second reason is that there is still no law that will allow that excess electricity, therefore legally regulated, to be delivered in this case HEP, given that here according to Slavonia zero bioenergy and that it is very difficult to conclude with HEP under certain conditions that satisfy also investors in order for the price of that kilowatt to be adequate with the funds invested.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75407	Thank you very much. It's the SDP Club and the esteemed representative, Mirela Holly, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75408	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the presentation on behalf of the SDP Club on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this proposal amends 123 provisions of the law which have a total of 350 articles, which pretty much encroachs on the matter of the law, in any case, significantly more than 30% of the amount of the upper limit for the submission of proposals representing a real amendment and the addition of the applicable Act from that border when it is necessary to propose and adopt a new draft law. In other words, the amendments to the Law that we are discussing today are so wide that, in the opinion of the SDP Club, it was necessary to propose a new Law covering this matter. So, at the very beginning, we have to realize that this proposal has a pretty serious procedural error. The only thing that is commendable in this proposal is in a procedural sense that in this extremely important law on Croatia's development we are still discussing in regular rather than emergency procedure, or that we will discuss this proposal in two readings. Unfortunately, the proposal that we are discussing today has a whole series of very controversial provisions, and the question is whether it is possible to fix enough until the second reading, especially if this second reading of the Law is realised even during this marathon assembly session, which is now going to be delayed by the tension and manipulation of the procedure by mid-July. Due to the extremely large dubiosis related to this proposal of the Law to the SDP Club, a large number of remarks and comments have been received from both the civil NGO sector and the professional public circles from the Croatian Chamber of Architects and Associations of Croatian Architects, by economists and investors, individual architects, citizens and the like. Since this bill has caused so much controversy and managed to unite the professional public and NGOs, and we are aware of this rather rarely and unusually in the Croatian context, it is in itself saying that many things in this law are neither in line with professional criteria nor with public interest. In the SDP club, we find it extremely irresponsible from the government to leave, from the government located at the end of the four-year term, perhaps just 2, 3 months before the election that it is irresponsible from such a government to propose and pass under-thinking laws that are so due to the fact that they can cause immeasurable long-term damage in space as one of the most valuable resources of the state. This applies not only to this Law but also to the proposal of the Law on the Treatment of Illegal Buildings, which in the public has caused much more debate and bile reactions but could prove in practice that this Law, although controversial for a whole series of reasons, is actually less harmful than this Law which has caused much less public attention but whose implementation could cause catastrophic consequences in space. Unfortunately, in Croatia, in the last 20 and 30 years we have made so many errors and cardinal errors in the area of space management that we no longer have any manipulative space for new mistakes, and that is why this bill is so important. Now I'm going to refer to some of the many controversial provisions in this bill. Unfortunately, despite the large number of objections to the provisions concerning the staging of what has been discussed so far in the proposal we are discussing today, a permit has been put in place for the establishment of apartments and villas in tourist areas. The Ministry only made it impossible for other articles of the Law to suspend the current procedure for issuing a local permit, building conditions and new use permits in case of re-use of the facility to be re-scheduled. With this proposal for re-use, there is only one solution and apartments become residential space that can be re-purposed for another purpose. If it is in accordance with the spatial plan. This proposal lays down provisions that allow for a double-largest square for agricultural and catering facilities in the coastal area and reduces the distance to which it can be built from the coast. Instead of 100 meters, it can now be built 70 meters from the coast of the sea and on islands can be built only 50 metres from the coast. The architects warned that this bill allows and legalizes robbery or that conditions for legalization of robbery are created, and since this is about space and especially valuable coastal space, we are asking that the Resort Ministry, until the second reading, amend these provisions that encourage corruption and space malversion. Otherwise, we can only conclude that the Ministry and the Government are not concerned about public interest and sustainable space management, but that they are concerned only about satisfying the interests of greedy developers because this is not about investors and entrepreneurs who are going to meet but rather about raising... speculators whose only interest is to enrich the public interest and that overnight. In the SDP Club, he also warned of the serious ignoring of the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which is a roof law for all administrative procedures, as well as the procedures for issuing building conditions solutions. This applies to a provision in accordance with which an investor does not have to pay a contribution unless the competent authority issues a building permit within 15 days. This is difficult to understand because the law stipulates that the authorisation is considered to be a positive solution unless the competent authority solves the case within a time limit but it is very doubtful that the law in the event of overrunning the time limit in the authorisation procedure or the solution of the investor is exempt from the obligation to pay the contribution. The state generously favors the so-called so-called. It also commits itself and local self-government units to the sale of up to 50% of the land needed for the construction of investors in Article 58. This is a very drastic liberalisation compared to the solution that the city land had to sell to the investor without competition unless it accounted for more than 20% of the total parcel that the investor needs. However, otherwise, when land is needed for the city or municipality to implement a municipal infrastructure project and owned by investors remained to 20 or not increased to 50% of the land. Which is why the Ministry and the Government have decided on such a position of public interest as a very discriminatory solution. The government is justly seeking to simplify and speed up the process of producing and adopting spatial planning documents and to issue works for construction which, according to the Ministry's claims, lasts on average between 450 and 510 days and, by adopting this Act, should be shortened by an average of 210 days and by as much as 40%, respectively. The Ministry argues that the application of this Act will shorten the procedure for obtaining local and construction permits and confirmation of the main project. All of this should result in the government's view of the launch of numerous investments in the Republic of Croatia as well as the economic recovery of Croatia. The possibility that such a law will compromise the sustainable management of space as the most valuable resource of the government is easily ignored by the finding I quote: "This is why the basic system and concepts of space management as one of the most important Croatian resources will not change because the existing model protects it in an appropriate way" This is quite brave and I would say a thoughtless finding when we have in mind the state of the territory of Croatia, the state in which we have about 150 thousand illegal objects, the objects for which the Government and proposes the Law on Legalisation of Unlawful Construction, and this definitely points to a completely opposite conclusion, which is that the space in Croatia is not managed as one of the most important Croatian resources and that the existing model of space management does not necessarily protect space in the right way. It is precisely quoted as saying that the current model protects space in a negotiated way with great concern, because if a more restrictive model has had these effects, what impact on the space will have on this almost entirely liberal model not management but free space. In the SDP club, we fear that the final result of the application of this law would be a complete collapse of the spatial planning system in Croatia and a completely illogical redefining of the relations of participants and participants in the construction. Such a very pessimistic finding relates first and foremost to Article 20, which shifts the level of implementation planning to the level of strategic planning. Such a provision of low-level planning shall be left to the procedures for the establishment of local permits, thus reopening the door of the so-called so-called ‘door’. The locational urbanism that has already caused enormous damage in Croatian space over the past 20 years. The same article further deepens the professional principles of planning as the obligation to adopt detailed arrangements is suspended. Article 23 allows for a change in the scope of the spatial arrangement implementing document without any criteria that encourages it. point-to-point urbanism based on ownership without seeing the whole. The urban point also encourages Article 61 which enables land owners to finance and select the designers of the spatial planning document only in cases where land owners are wholly owned. The extremely dangerous newspaper is brought by Articles 33 and 34, which abolish the ministry's competence over the production of implementing spatial documents in a protected coastal band, thereby certainly reducing the level of its protection. The Government allows Articles 51 and 52 to be parceled on the basis of urban planning arrangements, which so far has been possible only through a lower order plan, a local permit or a decision on building conditions. Article 62 enables and even encourages conflicts of interest because according to this proposal, the designer may be an employee of a person who is a contractor on the same building, and the chamber of architects rightly warns that the interest of the contractor is a profit, and the interest of designers of the quality of the building for which he is responsible. We would also like to draw attention to the justified commentation of the Green Action already discussed by a colleague from the HNS who refers to Article 10 of this proposal of the law, which in fact prohibits commercial use of solar energy on the coast and on the islands. Given that the government allegedly has great potential in Croatia's energy empowerment and also in Croatia's economic recovery sees exactly in the realisation of renewable energy projects, this provision says exactly the opposite, i.e. that the government is obstructing the use of renewable energy sources, and this is in direct contrast with the European policy in which this Government so often swears. Unfortunately, this bill is filled with such extremely dangerous provisions. In the SDP club, we therefore appeal to the proposings, the resolution ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to seriously consider all numerous objections to this document and to respect them and thus correct this recklessly designed proposal or to fully withdraw it from the procedure, because the application of this agreed law would cause long-term and even immeasurable damage in space.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75409	Thank you very much. We have three corrections to an incorrect quote. First respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75410	Dear colleagues, you said it was irresponsible for the government to propose a law like this three months before the election. I would correct mine is that it is intentionally irresponsible because it is necessary to legalise purchased land, factories, apartments, villas, re-use of land. Well maybe the best way to say this title from Voice of Slavonia, "Legalization of lawless objects" as the next law villa can, farm no.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75411	Thank you very much for the strained correction. Let's go with the next correction. Dear representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75412	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I will correct the statement of the representative lady who incorrectly claims that this law is not in line with the professional and public interest as it is not true that there are manipulations in the procedural sense regarding this marathon session of the Croatian Parliament. So I'm going to say that the very fact that you're going into first reading is clearly an articulated intention of proposing that the law be passed in optimal form. Also on public interest, it is true that there is no change in the purpose of tourist space because it is within the authority as the minister has already clearly said twice by the unit of local and regional self-government, I will also say a simpler procedure for the adoption of spatial planning documentation, a smaller number of implementation spatial plans, and with much less money, the weaker units of local and regional self-government will make the way for new investments. And when we talk about bringing the authorities down from the ministry to the mayors, then it's also commendable because, definitely then, in a better and more optimal form and a regulation on a protected coastal area, it must be applicable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75413	Thank you very much. The latest correction of the incorrect allegations has a respected representative Marina Matulović Dropulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75414	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There are several incorrect allegations but I would correct one that says that this law does not provide space protection and provides a liberal model. Unlike the law that was passed in 2001 when it was possible for all the illegally built objects to join the municipal infrastructure and when the deadlines for spatial plans were expelled from the law, when Mrs Holly was in that ministry, then it was not keeping space. And this law as well as the 2004 and 2007 law ensures space protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75415	Thank you very much. First of all, notice that the time has elapsed for submitting applications for individual debates on this point. And we're moving on to clubs. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75416	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with an associate, a representative and a representative. Certainly, when we talk about spatial planning and construction, it should be pointed out that faster and more social and economic development often leads to different uses of space when it comes to housing, industrial or touristic and, of course, sometimes in space, to mutual conflicts. Given that the area does not end with administrative borders of municipalities, cities, regions and states, more and more requirements for looking at areas in a wider context from local to European to avoid mutual discrepancies, adverse impacts, but also maintaining specific values. The solution to the problem in space as well as its planning is not only about planning and harmonising different uses of environmental protection, natural and cultural heritage, but also about the economy, right, social issues, science and politics. Croatia has a significant spatial position between the west and the east of Europe and between Central and Mediterranean Europe. Since Croatia cannot be singled out from European processes, they should be actively involved and used to preserve and improve their own space. Therefore, the basic conclusion put forward in front of us is that we need to build a new attitude towards space and a responsible and effective policy of spatial regulation that would remove so far's weaknesses and determine the objectives and policy of spatial development in line with Europeans. The perspective of European spatial development is based on the principles of uniform and sustainable development, mainly through the strengthening of economic and social integration, and possibly the principle of spatial integration in the future. The harmonisation of Croatia's spatial development policy for European processes requires a new strategy. Accordingly, the existing spatial policy framework should be rerouted and not only the decision-makers in the state and counties should be involved in its implementation but also those at local level in municipalities and cities because local authorities have a decisive impact on space with their plans and measures. Although there is no European spatial legislation in the accession process, we have made sure that we implement certain legal regulations and bring our own legislation in line with European practice. But did we fully succeed in implementing these laws? We in the HSS believe that the public should participate in the process of preparing spatial plans and determining procedures in space, not in the event that the public finds out about the procedure in the space when it already happens. Such behaviour is not in line with the public interest, and the capital of investors who are not responsible is also at risk because we have not provided adequate public hearing mechanisms. Put the notice only on the board in the municipality, we can all agree here, it's not enough. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the control of the application of the law. We also believe in HSS that it is wise to maintain a strategic environmental impact assessment in the adoption of a strategy and a programme of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, but also in the adoption of county spatial plans that are directly related to the financial planning and analysis of the financial justification of certain procedures. Finally, although the existing legislative regulation is a prescribed relationship between the different levels of the planning documents, the relationship between the documents of the different sectors of the economy has not been resolved and they need to be harmonised. We are aware in the HSS that this law is proposed in good faith and its aim is to facilitate construction, speed up the adoption of spatial and urban plans by cutting deadlines, and where there is... the practical abolition of detailed plans that are now holding back investment. [[You don't understand.]] The changes relate to simplifying the complex procedure so far, which the World Bank has warned of, and to shortening procedures. Thus far, the procedure has lasted up to 450 days, up to 510 days, and should be shorter in about 210 days. However, it should be pointed out that this change allows for the establishment and sale of apartments, and so far only rentals in tourist areas marked on spatial plans as T2 and T2 have been possible. Professional associations warn that it opens up across the door for investors to build residential settlements under cover of tourism. Of course, residential zones return investment in two years while tourist facilities pay off after 10 to 15 years. And that's where we have to agree, the profiteers see their interest. And yet it should be acknowledged that this is a pure profit race that would lead to a permanent devastation of the coast and its concreteization, which is unacceptable for us in the HSS. This solution, according to the Croatian Peasant Party, should be completed in a way that can only be established with the inability to change the purpose of such a building and with a clear regulation of the maintenance and management of the premises of all co-owners of the building and parcel in the area of catering tourist purposes. We must point out that we are not inclined to support the weakened protection of the coastal belt as proposed by this law, but we are committed to retaining existing solutions that define that the smallest distance in which new buildings can be planned or built remains 100 metres from the coastal line. It is our view that county offices for spatial planning should continue to be able to develop spatial plans of cities and municipalities and urban planning of the arrangements because they are qualified for the job, and this is also a great help for small municipalities that do not have sufficient financial resources to develop their own spatial plans. We would like to warn the promoter that it is necessary to review the restrictions introduced in Article 10 for the use of renewable energy sources, in particular solar energy, because we believe that there is no justification for the ban on commercial use of solar energy on islands and on the coast unless it threatens landscape and tourism. It is the solar energy that can be a significant source of energy for small municipalities on islands and shores, but also a significant aid to agricultural producers. This article should also enable the activities of maricculture, which would place this activity on land legally and in line with European standards. We want to use this debate to remind the HSS's request regarding the revision of the programme and the strategy of the spatial planning of the Republic of Croatia because the same documents provide for procedures that we consider to be irrevocably destroying the territory of Croatia such as the nuclear waste disposal site on the Trade Mountain or the Novo Virje hydropower plant. We oppose such projects and feel that they should be deleted from these documents. Formal rules regarding planning space, although they may change overnight, that's never good. However, the preservation and improvement of values in space depends not only on formal adherence to regulations but on the ethical and moral behaviour of individuals and society as a whole. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that there is no universal recipe for long-term sustainable social economic development, so each country needs to find its own way of balanced space management. Unlike the highly developed countries of Europe in which the space has gained political meaning and has the character of social value, the area in Croatia except for the seashore has not become a strong enough focus of social and political interest. So very often I would also say here that sometimes infertile debates in which one is trying to prove that exactly the rural space is the most valuable thing that we have not only in terms of resources but also in terms of preserving the identity, culture and heritage of the Croatian people. The harmonisation of laws from certain areas as well as the introduction of new institutions by example of EU member states can have the opposite effect of what is planned if we do not respect the specificities and specificities of Croatia as a small country that has an extremely valuable space. Success will be lagging behind if spatial planning issues are planned and organised only from the state level. Ideas, incentives and visions should come from both the population and local self-government. It is therefore necessary to include them in the decision-making process, as the Constitution guarantees them. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction in First Reading and I believe that the Proposer will take these remarks seriously and install them in the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75417	Thank you very much. It is now up to HDZ club and respected representative Marina Matulović Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75418	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. The law on spatial planning and construction was adopted in 2007 and applied from 1.1.2008. During the four-year application of the law and the monitoring of its effects, certain irregularities were observed in its pronunciation, certain legal gaps, and the need for further explanations, in particular due to the changes in laws, such as the Law on Property which must be harmonised between them. The need for further harmonisation of the law in question with the European Community Directive on services on the internal market and the need to comply with the recently adopted Fire Protection Act has also been established. In the current law, particular attention is paid to the creation and adoption of spatial plans of units of local self-government which Mr. Minister also spoke of because without them it is not possible to develop a single municipality and no city, so neither can Croatia. It is significant that in 2004, an amendment to the law was adopted, which again after 2001 enabled and set deadlines for the development of spatial plans, so we can say that at last all units of local self-government of them 556 have adopted plans. In 2004, there were only 113. The spatial plans of the local self-government units allowed a large part of the illegal facilities to be legalized, as construction areas were established at locations where local self-government units felt that buildings could remain especially if they were residential buildings. Some areas of course where cottages were built did not enter the building area especially in locations where all use of space under the same conditions should be made possible. The existing law lays down the treatment of buildings built without an act by the competent authority on the basis of which it can be built, which is the solution to the state of play and the confirmation of the situation. Unfortunately, a small number of investors and citizens took advantage of this possibility and by analysing why it did not happen that part of the people could not legalise objects because of unresolved property-legislative relations, and others because they did not want to pay for the municipal and water contribution. And that is why today we will also discuss the Law on the Legalisation of Unlawful Objects. This proposal amends and complements the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction estimated that improving certain provisions of the existing law can remove perceived ambiguities and correct the text without altering the concept of the law, i.e. achieving the objective of the law. This provides for the simplification and acceleration of the procedure for the production and adoption of spatial planning documents, which means the reduction of the deadlines for the adoption of particularly amending and supplementing plans and implementation plans such as UPU and detailed plans. So far, for example, it has happened that regardless of what the law said, detailed plans should be made only for the areas and that only the areas where certain urbanists are involved have made the urban planning and wrote inside that four more detailed plans are needed. Now it is clear by this bill that it is forbidden and of course it was applied, and I say and the past law meant it, but it did not explicitly prohibit it. And that's why it's good that this bill defends it. Also, the deadlines for submitting reports after a public hearing have been cut, so instead of nine months, it is now put on six months. I think that no matter how many months we put it, it will be very difficult to deal with because people hope to start taking their job more seriously. Individual and provisions in this bill are included under that law, which obliged units of local, towns and counties to also issue permits within 45 days, which is also good. The present proposal provides for strengthening the role and responsibilities of the county in regulating and protecting the protected coastal area of the sea in part of the spatial planning implementation documents. Therefore, it does not apply to spatial plans of units of local self-government or general plans, nor to county plans, but exclusively to urban planning and detailed plans, because this will create an assumption for the regulation of a number of buildings and works that can be built on, or performed without location, not specifically laid down that the regulation which has yet been in force but has been extended will extend that individual works without a local permit or building act will be performed, and facilitate changes in the purpose of the construction and the introduction of a solution to change the purpose in case no construction work is required for that change and if they make up a building block. In fact, it's important to say here that you remember all the construction of those large residential buildings where the ground floor was intended for business spaces. Business spaces could be built in rohbau and s, meaning rough construction works, and everything else had to be resolved to the end in order to obtain a useful permit. It was prescribed that a building permit must still be requested on the ground floor for each individual space and that one day when you get it cannot be changed for a purpose. It's really not right because people who used to have a shop now want to open a hair salon or want to open something else. There's no reason not to allow that re-use. So, if construction works are not needed and if these are other conditions, as far as sanitary conditions are concerned and similar and adopted. So I think it's a very good decision. Facilitating the preparation of the documentation necessary for the issue of a local permit, acts for the construction and process of their adoption, in particular the process of amending or supplementing those licences, by affirming the principle of full and trueness of the data in land books and the principle of trust in the land book, which significantly increases legal certainty in real estate transport. It is good that this law goes in two readings, because of that, of course, there are still certain specific provisions that should be considered. So one of them is, for example, that price list, which we discussed yesterday on the board, chambers of authorised architects and engineers, no one disputed that they, like all other chambers that have their prices, should have certain prices, but we must be aware that the price increase does not mean an increase in the quality of the plans themselves. The Croatian Democratic Community club thinks that the work of the county offices for spatial planning should be considered in particular. Today we have heard already and there have been discussions about it, we think that county institutions must continue to make plans, but of course plans that these units of local self-government cannot finance, or their own, means their county plans that are allowed them by this law, but also the spatial plans of certain municipalities. Because otherwise people who know their jobs, who can do their jobs, because some private urban firms think they shouldn't go through county institutions, want it for themselves alone. We think it's not good, and that it should also allow those people, who are professional people, to continue to do the same. We also think that when it comes to the fact that an investor can build a municipal infrastructure for its premises, if the local self-government unit is not needed at that time, we think that we should say here that its capacity, at its capacity, should give local self-government units consent because it is not necessary, should not build pipes enough for their part only, but should do so and that it should be able to supply a wider area. We think that we should also consider that a detailed plan of arrangements can determine that 50% of the parcels must be sold to the investor of units and local self-government or state, it may be 20% too little, but it seems to us that 50% is a little too small. But I think we should, we need to discuss it and see a little bit of the situation in ourselves, in nature. Articles 69 and 73 which discuss the coherence of the project with the main one, the main one with the implementation, believe that this should certainly be taken care of and that individuals should give consent, as the Committee on Spatial Planning thought. And we also think that we should deal a little more with and discuss Article 10, which speaks about the possibility of building on 3 hectares of rural households that are engaged in catering and tourism, and that they can be 50 metres from the coastal line on the islands, if this should be made possible on the continent, because all people are equal or not to allow or leave as it is now in the bill itself. And I'm going to just say the Croatian Democratic Community's position on the record, because obviously it's one of the main problems, there's no country in Europe and in the world that has no possibility of sharing it, or whatever it is you want to call it, means building apartments or villas as much as the spatial plans, i.e. by law, are allowed, not to sell in private ownership of individual apartments. It is important that these apartments cannot change their purpose and that they must conclude a maintenance contract with the entire settlement, so there are no fences on the plots, it is forbidden, there is no parceling, and it is forbidden in this law. Therefore, those who deal with the entire settlement should maintain everything, so those privates who buy the apartment must pay it, too, and in the management of the contract, because it does not mean that if someone buys an apartment and stays in it for two months, or a month or 5 months, that they can't give it to the management of that apartment to the one who manages the property means to the entire settlement, and that he, on behalf of the owner, rents that space, and gives it a certain fee when it is not needed to use that apartment. So there's this all over the world. If you are going to Austria for skiing, go to the hotel reception, ask for reception accommodation, give you a private apartment, and you normally live in that private apartment while you are there, or go to a hotel if you want to. Therefore, as I have already said, the Croatian Democratic Community Club estimates positively that the amendment and addition of this Law on Spatial Planning and Construction has been made, and that the law is passed in two readings, because of course the ministry has heard now and Mr. Minister has heard all sorts of remarks from various sides and I am sure that they will adopt it and that much of the remarks made here, as Mr. Minister himself said, will be accepted until the second reading of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75419	Thank you very much, ma'am. And the last registered club for this item of the agenda is the HDSSB club, and the respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75420	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Minister. The HDSSB advocates' club will not support this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, the reason for this is much, and here is what I will say about the most important one. First of all, these amendments and additions to the law are essentially subject to the law by many opinions and interpretations of the ministry in connection with the application of the law so far, which, according to the needs of the holes and ambiguities in the law, has created enormous legal uncertainty in application. Unfortunately, the ministry has often given itself the right to opinions and interpretations to change the law so that most of what is now changed in practice is applied as well. This is best witnessed by a number of examples from the administrative and judicial practice of the Administrative Court, which, by arbitration over the second-degree solutions of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, has refuted many of these solutions. The basic problem of the present, as well as the amended and updated law, is its complete difference with reality. He may be well-oriented, but for a little further future. It is assumed that it is well prescribed from the German or Austrian law, however, they are organised companies which, in addition to that law, have arranged a whole system of planning, land arrangements and the implementation of all the measures laid down in that law. That's what's missing the most, effective mechanisms of implementation. Local self-government units are also set too high targets and criteria that those with current resources and people simply cannot meet. As a result, the system at the level of implementation does not work, the plans only stop, in most implementation they only create problems for investors, citizens and the local self-government unit itself, and the space is getting worse and worse for us. On the other hand, it is not a much better situation even in designing, the papers pile up everything with learned and sound names, which are elaborates, studies, measures that are actually a dead letter on paper in nature. The projects are getting fatter and fatter, more expensive and more expensive, while at the same time unquality. The same situation is with the quality of construction. And, of course, the costs are piling up, and every once in a while the state remembers to add another thousand kuna to some paper behind which is nothing but form and price. The most recent example is also in these proposed amendments and additions to Articles 4 and 5 for energy certificates. These changes and additions, therefore, are not eliminated, the state of implementation is slightly improved, but not until the end and a little bit simplifies the procedure for the adoption of amendments and the addition of plans. However, there are several very controversial things that, despite these small improvements, we are against this proposed law on amendments and additions. Here are the concrete remarks. Article 8 of these amendments and additions deprives the county institutions of the possibility of drawing up spatial plans of units of local self-government and urban planning of arrangements for no real reason. In fact, the law forces the county to have institutions that are a significant cost to county budgets, even by regulation prescribes a minimum number and structure of employees, and in nature they are not used particularly if they are teamed up according to the rule. This makes it impossible to use rationally the professional staff of the Institute for Construction and other plans. The law does not need to worry about the fact that institutions can devote themselves more to their basic activities, the founder is to be taken care of. The county, which ultimately finance it, will be able to assess whether the office has or does not have the capacity for these additional tasks. In addition to further clarifying Article 34, the procedure for granting the mayor's consent to the spatial plans of the units of local self-government makes it clear and even shortens the time limit to 15 days. It is unclear whether the maker himself submits an opinion to the office so he applies it with a request for the mayor's consent or at the request of the mayor as a boredom in the process of granting consent. On the other hand, the 15-day deadline is certainly too short because the law is not regulated at all in terms of what the mayor gives consent, and in practice it is interpreted that it is necessary to examine the full legality of the plan which is impossible to do within such a short time. Furthermore, Article 36 adds an article introducing a partial application of the plans, which is strictly unfounded. In a particular case, part of one plan cannot be applied and part of another can be applied. That leads to a mess in space. Plans that are not in line with the broader area plan should simply not be applied as a whole, thus forcing units of local self-government to align such plans if they wish to apply them. Articles 90 and 91 simply delete legalisation procedures from the law. This creates a legal gap because the Law on dealing with illegal buildings that we will talk about under the next item of the agenda does not resolve the legalisation of all types of buildings and has a limited duration. What should happen to illegal buildings that are not buildings and that for other reasons cannot be legalized under this law? What about those buildings that will be illegally built after the Law on the Treatment of Illegal Buildings enters into force? Article 98(2) of the proposed Article 268a should apply only to buildings entered after the entry into force of the law. And finally, Article 120 is the most controversial part of this law for us. In addition to illegal buildings, this article will catch up with all legal buildings because they are not currently enrolled in land books based on what the enrolment was done. This means that all owners of legal buildings enrolled in the land book will have to apply to the courts for registration, likely pay taxes and apply their permits. It is only possible in our country that the law retroactively forces everyone to take possession of the first license offices because they will probably have to ask for a copy of the act and the power of law, then pay some tax and then go to court with the demands. People would say democracy and red tape. This even applies to those buildings built before 1968, so now all the owners will have to come out of the catastra or the competent county or city offices if they are not recorded in the catastra. Really, it's too much, it's too much. If anyone wanted to do so, they should have ordered the court to do so in the official archives, but that would be pointless. And so many of us will have to do this because even in our grants, it doesn't write on the basis of what the house is listed. Now imagine a situation where everyone who seeks copies of those acts that are in the historical archive will find themselves. Well, we have problems with that now, and what's only gonna happen then is hard to imagine. It's like you have to prove you're innocent, not the prosecution that you're guilty. And that's unfortunately our practice. What, then, is the underlying problem with Article 120? The problem is in paragraph 3 of Article 120 of this draft, which retroactively repeals and does not recognise continued administrative and judicial practice, the conclusions of the Administrative Court’s property and legal department, the current principle of trust in land books, legal certainty, the rule of law, the principle of certainty and the safety of participants in legal traffic, since at least in the last 20 years it has been reliable that a clean entry into land books, therefore without burdens of lack of use, guarantees the legality of the building. The provision of the contested Article 120(3) of this draft reads as follows: "The structure entered in the land book without the entry referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be considered as a building constructed without an act on which the construction of the building and without the instrument of use can be accessed, and who determines otherwise should prove it." In fact, the proposed legislative provision shows a lack of confidence in the powers of administrative and judicial judgments as well as in the solutions of the land and book departments of municipal courts retroactively for 20 years. It has already been said that there are many examples from the administrative and judicial practice of the Administrative Court that have refuted many second-degree solutions of this ministry, whether these are solutions in relation to the removal of buildings built at the time of the previously applicable regulation, or whether they are problems related to the legality of objects entered in land books without the burden of lack of construction and use, when accessing reconstruction. Whether it is the situation where building inspection decisions are adopted on the obligation to remove such buildings that are being built or already built, when it comes to the powers of building inspection to issue orders to suspend or issue orders for the destruction of these buildings that are thus entered in the land books. From numerous examples of administrative case-law which controls the legality of administrative acts, clearly and unequivocally, that the administrative court considers the structure entered in land books without the burden of lack of a building permit as different from the Ministry of Legal Use. Or legally built buildings and that enrolment in land books truly, truly and completely reflects the actual state of affairs. On the contrary, the same administrative case-law unequivocally leads to the fact that the structures entered in the land books with a burden of lack of a useful or building permit cannot be regarded as legal or legal structures. It is apparent from the previous that the buildings were entered and built in land books without a burden on the lack of a building permit until 30 September 2007, so on the day that the law on construction, according to the Law on Land Books, was ceased, according to the Law on Property and other real rights, and according to constitutional case law of the legal structure, and given the fact that according to the current law on spatial planning and the construction of the enrolment of land books, the registration of the catastran operan could not be carried out until earlier than the date of entry into the cadastrian operation on the basis of the applicable authorisation or belief for use. It can be concluded that all buildings have so far been built and entered into land books without the burden of lack of a building permit for legal construction. Regardless of such controversial practice in the adoption of a solution to the Ministry, these amendments to the Law could finally regulate certain things by law, which would contribute to clarity of application, but it did not go thoroughly and consistently and therefore further this Law will create problems for many. How can the owners of buildings and dwellings who bought them by relying on a PSC excerpt from which it was apparent that there was no burden of lack of a building permit after the above mentioned article of the draft law, in particular if they were referred to the administrative case-law of the Administrative Court or even more if they were given an adequate and concrete judgment which shows that the structure is entered in land books without burden on the lack of a building permit according to an administrative judgment is considered legal. The same is to conclude that proceedings against second-degree solutions requiring the collapse of the building and which are legally terminated by the annulment of administrative judgments will now, after 20 years, be restarted unless an instrument for use is obtained and recorded in the land books. In most cases, it is an impossible mission since the buildings that have been legally changed by owners have changed several times. How many problems such a bill would create is impossible to imagine. How many young people have borrowed credit and bought apartments in buildings that have been legal so far and have mortgaged the banks. And today, by losing their jobs, they are forced to sell them because of the inability to repay the loan. Should such a category be added to the burden of uncertainty and uncertainty and even the ban on traffic. How they will eventually react to the banks themselves that have approved loans and placed mortgages on such buildings by believing their legality. In this case, it is not possible to explain in the interpretation of the Bill the Ministry explains how to work in affirming the principle of full and truthfulness of the data in land books by acting retroactively on acquired status and rights since the situation in land books has been fully shown so far. As regards Article 120(1), (2) and (3) of this Draft Act and its retroactive action on acquired rights and status, for future action and this Draft Act, no contested provision is provided for in Article 97, amending Article 268, and Article 98, which is added to Article 268a. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As already stated, he should only refer to the buildings entered after the entry into force. For the above reasons, it can be said that even the constitutional principle of non-violence of ownership, the rule of law laid down in Article 3 of the proposed draft law, or Article 122(3) thereof, has been violated. The Constitution. Namely, if the investor of a concrete structure which is entered in land books without a burden is recognised by the administrative court's decision to legalise such a registered structure and this draft de facto annuls this legality and opens up a space for re-examination and, to the ultimate end, even the destruction of the building, it can be considered a seizure of ownership. If the applicant was intended to pressure such buildings entered in land-free books, it would be impossible to legalise a large number of buildings that could be in line with the spatial plans that were in force at the time of the construction of the same buildings but not with the current spatial plans. Although a parallel draft law on the treatment of illegal buildings is envisaged as a difficult way of legalising such buildings that are not in line with the current spatial plan, everything will depend on the neighbor as foreigners in the legal process. Thus, it will happen that weed and tarnished, and according to local conditions, an unacceptable building of scarves due to a good neighbour who has given consent and one who is moderate or with a slight deviation from the spatial plan does not go away because of a naughty neighbor who is capricious, or by blackmailing demands a high fee below the table. Finally, this is an additional reason to preserve the current status of buildings entered in land books without loads, lack of construction and use permits and to apostrophe their usability. As a result of all of this, we propose that the problematic proposal of Article 120(3) be amended in order for the buildings to be entered into the land books without the burden of lack of a building permit until the expected Law amending and supplementing the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction to be laid down in paragraph 5 of the same Article of the draft law and to be brought into force with the structures referred to in that 5th paragraph, these are the structures referred to in Articles 330, 331, 332, and 333 of the existing Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. Finally, for the above reasons, the HDSSB's Club of Representatives cannot support such a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, we hope that until the second reading of our observations will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75421	Thank you, Mr. Representative. We've heard comments, views, suggestions from all clubs reported for discussion, and now we're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. The first registered representative is Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75422	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In front of us is a really quality bill on amendments and additions to the Law on spatial planning and construction that will certainly bring improvements in many parts that are extremely important for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I would say about many institutions in the Republic of Croatia dealing with this problem. Above all, just speeding up procedures and simplifying them will significantly contribute to the strategic objective, which is to accelerate and remove barriers to investment, which was certainly part of the Government of Croatia's programme to enable investors to invest more efficiently and faster in their projects and to come to the realization of these. What is important to emphasise is that the profession was included in the drafting of this proposal to amend and supplement the law that was very actively involved, that many proposals of the profession were respected as Minister Bacic made it very clear that in some ways it was achieved let's say such a broad consensus with all those who participated in the debate on this bill. The fact is that this is the first reading and allows us both a little more concrete and with certain remarks we try to improve this law if possible and if, of course, we reach a broad consensus on it. What is extremely important when we talk about time-outs is the fact that certain spatial planning documents can be brought in a significantly, significantly shorter time-out. In particular, when it comes to the adoption of spatial plans, it is then a reduction of as much as 210 days, which is extremely important for local self-government units and for units of regional self-government. Something that today has been said on behalf of the clubs here could actually be heard an objection to decentralisation of decision-making on compliance with the implementation plans. So, not to the general urban plans, not to the spatial plans, but to the implementation plans, above all, to urban planning arrangements and detailed arrangements that would actually switch to giving consent to the county level or mayors. I am surprised that from the ranks of parties who daily advocate alleged decentralisation, it is precisely from their ranks that these are not good, that the state should retain these powers, why would it be transferred to the mayors, etc. I think this is a good step in decentralisation and strengthening the authority of the regional and regional self-government leaders, above all, the mayor who will have this authority to give consent to... plans, implementation plans, hence urban planning and detailed arrangements plan and thus will speed up the complete procedure as well. There were also a lot of words about the Law of Ownership, or about interning in tourist areas. I think it has already been explained by the minister about what it is, as well as colleague Marina Matulović Dropulić, on behalf of the club, made it very clear which model is being worked on. In this way, sharing is known to all those who are engaged in tourist activity and it is known that in this way and investors are made easier to manage those projects that have and, of course, additional investment after the sale of the part of the property and after the staging that is possible and so far was as we could hear under the Property Act, and the working models were present, the minister explained very precisely how people entered into the ideal part of ownership and how special contracts were contracted with the one that built the project and thus acquired ownership of certain apartments. But what's extremely important is that there's no repurpose of that space. The tourist zone remains a tourist zone and, in this sense, the retention of tourist activity is really of primary interest and this law foresees that, therefore, there is no speech to change the tourist purpose of these zones and to turn it into a residential settlement. I don't think there's any concern that something like this would happen because it's a separate tourist zone that is truly complete and functioning interdependent and it's simply impossible to single out a part of such a tourist zone for a residential settlement. But it is equally important that what is said on behalf of the club is that it must sign a contract with the one who maintains a complete tourist zone on maintenance and thus actually commit itself on the other side of this sharing means actually using those months when the owner of a certain apartment or villa that is not in the tourist zone when he is not staying there when he is not spending his vacation in such an object, so that the rest of the year he who manages the tourist zone or hotel which is certainly the central tourist complex of the tourist zone, that he actually manages both that part and that villa, which is owned by a private person and thus is possible to share a profit and that is the basis of the sharing process that is the basis for continuing economic activity in the tourist zone. Further apartmentisation is certainly not encouraged by this law, no apartmentisation is encouraged. Indeed, relations are being arranged here, the issue of a protected coastal belt is being arranged, the area is being further strengthened. The possibility that golf is built at 25 m from the sea is not unusual for those who know the position of golf course in the world, they know well that these positions are very close to and the sea coastal line and that, in that sense, this 25 m proposal would not be some exception and that, in that sense, it is possible with proper and careful planning. Therefore, this bill also facilitates the change in the purpose of jobs unless there are new construction cities that have been significantly difficult so far and it was almost impossible to do so. But here's the law that makes it possible and that's really good. So, it's only about those buildings where there are no additional construction works and where it's unnecessary to even ask for a special type of permit, which is good for all the owners of the space that want to reroute their space from one purpose to another without having to edit their space afterwards. What is important is also this law strengthens the responsibility of the holder of all plans. In this way it is further placed I would say burden on those who produce spatial planning documentation, that they must comply with all the laws and that it must be those who will take responsibility for any failures if they do not comply with the law. In practice today it is very often visible, here we have one case, I will mention it here in Dubrovnik is related to the urban planning, it is related to golf is actually released in the procedure which should not have been released into the procedure because it was not in line with the higher order plan. If by any chance this law had been in place quite safely so as to make plans at lower levels, so all those who were obliged to align the plan with higher levels, therefore with the county plan and the law, so that no such kind of plan that was not in line with the urban plan would have missed it in the process and certainly not to have any doubts by investors, it would have been known exactly what was possible and what was not working. Furthermore, assumptions are being made for prescribing a number of buildings and works that can be built or carried out without local permits or building acts, which is also important for all those who want to deal with certain activities, and this law will further edit it. In this regard, I believe that this proposal is of exceptional quality to amend and supplement the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. So once again, I would like to point out the extremely important acceleration of the procedure by simplifying them, as the removal of the barriers to investment, which I would say to us at this moment is extremely important, but general law-making in this area which is extremely important, as regards tourist zones, protected coastal areas and everything that is actually a real resource for the development of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75423	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Replica has respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75424	Thank you. A respected colleague spoke and noted that certain parties that advocate decentralisation against the fact that mayors bring and give consent. I think he misunderstood his colleague Buric. The HDSB is a party that advocates decentralisation, but Buric spoke about the deadline within which the mayor must give consent, which is 15 days because if someone wants to do their job responsibly, review the entire documentation with an extremely short time period, if it has been borne in mind that the ministry has so far given these consent within 3 or 6 months. Normally, with this decentralisation and advocacy for decentralisation, we are not only committed to decentralisation of powers but also to fiscal decentralisation and to changing this state where 92% of all fiscal revenues enter the state budget, and only 8% are shared by units of local self-government, including the county and the City of Zagreb, and they are making it impossible for the centralisation of the state to develop and develop evenly all parts of Croatia. So what is unnecessary is fiscal decentralisation, not just decentralisation of powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75425	Thank you very much. Replica response, Honored Representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75426	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I understood your colleague Buric well, but not only did Buric speak about decentralisation and transfer of powers to the mayor but they also spoke to other clubs such as HNS, but he obviously did not read well. Within 30 days, the county office for spatial planning should give its consent, if it does not, then the mayor is asked for consent from the mayor who gives it within 15 days, with the view that there are no objections from the county's spatial planning office as set out in this proposal to amend the law. But it is not true that fiscal decentralisation has not occurred either, there has been and there is fiscal decentralisation, so only when you look at income tax and everything else that strengthened the budgets of local self-government units where there is more intensive economic activity. Of course, you rule out the fact that certain types of tax have been transferred to the state, but because they have not been properly distributed. Let's say a particular profit tax. The INA that made money throughout Croatia exclusively left profits and taxes on that basis in the City of Zagreb, where their headquarters were located. So, this... the state has taken over, but has therefore strengthened the function of helping certain parts of Croatia that have not been developed through the state budget, and has further strengthened local self-government units through income tax. [[You don't understand.]] So, I don't think it's your remark. And in this particular case, the position of mayors will indeed be strengthened and in this way we will transfer powers to the regional and regional self-government, but only in the area of urban planning and detailed arrangements... implementing documents in spatial construction. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75427	Thank you very much. Next up is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75428	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary with an associate. When we talk about a law of this importance, which applies of course to the management of space, but also to certain economic assumptions that can then be realized in the future, it is important to say that when adopting this law, it is important that everyone is involved in the debate, that in some way everyone can give their input and their observations on the proposal. And that's why I'm pleased that this law goes into two readings, which is not an emergency procedure, which will be time for certain things to change, debate and propose. No matter what here seems a little bit and unserious when the law changes in two months twice, so we had the last change in May of this year, although it was justed by compliance with the acquis of the European Union, but nevertheless, it means the same law, two changes in two months, a little unseriously looking. And you will have to admit that the ministry should then make more comprehensive changes in order not to discuss the same thing twice in two months, or the same law, fashion not the same things at the Assembly session. It is definitely problematic for me and the law mentions that a greater role and greater meaning is given to the Strategy for the Spatial Development of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, we adopted the last strategy in '97. A year. Has anything changed in Croatia since then, absolutely. We have the infrastructure that was built, the highway that was built in 2000, in 2001, completed all these years, and normally that the need of a document to deal with the strategy of spatial development of the Republic of Croatia is now different than it was 14 years ago. And that's normally the lack that essentially misses the Republic of Croatia, we don't have a quality strategy how we plan to manage space, how to use it, which parts to protect etc. Of course, some do, but since the situation has changed significantly, it absolutely needs to be complemented. The fact that this law must take special care of the most valuable area of the Republic of Croatia, and if we look at both economic and valuable and whatever, it is the area of the Adriatic coast and we need to be particularly careful when we make certain provisions that change things there. As far as pitching is concerned, I'm going straight to the ground. I'm not inclined to do so and I don't think it's a good thing that there's a possibility that within the hotel and tourist zones there's a lot of land and in this way that one hotel that has, I know 200, 300, 500 rooms are pitched in such a way that you can finally sell it in 500 individual units. This smells like privatisation to me, I would say 90 years of HDZ type where hotels that are still state-owned will thus privatise to individual privates and then overprivileged land will no longer be used for economic purposes, will not be used to attract tourists in Croatia, but will sell individual properties, individual apartments and thus go into privatisation. Of course it shouldn't be an emergency. On the other hand, investors who operate a hotel in a tourist belt or who worked it up to a few years ago in a tourist belt will be in an unfair relationship with those who worked it in the construction area. Now, in some ways, this thing is equating, and then it will be possible to sell and record individual apartments within the tourist site. Of course it shouldn't be a rule. And I hope by the second reading that thing will be changed. As far as construction and distance are concerned, I would say from the shore, it is interesting that only one kind of sports content is particularly emphasized in this Law. It's about golf. So you have an article before you talk about economic activity on the islands and on the coast when we deal with agriculture, and it's put there to build it from 100 meters to 50 meters to the coast. But here's a golf course. 25. I expect if we continue this way that we may reach the next reading of the law, the second reading of the law to the coast, or perhaps even the beach itself. I hope, of course, I'm a bit of a cartoon. I hope that's not how we're not going to re-apply to just one kind of sport, sports activity, sports content that we have on the coast. I don't see any reason why any economic activity would have a separate status and that golf could really get that close to the sea belt, to the sea border, and other things wouldn't. Of course, I agree with my colleague Holy when we talk about islands and shores and the construction of certain forms of renewable energy sources, I see no reason why it would not be possible to build such objects and closer to the coast, especially when it comes to buildings and residential and the possibility of building on them capacities that would collect solar energy. So these things should still be done by the second reading. I absolutely agree that it is good to shorten terms of opinion, confirmation of consent, etc. to speed up the process of changing spatial plans to help the economy. But I don't agree that the deadline for public insight is being cut short. I don't see that these let's be said for seven days, because it's now shortening from 15 to 8 days that something special will be won in time, and I think the public who should have an insight for at least 15 days and who, in some way, might not be so interested in business sometimes must have a longer period of time than is foreseen in these changes. So, for everyone who follows absolutely that, you cut the deadlines from 90 to 30, 60 to 30 days because these people are paid to work efficiently, faster, etc. But the public who is there as an interested party I think should stay as it has been so far and don't cut those deadlines, because 7 days really won't mean anything in the process of changing certain plans. As for one more thing, and I see that the building of a particle is defined as having to be 60 percent greenery or park only for sports purposes, and to erase that any particle, or whether it's building or sports purposes, is now not identical. I absolutely believe it should remain as it has been. I don't see why building capacity would increase more than 60% regardless of what the purpose of particles is. And another thing that I think is important to mention in article 59 when the Republic of Croatia or the local community is obliged to sell its part of the particle to achieve construction on a given space. It's increased now from 20 to 50%. I'm saying again, I don't agree with that, because I expect, in the next draft of the law, we might put it in the second reading if someone has only 10% that the state owes him or the local community to sell. I don't think we should raise that line this way, that 20% has been enough so far because that way we can do with a smaller part, I'd say particles come up with an absolute right to get to the whole particle and later build on it. Which is why the state or local community would be obliged to sell if it is owned by the same person as any private person or legal person, which is why she would be obliged to sell her part of the particle if she didn't want to, and now the law prescribes it. Here I said these five, six things that I think should be done by the second reading. I hope it goes in that direction. The fact that I agree with everything that will help to adapt the plans faster, that I would say in the function of developing Croatia both spatial and economic, but I do not agree that this is how the law is used in these parts to pressure the most valuable space of the Republic of Croatia. As far as I'm concerned, I think it's, of course, the Adriatic coast, and that there's a certain number of benefits being made to certain groups, individuals or companies at the small door. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75429	Thank you very much. Three are the corrections of an incorrect quote and one replica. Let's go, corrections. First respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75430	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First, the minister is with an associate, not an associate we welcome. The second you incorrectly stated that it was possible to plot and prepare a hotel. It doesn't say anything in this law. This law should be read. This is not a picture book as my colleagues say here, so you can watch it, but the law needs to be read and read. So it's impossible to pitch at all in the tourist zone and T1 and T2 it's impossible to pitch, and it's impossible to record and sell within the hotel itself. What we're talking about is standing in villas and apartments that are part of tourist zones, T1 knows how much of the percentage is possible in the villa apartment, and T2 also knows how much is possible. So it's not about the possibility of staging and landing inside a hotel, a hotel complex, it's simply not possible, it's not possible, it's not about the law, so it would be a good idea to look at the bill a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75431	Thank you very much. The next amendment has a respected representative, Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75432	Well, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister with an associate. Here's the first incorrect one that's already corrected by a colleague, and I'm going to fix what Mr. Maras said, it's golf-related, so according to this law it's strict, and here it's forbidden 25 meters from the sea at all, and it's just that you have to read the law when you look at it, and then comment on it, and as you comment on the privatisations, I think you meant the hotel privatisations probably Mr. Linic, that's so-called. Linic's Adriatic hotels, so that's probably a luxury.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75433	Thank you very much. And another correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75434	My colleague Maras, just one note, when you talk about the usability of renewable energy sources, differs from the use of energy facilities for your own use. So for your own use it's not excluded wherever your house was, in the end it already exists today, but building energy facilities with, supported by renewable energy sources is a different story. And for golf, not because of golf, but 25 meters or 5 meters from the sea of grass I don't think anyone should mind, and as far as objects are concerned, they're built by other criteria anyway. So it doesn't matter. And through the debate, I'm going to do all the other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75435	Thank you very much. Replica has respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75436	Dear counterpart Maras, I hope you didn't literally think when you said that the Adriatic is the most valuable part of Croatia, I believe that every part of Croatia is equally valuable, including the Blue Adriatic, up to the golden grains and plains of Slavonia, which feeds Croatia, but unfortunately the worst lives today, thanks to the centralization of this country. The fact is that income tax has been taxed somewhere from one million to two million kunas in local self-government units in Slavonia, but it's lost to profit tax somewhere around 20, and that's from companies that are from the Slavonia area. I wasn't talking about public enterprises, and it was extremely bad, which went only to the city of Zagreb, but... It is necessary to amend the system where the profit tax will be evenly distributed not through the ministries, but through tax law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, both this whole law and this whole debate is based exclusively on what will be with one room in a hotel on the Adriatic, or one apartment on the Adriatic. Tourism exists also in the continental part of Croatia, but exclusive marketing is also linked to the Ministry of Tourism, related to the Adriatic, while the least money is invested in the development of tourism on the continent. And as far as renewable energy sources are concerned, I repeat that there is no legal regulation and a provision whereby Croatia's electricity industry will buy that excess energy, but unfortunately today and tonight, Croatia's electricity industry, which today throughout Croatia, is excavated by companies to non-payment of accounts and citizens who are increasingly living, despite HDZ saying that they live well in Croatia, pays money to Hungary, Austria to receive excess electricity to maintain electricity stability and hydrocentrals and systems every day. Let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75437	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica has a representative named Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75438	Thank you very much. Mr Vinkovic, of course we are not talking about Dalmatia and Slavonia, all this is too valuable and no inch of Croatian country can be less valuable than the other. But now we're talking about what this law wants done. I understood very well, no matter what tourism experts from HDZ, Mrs. Sumrak and Mr. Matušić speak of tourism, and this is that the possibility is that tourist companies that are still state-owned. Let me give you an example. Hotel Medena is worth too much land and apartment settlements, it will now be possible to privatise such a hotel, hotel settlement, tourist resort, in a way that is set up and sold to privates. That's not what we want. That's not what we want. We want to develop an offer, develop content, and we do not want to park and sell on apartments what is now possible by this law. Which is why I really don't understand, except for this interest that someone privatizes it and then sells it to smaller units, and then there's this story about this sharing, etc., please it has nothing to do with the connection. It is solely a wish that such large settlements still owned by the state to give privatisation to smaller parts, and it should not stand in this law, I do not see any normal reason why it would remain so. And of course, about who privatised Croatia, citizens know everything, in the '90s they're a long way behind us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75439	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75440	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 209, a colleague except for not reading, seems to be unseemable, probably under the influence of his colleague Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75441	This was nothing, especially the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Okay. The word on behalf of the promoter has respected Minister Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75442	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I answered after Mr. Maras had his presentation, and then I'll look back at the part of the presentation of other fellow MPs and counsellors. But here, they have corrected the allegations that are really not true. In fact, Mrs. twilight said well that this law further tightens and makes the law more stringent when it comes to golf. According to the current law, the golf course could be a maritime good, so to the sea border, with 25 metres from it to begin the line of the playground itself. We are now saying by this law that this playground can only begin after 25 meters. So the stricter criteria are compared to the existing law. The second thing, of course, should be rejected so that this law allows for the establishment not only of the hotel but of all the facilities in the catering and accommodation purposes. So, these are hotels, apartments, all possible types of facilities in which a catering or tourist activity is carried out next to the accommodation. I already said that on two occasions this morning, and now I have to repeat again so that clearly in public it would not remain an impression that it was intending to prepare hotels as well. Even though there are cases like this in the world. However, we in the Ministry, in the Government, hold in the Republic of Croatia that such a provision should not be included, there is no need to include the law itself, and henceforth, the existing law which has been made possible by this law is more clearly determined, but more clearly and determined by the brakes which are being prevented from being misused. Namely, what is important is that the object that is being kept on the ground must remain for tourist purposes and there is no possibility of re-use. It is wrong to connect, which has already been mentioned on several occasions this morning, that it will first be published, and then even after the shortened procedure provided for by this law will be re-used for example from tourism for residential purposes. The law here explicitly states that it cannot be in tourist zones. The possibility of resuscitation provided for by this law applies to those facilities, which Mrs. Matulović Dropulić already spoke about in her presentation, only those objects for which, in a particular zone of mixed purpose, it is possible, by one act, if there are no construction procedures on that facility, to be re-scheduled from, for example, residential to tourist in a residential zone, but only in a zone where one and another activity is envisaged. That's important. Therefore, in order not to require an entity where there is no construction work, the applicant would have to submit a request for a location permit or a request for confirmation of the main project and then ask for a useful permit, and no construction work on it had happened, we simplified the procedure to now, by one act, by one solution to that re-use. In doing so, what is important is that this new purpose of space cannot be contrary to the purpose of the zone itself. That's important. So if we were to allow investors, the owners of the facilities, if they could reroute without the long-term procedure they would do the same, they would only re-design a second procedure that takes a year, two days. That's what this is about. So this re-use is possible under the current law, but it requires 3 documents, asking for time, cost, money and procedure. This now changes this law in a way that does not need this procedure, that three solutions so far are practically changed with one solution. And another important thing, I think it's here in the debate, and it's already straightened out, it doesn't mean it's a plotting. That's important to say. It can't be done by staging a villa or an apartment to create a new plot around my apartment or my villa. The remaining area is under management by the company that manages the tourist settlement. I can't as the owner of that facility now all those utility services that the owner of a residential property in the settlement pays off to the local self-government unit. I am still an obligator of waste disposal, of public lighting payments, of all those joint transactions that take place in the zone, of signing with the company that continues to use and which owns the entire sector, the whole of that land and the entire settlement. And it is an important point that this building that can be established remains an integral part of that settlement, and we will allow a special contract to sell important relations between the company that owns this tourist settlement and the future owner if this purchase comes to an end with this contract where the property will primarily remain in the function of tourism and in the function of renting or something else that is important and the main element of the settlement itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75443	Thank you very much. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75444	Thank you very much. Well, it's actually the last finding. Take one hotel, I don't know how many apartments there are, no matter how much one company will run, but let's just say when 50 foreign citizens buy some apartments and rooms, I don't think I see how these apartments are going to function anymore. Because he doesn't need reception anymore, I mean, he doesn't need it, he doesn't need it. ... Here, that's not clear to me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, not so let's actually do it next time the minister comes forward and explains. I'm interested in that intensity, I don't know. I'm interested because this... Well, at least I expected some tolerance from you, Mr. Roshin, for some others not, but from you, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let it not be my profession. So does this story therefore open the Spanish model of privatisation in tourism? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75445	Here, thank you very much for asking. Let's move on to the individual hearings. Dear Representative Boris Matkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75446	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Here, we've heard about the same introductions this morning, so here I'm going to say that there are additions and changes to the Construction Act that were necessary. We'll hear about it later. The additions, like any addition from any law we have discussed at that level, have led to doubts and different views, debates and needs, or the need to complement this one, and this one, in particular, because it is a single addition to the law that is actually interesting to all of us, but in any case, it should be unique to all of us in terms of the shifts that need to be made. Namely, what I was going to say here. We all know that spatial plans are a fundamental document of development of each unit of local self-government, regional self-government or the Republic of Croatia in terms of overall strategic development. Sometime since 2007, a lot has changed. In particular, the situation on the ground has changed, and I believe that this is certainly a crucial reason why it was necessary to supplement this Law. In fact, I wanted to say what the predecessors said, which is that, in terms of the very spatial planning documentation and the making of the adoption, but also the implementation of it has come to the realization that, specifically in the knowledge and speed that it can be obtained, what we call "papers" is a building permit, these are the applicable permits, these are the legal things that have cost certain release speeds that led to the need to be speeded up in a certain way and the adoption and the implementation of all these documents and the acts that follow it. In addition, we can confirm this in particular with the information we find in addition, which is that it was necessary between 450 and 510 days for a whole process of making and adopting spatial plans. It's still a time that's long enough. Also another piece of information in support of what I said was necessary is the information we have from the World Bank's implementation or examination of the time in which the process of granting a building permit in the Republic of Croatia was conducted, so we are from 783 countries in 132 places, and this is also the information that goes in favour of the proposal to supplement and amend the Construction Act. So what we should say anyway is that the shortness we see in 200 days is actually very important. In fact, it is important to point out that this acceleration of the production and adoption of spatial planning documents, detailed arrangements, etc., building acts not only talk about this deadline reduction, but we are talking about something that should absolutely be supported, which will lead to new investments, new investments, and, therefore, to the fullness of the economic shift as a whole. Some will say it goes hand in hand to investors but we must support investment and investors without it, without them there is no movement forward, it is also indicative. What is also important for me to point out is that not only is this about the speed and deadlines that promote the achievement and overall when we look at it, but it is about that this law that every citizen of every individual of the Republic of Croatia will also be able to produce the necessary documentation quite quickly. What I couldn't agree on yesterday is, and today I see in the discussion of some colleagues that the speed itself, the acceleration of the deadlines, etc., something that could lead to certain errors in the procedure itself, which means I conclude that the current law that has long lasted and in their words meant that any problem could be seen more comprehensively, and that means control and the like, is not good. I think just cutting deadlines means for me is a sign of equality of simplification, then I think it's a quality in which the possibility of errors in the entire procedure is still less. Why? Well, that can be seen on examples all depends on who's actually working on it. Namely, we who come from local self-government units have experience with either pleasant or unpleasant or positive or negative. Namely, if it is there for you to issue a building permit, if it works and if the person under number one is a lawyer, then you have problems for sure, 100%, with all due respect to colleagues and fellow lawyers so you don't get me wrong. But if you have an engineer, a practicer of man, it goes much faster and more effectively because he understands the operationality and need of therefore a unit of local self-government but also an individual and every citizen. It's one of my approaches to something I've seen and I'm a man led by one of the local self-government units. So I'm going to go back to this because it's important for me to cut deadlines and quality on which to work, and therefore the idea that this should absolutely be supported in terms of encouraging and supporting entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs, because I can't accept either the concept or the interpretation again, and I have to tell the conveniences of the investors they're talking about, and it's also a positive question that depends on what level we're looking at, can look at not only in a negative, but also in a positive way. A good guess can also be positive. I mean absolutely can be positive. So the notion of the convenience that some people are talking about is I don't think it's exactly being used in that direction today, and I think what we're doing right now is a positive benefit that should mean a shift at all, so a developmental one that we expect from spatial plans as basic documents, each unit of local self-government. What we are also talking about today when it comes to the quality of the production of spatial planning documents and documentation projects, in order to protect it completely is whether, in the sense of this law, the price list of chamber services, authorised architects, engineers. Okay, maybe it's going to the architects' hand, let's say so, but in my opinion, that means changing the Public Procurement Act, and I think we should discuss that too. It was also discussed how and on what market relationship prices are, etc. The price may be low, but as such often leads to the acceleration of a process, but then the question of quality is ultimately questionable. What I'd still like to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75447	Time. Time's up a minute ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75448	It is in the second, second reading. I thank you, just. The second reading will open up opportunities, even though we had much more to do with what could be proposed, and opinions to discuss, and I hope that therefore the honourable minister and government will therefore discuss and that it will be of quality, and that we will be able to support it all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75449	Thank you very much. Here's three lines, so you'll be able to say one more thing in your answers. First of all, the respected representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75450	Thank you very much. Well, mostly I agree with my colleague as he was saying, and I think this type of law is necessary for us to actually have a more orderly and efficient state completely. But I'm not sure the solutions to this bill, that the administration that's related to these jobs will be more effective. Unfortunately, taught by experience. Why? Because the Croatian administration at which you want the level is still irrational, disorganised, and inefficient. If you want, you've talked about it yourself. I'm not talking about networking between different lobbying stakeholders. Remember the garter affair, remember all the regrets we've witnessed in recent years. In fact, why I don't think this goal will be met. So because we won't have, we still don't have a full strategic, and then we don't have a plan story, because we're going to get into a situation, at least that's how I see things, that we're actually going to adjust our plans to real situations on the ground, and that's where I see the space of manipulation. We will specifically open this story with another law that I believe is the same today we will open this story in part, come to the agenda. So I think we have to look at the whole principle and way of working the state through this administrative or bureaucratic way you want the apparatus. That the mayor after a month or not knows how many days, if he doesn't, then he won't be able to make a decision. It's wrong. Ma Mayor should replace him if he does not give a negative or positive solution within 30 days. So this principle of organisation and functioning of the administration needs to be set differently, with these solutions of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75451	Thank you very much. Replica response, MP Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75452	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you see, fellow Lucin, and we're bringing changes and additions, just so that everything along with these changes and additions that we're going to bring is more effective, to make it faster, more efficient, to cut deadlines, so that's the essence of everything. So we can't really talk about it that way, I'm just an example of one, or you're using it now no, that's the question, so that's why this one approach, especially with the institution now the county that's issuing those permits. And so what you're saying about the mayor and this, I think it's a step forward, because if we're talking about decentralisation in the overall sense, then this is decentralisation, then we're transferring from the ministry to the service, and then to the mayor, so we're actually strengthening not only that institution, but we're coming up with what the goal of all of us is, that it's going to speed up something. So he gets powers by which these deadlines will be shortened and accelerated, and I think these laws, I say again, I'm going back to that, so these additions that we're doing right now are going in that sense, we're just talking about the quality and reduction of deadlines and acceleration. Therefore, we will force all those working to be effective, not slow. That's why it's about the acceleration supplements.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75453	Thank you. Next replica, and respected representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75454	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's fellow Matkovic, I actually agree with you when you claim that good spatial planning documentation is a basic prerequisite for all, I repeat every development of each unit of local and regional self-government. At the same time, I must say and give an answer to Mr. Lucin, who, in fact, mentioned in his replica towards you, touched the implementation of documents of spatial planning documents. If we listened carefully to our minister, it could also be concluded from his address, so the office for the implementation of plans of spatial planning documentation is not singled out, but is just fine with these amendments and additions of the law, as it will also enable this and better application of the law that we are talking about. Personally, I have a great experience, a five-year experience in bringing spatial planning documentation into the big city, because we know what, which reforms have all followed in this segment as well, and definitely bringing spatial planning documentation for the city of Sibenik two changes and the addition of the spatial planning of the city of Sibenik, which is definitely the highest in turn, a whole series of urban planning arrangements, a whole series of detailed planning arrangements, and the general urban plan that we started making during the old law, has already been introduced in public debate already during the local election campaign when the new government has suspended the whole process that I regret. Well, I don't have any information at which stage it is, and that's too bad. In conclusion, I keep in line with you, Mr. Matkovic, a quality law that will speed up procedures, save big money, and thus ensure that units of local and regional development are fully developed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75455	Thank you very much. And the replica has a respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75456	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I think fellow Matkovic used one false term when he was talking about guessing. I think that you should have used the expression to create assumptions for faster project implementation, because it really is not about any bargaining, nor... it is about the state being aware that it is necessary to shorten the deadlines through certain procedures to ensure that as quickly as possible investments are made on the basis of spatial planning documentation which must comply with the law with all the plans of the higher order etc. It is, therefore, not a favoration but exclusively a presumption to speed up the procedure and simplifying it in order to remove barriers to investment. That's what it's all about, removing obstacles and creating assumptions for faster development. And once again about centralised or decentralisation. Here we are today witnessing that those who argue daily allegedly for decentralisation when they have a proposal for decentralisation to lower powers from the ministry to the county or mayor, then they oppose it because as a state they should retain all these powers. I'm really surprised that we're hearing this from our colleagues who are claiming to be in favour of decentralisation every day. Here's when in practice there's an example in front of them, then they disagree with him.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75457	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75458	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Nothing obvious about this. I don't think my esteemed colleague Franno heard the words before he was shot. Frano writes here also say that by cutting deadlines it is appropriate for investors. So that's what I heard on the boards and I heard it in the debate here. So, they're not mine, I was going to say that "supply" that some people talk about can be positive. So you know in what sense it can be positive. But I accept this language correction to the office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75459	Thank you very much. Here's the next debate of the esteemed representative, Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75460	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I've already been prepared for this debate because it deals with this problem, but here's the debate that's led me to a different approach especially with my colleague Lucino. He's gone, but I'll tell him anyway. After I apologized for my rudeness and the intrusion and disappointment of his regarding my tolerance, to tell him that he was right about the fact that so far most of the plans have destroyed a lot of what was already a state of space, unfortunately such a practice was. However, what makes me change the character of my discussion seems to me to have to give a certain lesson in what the internship in tourist facilities means. Because I can see from all this together that people don't understand and they don't know the problem. My colleague Lucin even said I don't know about it, but he did make remarks anyway. There is no possibility that one who owns one part of the hotel and has its own key can not get to that part of the property without the key controlled by the reception, so there is no possibility of using without reception. It's not autonomous real estate, it's a part of real estate in the function of one whole. It's like one general framework. Secondly, terms are used in completely false terms. Time sharing colleague Frano Matušić, time sharing is not a purchase of real estate. That's how you buy a timesharing stock. Real estate can buy a chain in that one facility, but never an individual. The individual buys a time-share that can be used within that chain in Croatia, in the Bahamas, Russia, in Australia anywhere where that chain has its own. Time sharing means stock time. There is a property share or as the Italians call multiproprieta where I Mr. Mimica, for example. Branko Bačić or anyone together are buying one property and we use that property in advance. In that case, as co-owners of one property muliproprieta in one single facility, not anywhere in the world, we must therefore have a different character of the facility where it is located because each of us needs its own storage room to leave skis, sailing boards, bathing suits and other things. So it's technologically different. The third type of purchase, which is a question of staging, is... buy a too flight, that means that I buy property in one facility, a hotel facility only one fragment I buy and log so that the bank can be recognized as the owner, win any credit and transfer my property to its children, to its successors, but I only use one specific period of the year that I arrange with hotel management and then my property is functioned as any other part of the hotel that is rented. Why is that wise and wise? Because every owner of that property that he has established in one facility is obliged to pay the cost of maintenance of the hotel. In such a way with the hotel sold in the entire hotel administration there is a guaranteed annual income for maintenance costs. And I'm happy that time doesn't exactly use the hotel my apartment, my room, my apartment, rents to others, rents out of that rent I pay my maintenance costs and property and possibly participates in profit. Resons for such an internship, the blades for such construction are first in that I will buy this property only if it is in a certain hotel system, regardless of whether it is T1 and T2 we use which are actually architectural categories, and not tourist categories, so that when it comes to summer, it will find a clean and neat apartment, a spacious apartment, a room, an apartment that I have, watered and decorated flowers, all bulbs up, heating works, air conditioning, there is no problem. And not to come to my cottage, so I lose seven days while I put everything in my place, and then again three, four days before I travel to fix it. So it is some kind of life wisdom that already exists in the world and that we are trying to bring to us and there is a market in Croatia. God forbid in my opinion that 50 thousand of us who can do it or out of the outside show that these people live in Croatia not for a month but for 6 months a year and spend everything that is problematic in the country from which they come. So, it's an internship, and it has nothing to do with the plot and the colleagues they use, it's not a plot, it's a plot, because it's not a parcel, it's a plot. It is so often wrong in speech, because of the purity of the language that has been officially used as Croatian for 150 years in this Assembly. So it's very important to understand what an internship means. Not in buildings that are only apartments, only units can be converted into permanent addresses, but within the tourist complex, within the tourist unit, as much as the market would receive. In doing so, this property does not give the right of a permanent address, it is not your permanent address, it is not the address to which you are called for elections, it cannot be converted into a space of dwellings and for this reason cannot be sought by the owner of kindergartens, schools and everything else they seek in normal housing units and, unfortunately, what happened in Split Žnanja in which they participated negatively in all the structures of the individual to the country have turned one tourist zone into a residential zone and all when they moved into a tourist zone near the sea are now lacking in both kindergartens and schools and everything else, they are the participants of that own lack. In this case, it is something that is clean in Europe and the whole world acceptable and I don't see any problem with this. But a special aspect is very important because in Croatia there has developed a very high sensitivity for corruption and the corrupt measures that can be found in this. I'd say this on the table solves the problems that are being solved below today. Apartmentisation and concreteisation would not be at least not so much if there was a possibility of such purchase. I can name and last name you people who bought apartments in Split like their other houses, seasonal houses for summer stay there. IF they had the opportunity to buy in Marijan Hotel, Split Hotel, Bellevue or any hotel then maybe they wouldn't have that situation because it gives them a greater guarantee and quality of service because they can order a cleaning lady every day to change their chain, bed linen and that I have to take care of the language here or order catering that is now used in Croatia, delivering food to the room, and everything else the hotel provides. It seems to me that it was important for me to use my time to explain that it is not going in the wrong direction and that the parcelation does not exist as a category, it is absolutely right for Dropulić to be interned and the lotion has no connection in the extreme case in the Law is so talked about. I would take advantage of the opportunity for just two more things to say and the rest of the materials for some specific technical solutions including the price list of architects because I think that price list is necessary but not binding, so as architects within the chamber, we agree on how much we will... let you get to work but can't public procurement in the private sector but is bound to do so. But the thing that's very important for this, it's three acres of property of a registered economy that gives you the right to build houses of 200 square meters, and we've already introduced it as a single regulation-enabled practice, it's important to say that there is no possibility on the islands of one plot of three hectares, but that three hectares were the basis for possible economic activity that made it possible for us to build an object of 200 squares for economic purposes but also with a part of that facility and for housing. Therefore, whoever has three hectares of a reported country of economic activity should be able to build this one building and on a plot of a building plot which is less than three hectares because there are no plots of three hectares but to say that there can be no less than 1000 or a thousand and a half, otherwise there is no solution on the islands you will not find plots of three hectares. And as for the distance of construction from the sea, and I still think that the 70 meters of measures given to the PDO are appropriate, although originally we offered 100 in the proposal for a regulation, however, in the parliamentary procedure of these 100 was not accepted, so it was returned to 70. Searching for 100 is now a little too special compared to islands, 50 is too close, but the question is how high this building is at 50 or 70 meters from the sea. So 70 meters from the sea is a measure that's appropriate and okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75461	Thank you very much. One is a replica, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75462	You spent a good part of the debate just exposing, explaining what a plot is, however, these are the concepts of the Law of Ownership and other real rights which of course must be used by this law. You also say that citizens talk about this often, they give criticism and they don't know what this is about. The experience of our citizens teaches that whenever they swear, they didn't understand that it wasn't good for them. Therefore, it is not necessary to underestimate its own citizens. In fact, good citizens know that the management of space and the abuse of governance, especially at local levels, has led to great injustice, and in the end it is a textbook example of how the area of corruption is the largest in the management of space. And one transparent behavior exactly in the planning, and that's not what it is, we know that some plans, for example, in Zadar where the general plan has already made a detailed urgency, and such a urgency where only the Pygmies can live, I'm just telling you an example, I hope it doesn't pass with the Resord Ministry. Secondly, the issue of construction and this is certainly going on right now at the next point that we will have, the inspectors have found, it's being built on someone else's side, it's covering the view of those who have neatly all the papers, there's a solution to removing that building for years but it's not being acted at all, and now the citizens are asking themselves the normal question of whether it's going to be legal and so on. So, of course, the legislation of those things that are in the building zone, which no one mind where there are no co-ownership disputes but not these things. So, it's not the law that you can vent your cottage, the house-winding law. And an internship and what do you say you're going to be able to raise a loan? Flooring is done for a variety of reasons, and the main reason is precisely to register ownership and that the joint property has its owner on a particular part of the property. Of course, you've explained the plot well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75463	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica has a respected representative, Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75464	As for the ventilation of fellow Anticevic, it's important that we don't vent, you know that it doesn't explode from the head, that we don't go to the yeast, and that the bottle is open to God and ask you since there's no more. And second of all, as far as the lesson you've rightly said that citizens don't give. What I was saying here was not about the citizens, but about the MPs, and unfortunately what I was saying was because many MPs, I saw from the debate, do not distinguish these terms. And as for the public and the citizens, I am at the disposal of citizens for presses, stands, conferences, participations in anything, to explain what the citizens are interested in. And as for the Pigmies, I agree with you, but I don't think that any... The first Pygmies because we Pigmies aren't even Japanese, but the Parliament is not the administration to discuss some specific subjects. [[You don't understand.]] We have a place to talk about, but the standards we set, we set here in the Parliament. Of course politics plays a significant role, I saw it yesterday and at a committee meeting where policies can find arrangements in some things, but the profession is a profession. So the Pygmies may be able to, but we couldn't stop. And as for the lesson, I thought Shime Lucin... Because he started that story. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75465	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75466	... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75467	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75468	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, your colleagues and colleagues. Well, we've heard a lot about this law already, and maybe we're spinning, we've been saying the same thing all morning. The fact is, there's no universal recipe for space management, and the fact is that every country edits its space in the way it thinks it's best. Croatia and the Croatian Parliament passed the law in 2004. We heard him say this morning that the minister who said it was a good law, we don't want to change his concept, but the fact is that during the application of the law, there was a series of shortcomings, and that's why we're going to change and supplement this law. Whether in the first degree or in the second instance, irregularities were observed and procedures were accelerated. It does not wish to violate the fundamental essence of the law, but the fact that it is necessary to simplify and make the various procedures for the adoption of acts much more flexible. This can be confirmed from experience that the adoption of plans took too long at local level due to the procedure. The government's action plan to remove investment barriers and the great government's economic recovery plan should also not be disrupted. The fact is that we need to enable investments to come to our space as quickly and as easily as possible, means faster investments, but not only for large investors, but above all for our citizens and citizens. We also see from this argument, we heard from the debate that a number of discussions were held with professional organisations, with chambers of architects, builders, with associations of cities and municipalities, that all relevant institutions participated in the proposal of this law, that NGOs also participated. All together has contributed to the democraticity of the adoption of this law. Why this is important, because I don't think this law has a citizen or citizen, there is no legal or natural person in the Republic of Croatia that this law does not touch. You've only seen how much time we've spent, and even Mr. Roshin has spent his entire debate on internships. Only one article of this law needed to be explained. The fact is that they all come to a book once or at a location or construction site or want to do business. So there is no citizen or citizen of Croatia who is not interested in this law and therefore I welcome that we have first reading and that we will probably contribute with a number of proposals to the satisfaction of all groups in the second reading of the law. What's particularly important is that we cut deadlines, if that's 210 days from now I think it's optimal. The need to draw up plans has also been reduced. A detailed plan of arrangements and urban planning, but I would like to ask later if either the Secretary of State or the Minister because I have heard two different opinions, to explain what is going on with the current spatial plans and the GUPs. The current GUP or spatial plan of the municipality or the city provides for these detailed plans, which today this law says are not to be worked on. It means whether these GUPs are still in effect and more importantly, the law we bring or those GUPs that have been passed and whether to approach the amendment and supplement these spatial plans. It is also very important to note that the opportunity for obtaining a local authorisation is given to the parties, i.e. citizens, to obtain documents themselves and thus to speed up the whole procedure. We also heard that the previous debate is about small changes in plans, when it comes to targeted or so on. the pointal changes that will be possible without a previous debate, which is also one progress. And what is also important is that investors and through this law are allowed to finance plans. If there is no money in the city and municipality budget, a contract can also be concluded without public procurement procedures if the investor does so, as quickly as possible. I think it was a very good practice already in some cities and also in our city, but I think it's very important because the city or municipality doesn't have that much money in the budget at that point, and investors want to work and there's no point in being an obstacle. We heard a lot about decentralisation this morning. I absolutely advocate decentralisation and I think it's very good that regardless of the different opinions we've heard from both the club and the wider that, when it comes to protecting the coastal belt, it gives the mayors a choice only in part of the PDO. Because there's no point in repeating it, but we keep talking about decentralisation, when this is another one of those functions, then we don't trust the mayors. So I took a turn, looked at the mayors all over the Adriatic coast, so it's five counties, in three counties are HDZ mayors, in one of the SDPs, in one of the IDS. So we don't trust the mayors he chose directly in the election, I think we should give them a chance through this provision of the law. I also see that it is very good, and I welcome that there are assumptions about a number of buildings that will not require permission from this law. It is also possible to establish a particle for regular use of the building. What I also want to welcome, what the minister said in his original presentation this morning, is that the possibility of a contract between investors and units of local self-government will allow the investor to invest in infrastructure. This is what is a major obstacle to all investments because cities and municipalities have no money, just as they do not have the money to make plans so they have no money to make up infrastructure and I think it is a good opportunity to allow them to make on behalf of a municipal contribution or on behalf of a water contribution to compensate for their investment in infrastructure in that area. We've heard a lot about standing up and I think it's clear, it's important that there's no change in purpose, that no change in purpose can be made under this, and I think that's what's important to avoid that expression of apartmentization. When it comes to county institutes as plan makers. I support this proposal originally in your law, regardless of what we've heard of it, that small municipalities and cities don't have the money to pay high prices to plan makers, but I also believe that in a direct conflict of interest are county institutions. They are the ones who give consent or opinions on spatial plans and at the same time bring them in. In my opinion, it is simply not acceptable for this reason, not for these financial reasons, and I think it should be when it comes to the prices of chamber we heard that they can adapt, and at the same time I know that there are not enough designers on the market of plans that are licensed to draw up a plan and that is why county institutions are formed but in this sense it is necessary to see how their dual role can be avoided. I have asked a question for the already submitted GUPs, which will be with detailed plans that are in the GUPs I would like to ask again, will change and add to the GUP, or will this detailed plan be thrown out by GUP automation. That doesn't make any sense to me. When it comes to golf and 25 meters, I'm sorry there aren't any of those who talked about it here this morning, so the world's best terrain in the world is at 0 meters from the sea, on the sea itself, so it's not even maritime good. So let's give a little flexibility, I don't know what this particular reference is, it's certainly not ours on Srd, because he's at 413 feet high and he's not at sea. However, it will obviously be near the sea somewhere and there is no reason not to make it possible, I support such a proposal. As far as the coastal line is concerned, I'd like to comment on something here. On the islands you know or on the Peljesac peninsula there is a lot of households that are not themselves to blame for their property located right by the sea, specifically in the area of Dingac and still at the end of Peljesac. So their entire estate is located by the sea itself and just because they came into possession of such a property and live on it, I think they need to be liberalized and this is the way you suggested to move the coastal line because unfortunately they can't even build an economic facility today. Of course, here I do not support manipulations relating to various tycoons and various conveniences, but here I think of the original owners of the land, the owners of the vineyards specifically on the islands, but I especially think of the island of Peljesac and I ask that it be reconsidered and to see if it can remain such a provision as you wrote in the first reading. Anyway, it's hard to reconcile development and space. We want to develop, we want to make investments at the same time we want to preserve space, I understand that it is difficult, I hope that this law will achieve its optimum by the second reading and that we will all agree about it because, as we see here, there are no major disputes about us except that we want to contribute to the maximum preservation of space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75469	Thank you very much. We have a replica of Honorable Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75470	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, for your distinguished colleague, Shuica, when you spoke about the county institutions and their role, the finding remains that it would be a great burden for units of local self-government, but there was no sense that the law had just forced the county to set up these county institutions and to tell them and just one of the basic activities so far has been written that the task of creating spatial plans for cities and municipalities and urban planning and performing professional analytical work in spatial planning. This was the reason why the Law ordered the county, and county institutions are not a small cost to the county, and now that we've established them now we're halving that basic activity, what are they going to do? It will only continue to carry out professional analytical tasks from the spatial arrangement. To this end, we did not have to organize them because we therefore transferred a good part of the financial burden to the county. And when it comes to the role of mayor because that's all I would particularly apostrophe for you, colleague Matusic spoke of it, it is not disputed that the mayor should give his consent but what is the basic reason that he had 30 days and is now cutting his deadline to 15 days. If he really wants to commit himself and to study must be harmonised before he signs to be sure that he is in conformity with all the legal regulations, why bring the mayor of any kind into a position to place his signature on something that is not certain that he is in compliance with all possible regulations. So, so far it's been 30 days, we suggest that it stays 30 days, it won't change anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75471	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75472	So as far as these 15 days are concerned, the only reason I understand from the spirit of the law is to shorten the procedure. I don't think there's any reason why the mayor doesn't determine this exactly is the five Adriatic mayors if we understand it well and there's no reason not to compare it with the higher order plan or to help him with this particular county office that you've been talking about, the mayor will certainly not do it personally but will do the county services. When it comes to the county office, I agree, and that's why I think we need to find some measure in that. They don't have municipalities of money, they don't have cities of money, and county institutions have served them excellently for making these plans. But at the same time, it's those who give an opinion on their own plans that they made themselves. In that sense, I think that they are in a difficult conflict of interest, and that is why some solution should be found to deliver them from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75473	Thank you very much. Here's the 7th and the last one in an individual debate is the esteemed representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75474	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. As I understand from your opening presentation, and of course from this debate, it is primarily intervened in the existing law of these amendments and additions in order to incentivise economic activity in some way and to speed up its economic recovery programme in a way that enables potential investors to get their licenses and thus enable them to move towards building facilities that would then benefit the economic recovery. But you've also stated here that interventions in the text of the law can be removed from multiple sights, and I'm going to quote ambiguities and fulfil those obligations. This is what I said earlier, not to change the concept of the law, nor to question the quality of governance and the protection of space, i.e. the achievement of the objective of the law. In this connection, an expert discussion and analysis has been carried out in cooperation with the competent administrative authorities and institutions of the counties, cities, municipalities, their associations, and with interested institutions, professional associations, associations of citizens, which confirmed and expanded the knowledge and possible ways to address the observed shortcomings. So, despite the fact that it says that you had a big and good public debate when amending and supplementing this law, if that's what you're telling me why, then, if you've been discussing with the county and county institutions, you've remained in the law of what wasn't in the law before. It's not like the county institutes themselves suggested it, that they don't have to and can't make spatial plans anymore. I don't think it's logical or anything. If you consulted them, they certainly disagreed with the fact that from this law these amendments and additions are made in this way as the exceptions say here. I also confirm what colleagues from the position in the debate have said, that it would be necessary in the second reading at least to change it and leave it the way it was. Not to repeat that they are now educated and that there is a really good, quality number of people who can deal with it, and will not be at the expense of quality as these changes can happen. That's the first comment. Second remark. If that's how it says here, and the reasons why you came up with the idea that somewhere at the end of the term of office you intervened in this Act amendments and additions why it was necessary to make a little less than half of the existing law intervened in it. Why is half the law touched or in some segments changed? If only the reason is that we will help and simplify to go into faster investment and attract capital so that it can invest in the Republic of Croatia. I don't get it, and then you say it won't change the concept of the law. If more than half the law changes, the concept of law and the protection of space must change. Tell me if it's just because I read it like that, and I read it all the way to the end it can be determined that these changes and changes only benefit those who want to invest. That's certainly how it is. But tell me, then, why are you changing the protected belt and reducing it on the coast and on the islands? Why, if it's an investor who'll come here and build a drive, factory, hire people. What does that have to do with a secure belt? I mean, why do we touch it when and what was before in the law was a good solution and we learned about it. I don't understand why you're touching it now, because it's getting smaller and smaller. So maybe it'd be good if in some reasonable time in a few years we said no, there's no seat belt, but we're unprotected to the end. Because such a reduction unnecessarily leads to this imaginary protection of that coastal belt being truly just imaginary. It is obvious that you have managed only to hand over investors through these changes and additions to that law. In that case, there is a concern about the public interest that we all need to worry about. Because look, that space in the Republic of Croatia is all we have. We're not as big as some other country, like Russia, so we can afford luxury to mess up in some part of that space and do something wrong. Because any intervention in the area in the Republic of Croatia anywhere, whether on the coast or somewhere else, is a permanent intervention that will be very, very difficult to fix later and will do great damage not only to the quality of life but also to these investors who, if made like this, will probably be able to come faster and more efficiently to their part of the investment to revive it. So it's convenient for the investor. But the previous law didn't seem to be much of an investment brake. I didn't hear when it comes to changes and additions to spit so much under that law that it was that brake that wouldn't allow investors to get involved more easily and faster in investments in the Republic of Croatia. I agree that maybe it was that procedure that needed to be reduced and that something had to be simplified. But then it was necessary to change perhaps just a dozen articles of an existing law that was relatively good. What reason am I saying that? Much of the change refers not only to helping investors through the simplification of the procedure, but here we all kind of touched what is going to happen or what is already happening on the coast, so by amending such a law on spatial regulation, we have naturally talked a lot about this internship, so now we understand when we have explained that this internship is so harmless and that it will not in any case lead to apartmentisation and concreteisation. That's what we heard now. But you, Mr. Minister, told us that there was an opportunity in the existing law to also conduct an internship. This liberalisation, as I am now reading this internship, of course leads primarily to the opening of a larger space for land speculation, because it is a land for tourist catering purposes, I speak in those T1 and T2 areas that have not been at a particular price so far, because of their limitations exclusively for tourist catering activities, which are probably only worth it for some longer period of time than 20 years, now these changes and additions are gaining on their value due to the possibility of building and selling real estate in the area. And of course that's how they put themselves in an unfair position. Those who, investors, are again talking about investors, who have been law-abiding and acting in good faith, and believing in the stability of the legal system, we believe in the stability of the legal system that there will not be much change, build and build properties in areas that were much more expensive, much more expensive than those that are now going to allow for this additional internship. I don't think that's right. And despite the belief that there will be no sale and that there will be no such thing as what, this way of staging, this way of getting into spatial plans in a way that makes it possible to record it is certain that concreteisation and apartmentization of the coast will occur. You won't be able to forbid by any law that in any tourist zone when something is on the floor buying it, let's say it's kind of the easiest thing to say to the English. It'll all be English. And they're going to do it by this sharing or I don't know what it's all somehow capable of manipulating, but it's going to be in winter... Look, we were, the good part of the people sitting here was watching what we shouldn't do in tourism, we were in Spain, in other countries, begging us not to make the mistakes we made. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With this law we try to legislate these mistakes, and do what we really shouldn't do, especially in that coastal belt of which all of us, most of us live very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75475	Thank you very much. Replica, and respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75476	Certainly with good provisions in this law, you have struck Luke's colleague I mean what's most problematic and the core, which we should really oppose, and that is easy to establish exactly where you saw the last sequences, given our property power and the property power of the English, and that is true that it will be bought by the English by this means, that is, by quotes and by other nations and other members, citizens of the European Union. And while they're buying it, we're pretending to be English and we don't understand. So it's no way for someone to get a loan or to vent the cottage, not to stand empty, but a way to acquire ownership, from the joint ownership of the record to become special owners, and everyone knows that people who bought it, buying apartments where there was a household right that they couldn't even book, until they had made an internship, or just a deposit of the ID in the book E. Therefore, there's the greatest danger. And in addition, some concepts should, in any case, look at a little bit until the second reading and agree with the Law of Property and other real rights. So here in Article 120, it is said that the competent court will, at the request of the owner of the building in the possession of the land book. The land book is a record of ownership, not possessions, a cadastre of frequent possessions, and we want to do just that, with all the loans we've been doing since 2002, to agree to the fact and legal situation, so that the one who really owns it, who has the right to own it, can register his property. There are still the biggest problems, so here are these especially in the last provisions there are a lot of these ambiguities, perhaps that promoter knows what it means, but in any case it creates a mess with the application of the Law of Property and the real rights which is only relevant, because the land procedure is strictly formal procedure, and it is very much to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75477	Thank you very much. Replication response, Agent Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75478	Well, my colleague, I was saying that it seems to me that from this tourist resort that will be staged in this way to a kindergarten that will be a small step there. That's what I'm saying. And that little step will certainly happen tomorrow, so in that settlement under the quotes, so that the English don't insult themselves, have their place of residence, and their place of residence, and choose their chairman of the local committee, tomorrow, that's for sure, if we go like this. So I ask you, Mr. Minister, that although it is here in this law you have said that you have conducted a great public debate, I really ask you to respect it in the second reading, because here you have heard both from the position, and from the opposition, and from the committee, and from the profession of written remarks to this law, so there writes a large part of these remarks of opposition and professional public and positions try something wrong, then try to think about it in the second reading and install it to make these remarks as little as possible. And what I really miss if it was supposed to be a public interest in space and spatial planning, of course, that, yes, nowhere I am, of course, some years ago, in some laws that were relatively good, which is that we were required as a unit of local self-government and state to have some sort of state reports in space, that would mean what was going on, and behind that we were doing programs on, measures to improve the situation in space. It seemed to us, when we had to make it very funny, but it seems to me that it is necessary and it would be good to install it into this law, that this space is not being destroyed, because once we're devastated, we're going to have a hard time fixing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75479	Thank you very much. And the debate on this bill will end with a respected representative, Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75480	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I will support this amendment and the addition of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, primarily because it will contribute to the final objective of this law, which is, above all, to simplifying, speeding up the process of drafting and adopting spatial arrangements and reducing the number of implementation spatial plans, facilitating the financing of their construction, speeding up their adoption because we are witnessing that it is often and not justified by illegal construction, but often that citizens may have resorted to it and because of the slowness and complexity of the execution of construction documents. Since this law has been said a lot, I will only limit myself to a few things. First of all, I call on the applicant to take advantage of this opportunity when the amendments to Article 2 have already been made, therefore, to consider once more the definition of the existing definition of building land mainly in relation to the definition of agricultural land under another law of the Agricultural Land Act, where these 2 definitions now encollect. So, the same land is described differently in 2 laws and there are different implications, whether in terms of use, restrictions on ownership rights or traffic of that land, so maybe this is an opportunity to sort it out along with that provision of the Agricultural Land Act. And also, in that same article, to more clearly identify the definition of built building land. Therefore, to clearly determine whether this is considered a fact-based land or land where buildings and buildings are built on the basis of valid building documentation because there have been some controversial interpretations, different interpretations of application. As far as these big stories are concerned, I feel that nothing drastic or revolutionary is going to happen, and especially bad is not going to happen. So it's not about any sharing of common ownership, it's about the fact that it was a tourist resort that was uniquely owned, which is what is allowed. It is permitted to record certain facilities, but of course it always retains land, so joint land ownership in which then the owner of an individual floored building as well as in the case of a residential building, this around, so the land will always remain in joint ownership and will not be possible to single out or plot a single plot, for example by establishing land for regular use of the building. So it's out of the question or allowed. There is no concern that this stage will result in concreteisation as you said and rebuilding because the law correctly established possible capacity, i.e. possible number of beds per hectare. So, I think it's written somewhere on a hectare of 80 beds. Which, of course, is worth the same as whether these facilities were located within the tourist resort or they were within the hotel beds or are part of a common, or not common, but unique property. I would agree that the termology of the law should be harmonised, especially by this law with the Law of Property and other real rights. But nothing is, although the details of the provision have not been looked at, but of course the land book consists of the property, the property and the cargo stores, and the property is entered in the owner's register, and the size and size of the cadastrian particle, the building, etc., and the cargo works that are really legal burdens on that particle, and then there's nothing controversial about it. What I would say first as very well, so this is a whole series of additions to the articles in this proposal to the amendments and additions, and it concerns the solution to change the purpose of the building. Indeed, what Mrs. Dropulić was talking about on behalf of the club so far was an extremely complicated namely the procedure of the new building permit, only because some business space wanted to be re-designed, so in the conditions of the market that are changing people, the owners of business premises, of course, are changing their activities, and if they are in accordance with the spatial plan of the allowed activity, there is really no reason to go through a violent new building permit, but this is now well solved and simplified with the solution for changing the purpose of the building. I also welcome these changes in relation to the parcel and the provisions extending the number of documents, i.e. the possibility of a plot of building land. Therefore, there has been proposed a broad number of documents, so urban planning and spatial plan of special features, etc., etc. As a result, the conversion of social property and the prescribed and the basis of the Law on Forests and the Law on Agricultural Land for the acquisition and registration of state ownership rights, but also certainly the Law on Tourism Land and other construction land which did not enter into the conversion into a process, i.e. capital in the privatisation process. In fact, all of these are to be passed by laws and by following and other laws, and their implementation must be made possible. What I would point out here is the possibility of land parceling, i.e. to solve property-legal relations, i.e. to resolve ownership of a legal and natural person who is the real owner of real estate in nature, and often because of the obsolescence and lack of awareness of catastrian and land books, long-term and complicated financial demanding procedures for the restoration of catastras and land books, the resolution of property-law relations and ownership is often impossible. It is necessary to point out that even legal building documents solve part of this problem since in many cases they refer to only part of the plot for which property-legal status needs to be regulated. I respect both that and my colleague Dropulic's statement that the geodites will not lead urbanism in this way, but there are indeed a number of cases where people have been struggling for years with plotting, or uniting land to resolve their property-legal relations. So I ask the promoter to try in any way to accept that harmonising the catastra is an extremely expensive and long-term job that has been carried out in Croatia for 15 years, but unfortunately there are still areas where this is not arranged, so the solution to determine the building particle, so that the process is simplified, perhaps to establish the formation of a building particle in accordance with the spatial plans of course, but that no idea building solutions must be done, so people must go to the architect and order an idea project to join their two particles. This idea project must bring about as if it were going to build and not intend to build anything, but simply solve its property legal relations on that particle, and I think there's a chance here now to solve it. And perhaps just compared to Article 10(3) where the possibility of planning within the PDO is established is the minimum size of not particles now but the land of three hectares to consider possible for islands and the smallest area of land of three hectares that may be reduced in terms of the nature and size of particles and even the size of smaller islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75481	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative of Luke Denon has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75482	Just for a little while, I agree with you I understand what an internship is, in any case my intention was in this debate to show that this more liberal decision that we are now going to make and in the law, is something, the minister says in law it has been so far, I agree. Then what are we changing if it was good and in the current law, why are we changing? Let's not change it then, let's leave it the way it was, it won't be an additional possibility and a more liberal relationship with internships will lead to economic recovery, that's certainly not the reason. And tell me, Mr. Minister, in this new law of ours, there is no investor anywhere who, by name and last name, I will say, a private investor, bought a hotel settlement of Haludovo, a hotel settlement failed, closed, got fired, home was not renewed, there is no ban, there is no ban in this law anywhere to defend him from doing it but it stands and fails. I thought you should put it in the law when someone buys it that they still need to bring it to a purpose or they need to be taken away from it it would be that investors don't act like arrogant bandits but actually act like real investors. For years, it stared blank and mocked tourism not only in the Primorje-Gorski County but in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75483	Thank you very much. Answer to Mrs. Lovrin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75484	Thank you very much, although the replica of Haludov was not my minister's answer, but that matter is not the matter of this Law, it cannot be solved by this law by my colleague Denon, I didn't even think you understood what an internship is, you know that very well. What I said was that the possibility of staging in these tourist resorts would not lead to concreteisation and would not force people to buy, i.e. that some investors in these tourist settlements would really leave their entire property and rent these apartments themselves. About when you said it was possible to apartmentize, record that no one will come to hotels or use our services anymore, it's like saying that because people are allowed to build their own houses that no one will go to camps or anyone will ever go to hotels again. As you can see, cottages are being built, holiday homes are being built and at the same time people who choose to come to camps or rest in hotels are offering and choices for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75485	We've come to the very end. Final word on behalf of the promoter and respected Minister Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75486	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to thank all the participants in the debate, the Committee presidents, the club representatives and the representatives who certainly contributed to the individual debate to enable the Croatian Government to further improve the text of the law itself. That is why there is a procedure in the House, that is, to propose the Law in the first reading, which I think was extremely useful today and that during this time before us, we will respect a large part of the provisions relating to improving the very text of the Law. I did not explain all the remarks I heard in the debate during the morning, some of them were still unexplained, but I would refer to one that I think is in the text that the law provided is quite justified. In fact, the question has been asked why this law allows the local self-government unit to sell land that forms part of a building plot in the area of 50% without a tender. First of all, we need to know that this would happen, the situation where the local self-government unit can sell not in particular 50%, the land of each plot must have a local license for that particle. Which means that this particle must be formed, parched in accordance with the relevant spatial plan, therefore, it is not now a matter of the decision of the individual mayor, the mayor or the municipal city council but of the clear fact that for that particle the shape and surface is established. And now that the units of local self-government participate with 30% in that plot, and the remaining 70% of entrepreneurs, the owner of that section that will be the builder, the investor on the plot, we don't find it strange to all, it's the first to me, that the local self-government unit now lists 33.34% of that particle that can only serve me. Which means if someone else buys in a public tender and becomes the owner of a local self-government unit, there's no investment, we can forget that this facility, whether it's residential, it's arbitrary, it's touristic, any purpose that can't be done because the local self-government unit has satisfied its form, it's called a competition and then it's sold to someone who doesn't own the rest of it. That's why we got to 50% because everything beyond that is 1%. Or 36% has absolutely no impact on building on that particle. That's why we went to 50% because everything that's underneath it is incoherent. On the other hand, it is true that the market value should be assessed in order to avoid corruption in order not to... at the price below that which would be determined by a public tender as an initial price could happen and sell below the price. I think that in this way we really allow the realisation of the investment I say regardless of what the purpose of the particle itself is. The second thing, just before there was a replica between Mr Matkovic and Matusic about how much this law as some have called it the investor friendly, how friendly he is to investors. We often hear that Croatian investors bypass us in a wide port, that there is little investment in Croatia, so it is measured by Slovakia, so it is measured by Hungary in its own time, so it is measured by some other countries. Through this law and through this law, the Government is saying that it is a welcome investor in Croatia who respects spatial plans, which respects the laws of the Republic of Croatia, which invests in Croatia, and it is up to us to allow Croatia to do so as quickly as possible in order for Croatia to be a competitive state through respect for spatial plans. And if we're part of this bill, then it's good to make that step, too. There's been a lot of words about the internship today, and I think I've been explaining this all morning how I've been reporting on what's going on. When Mrs Ingrid Antičević Marinović replicated Mr Rosin about how the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction cannot address the issue of purchase, because that is the matter being treated by the Law on Property and other real rights and the Law on Mandatory Relations, I agree, but then it was no argument when you replicated to Mr Denoni when you said this law would make it practically possible to sell out, that it would enable the resolution of what was not an argument when you thus replicated Mr Jerk Roshin. What am I saying? From the spatial planing aspect of the urban aspect, it is important that it is a settlement, this hotel, and villas built according to the spatial plan. And we are witnessing that through various types of law-playing, whatever Mr. Roshin said, selling under the table, in a way that certain accommodation units were sold and that then future new owners were registered as co-owners of a particular tourist resort, a certain building, a certain accommodation capacity. The law still in force, which has not changed whose novel we change this law allows it in one way for which the ministry has on several occasions given interpretations, is that the accommodation unit in tourist areas can be established. We have now simplified it and I think I will be so free that with the other provisions in this item, we have contributed even more to the preservation of tourist activity in the area that is intended to carry out tourism and catering activities. It seems to me that with further explanations, we have made it clear what I think about it but primarily on the trail of further protection of tourism activities in the Republic of Croatia. Mr Denona says that both the law and these amendments disappeared a good provision that allowed units of local self-government to speak through the report on the state of affairs in space about how the plans were implemented, how the plans were respected, how lawless construction was and all that we as the leaders of local self-government were reporting to our representative bodies, or the Government of the Parliament. It is still in the law today, and neither has this amendment been removed, nor has the 2007 law given up. In fact, Article 47 of the Law continues to speak about the government's commitment to the obligation of former chieftains, and today the mayor and mayors, respectively, to report regularly to their representative bodies, or to the Government of the Parliament, a report on the situation in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And another provision that has been made to some MPs is to reduce the possibility of building agricultural facilities in a protected coastal area of the sea, which, according to the existing law, was 300 m on the continent, on the islands of 100, with the current provision on the continent 100, and on the islands of 50. So we let it all out of our sight. If that second part of that article were so rigorous for the islands, and for the continent, especially in Dalmatia, which is pre-parked, it makes a large part of the protected coastal area with agricultural particles that the area of three hectares on the islands is so hard to reach that it can freely abolish this provision nothing significant would change. Because one farmer on the islands to have an area by the sea of three hectares of agricultural land either vineyards or olive groves I think it is really hard to achieve in these frameworks in the Republic of Croatia. Thus, this provision, so well-conceived by such a restriction that the owner must have three hectares of agricultural land, means that there is no excess of any construction, or very, very rarely three hectares of sea by sea can be reached in those areas of the protected coastal area so that it can be entered into the provision so that only for the needs of the agricultural holding and for the provision of catering services in that area that is within that agricultural holding. Therefore, that this will further apartmentize or concreteise the Croatian coast in a protected coastal area must make it difficult for such a situation to occur. And I think it's very easy to check how far such a provision can be reached in terms of construction in the protected coastal area of the sea. Here, for the end, I thank all the MPs once again. Of course, we will seriously consider all these remarks made in the debate itself, and we will really improve the text of the law in another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75487	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on this bill when the conditions are met. And I'm finishing our morning work too. We continue at 15.00 hours with the next item on the agenda of the bill on dealing with illegal buildings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75488	We move to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 829. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on spatial planning and construction is hereby adopted and 2. All comments and proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Let's please get involved and vote on the conclusion. The result? This conclusion was accepted by the majority of 91 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75489	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. First reading, P.Z. No. 829 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. They had a discussion. He confessed to Mr. Bukarica's great sin and for public recognition he was released from further execution. We're going to - Proposed law on dealing with illegal buildings, first reading, P.Z. No. 830. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by post, the debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Law, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session, Environment, Spatial Planning and Construction Minister Branko Bačić will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75490	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government proposes to parliament in its first reading of the draft law on the treatment of illegal buildings. First of all, I have to say that illegal construction in the Republic of Croatia, the problem which primarily concerns solving problems in the Republic of Croatia as the most important economic resource in the Republic of Croatia, but in any case the problem of illegal construction in the Republic of Croatia is multilayered. That the reasons why illegal construction occurred in the Republic of Croatia can be seen in the problem of unresolved property legal relations in the Republic of Croatia in the absence of spatial planning documentation for decades in which illegal construction was created. Then, due to lack of financial resources or underdeveloped awareness of compliance with the rules. Then, for reasons of litoralisation or urbanisation of the Croatian coast, primarily because of the sudden economic development on the Croatian coast, which was due to functions both industrial and traffic on the Croatian coast, which practically led to settlement and expansion of cities right on the Croatian coast. So, I would like to say that the problem of illegal construction in Croatia is the result of social, cultural, urban and all the reasons that have led to the construction of illegal buildings in Croatia in the past 40, 50 years. The legalisation of Croatia's facilities has so far tried to resolve it on three occasions. The first way to resolve illegal construction in the Republic of Croatia can be interpreted through the Construction Act, which allowed the general legalisation of all buildings in Croatia with the day of 15 February 1968. Then, on the second time, a law was passed on retaining an object in space that was in 1992 to 1995, which is not the extent to which success was expected for several reasons that later would likely be more than a word, and thirdly I am the existing Law on Spatial Planning and Construction of 2007. All these laws and those of 1992 and certainly the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction of 2007 have been moved when it comes to the law of individual buildings, buildings that do not have a building act, however, the fact is that there is no significant status in relation to the legality of construction in the Republic of Croatia. In the past period since 1968, since the date of February 15, general legalisation has occurred, and to this day, a very large number of illegal facilities have been created in the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction and Environmental Protection, around 150 thousand illegal objects that are certainly being added to this by the number of illegal objects which have been built against the building act and such objects are also significant numbers. What we would like to do with the law on the treatment of illegal buildings is, first of all, that all that is in the space that can be legalised, legal and respecting the criteria of space protection to legalise and on the other hand, to stop the illegal construction in the Republic of Croatia and to place the funds that are received from that legalisation in the first row of municipal planning of municipalities and cities whose space is more significant than illegal construction. In order to further edit the urban space in the Republic of Croatia and to ensure that the compensation provided for the retention of the facility in the area is firstly directed in the case of State budget revenue in the accelerated production of new cadastral measurements, which would be the basis for the construction of a catalogue of real estate and land books, and that the practical means that would be in place and which would constitute and represent the revenue of the state budget is, to the greatest extent possible, directed towards the resolution of a number of dubios of catasters in property legal relations with the resolution of the cataster and land book because, for a large part of these areas where the most significant illegal construction is now covered by the geodetic measurement that was created 170, 180 years ago and on the basis of which the land book was produced and based on which the Katastrian plans were drawn up. What this law prescribes is that illegal buildings could be legalised must be recorded in a space with a closing date on 30 November 2009 for which the State Geodetic Administration has digital orthophoto cards which were created on the basis of... recordings that preceded that date on 30 November 2009. The law also provides for the possibility of applying for a solution to be issued on the derivative by 31 December of the following year, so that all legal builders who under the basis of this law can legalise their facilities prescribed to be able to submit a request by 31 December 2012. In particular, the law takes into account illegal buildings which serve to carry out the agricultural activities of particularly family economies that this law, or the proposal for this law, will obtain the possibility of applying to European funds and obtaining incentives when Croatia becomes a Member State of the European Union because illegal objects, objects which do not have ownership papers, which are not entered in the ownership book, which are not registered, will not be able to apply to obtain funds from the European Funds. As I said, legalisation in 1968 included almost all the facilities located in the space, this legalization exempts from the precisely established criteria of those spaces which cannot be legalised even though the entities in these areas can not be legalised. These are primarily areas outside the construction area in the protected coastal sea belt, up to 70 meters apart from illegal buildings used for permanent housing and agricultural and family buildings if used, although this can be proven before 30 November 2009. Then, it is not possible to legalise buildings or buildings built on areas outside the construction area in the national park, nature park and regional park except traditional settlements and a designated or temporarily protected area in the category of strict reserves, a special reserve or park forest. Furthermore, it is not possible to legalise buildings built in planned and researched corridors and areas of transport, energy and water buildings of importance for the Republic of Croatia and units of local, regional or regional self-government. It is also not possible to legalise such facilities in an isolated construction area outside the settlement, which is intended for other purposes of public and general interest, as well as tourist and catering and manufacturing purposes. It is also not possible to legalise such facilities on agricultural land, categories of land which are particularly valuable and valuable for farm and family buildings, which include agricultural activities with the provision of catering and tourist services. Furthermore, buildings located in an economic and protection forest and forests with special purpose, then on the premises of the researched archaeological site or zone, historic construction works listed in the World Heritage List and registered or registered individual cultural well-being. Furthermore, in the area of special water protection, within the sanitary protection zone of drinking water, exploitation field and mineral raw materials if the building is built on a public surface if built on a marine good or watery good. Also, an illegal building cannot be legalized if it is built from a assembly that is not created by a building such as a camphouse, container, etc. We wanted through this procedure to do so in such a way of legalisation that it was simply possible to use a simple procedure to impair an individual object if, of course, this object respects the provisions provided for by this law. In order to be able to apply for the legalisation of the facility, it is necessary that the applicant draws up a geodetic video, a building data recording laboratory certified by the competent cadastrian office. It is then required to deliver three copies of the architectural recording, the opinion of an authorised construction engineer that the building meets the essential requirement of mechanical resistance and stability, residence certificate and evidence for the purpose of calculating the compensation for the retention of an illegal building in space. And clearly paid utility and water contributions. The Government of the Republic of Croatia will, if the law is clearly adopted in this proposal by a special regulation, prescribe the amount of compensation to keep the facility in place according to our estimates, the fee would be from 0.3 to 0.6% of the level of municipal contribution. What has often appeared in public these days is that through the legalisation process the funds will benefit or be the resources of the state budget. It is clear that this is not true that the very proposal for a law on the treatment of illegal buildings is planned for the applicant to clearly meet all the conditions prescribed by this law, primarily, to pay the municipal contribution which is the income of the unit of local self-government, then the water contribution which is the income of Croatian waters, and then it will be necessary to pay the compensation prescribed for keeping the facility in place. It is very important that I think it should also be pointed out is a fact that so far has not been an assumption of the possibility of legalisation i.e. that the applicant of an object, i.e. a building intended to be legalised, does not have to be the owner of the property at the same time. In this way we will allow a very large number of buildings in the space to be recorded both in the catastro and in the land book, with clear what the property of this building will follow the property of the property. Therefore, by requiring that the building would be kept in place clearly that it would not produce any legal effects, so that it would be automatically registered on the basis of an application submitted by the competent cadastre office to the land book, that building which was illegally registered on behalf of the applicant. This has obviously caused confusion in the Croatian public, but this law allows the applicant to make a clear statement of his right to the procedure to be implemented, can apply for registration and legalisation of the facility and thus make the object legal. All those possible dubiosiss about solving property-legal relations on a particle and whether they stay on the property on which the building is legal, but the facilities in the space can be maintained, can be legalised. This fact that, as a necessary prerequisite for legalisation of objects, it was necessary to provide a property sheet, i.e. to provide a certificate of ownership, to a large extent limited the implementation of existing laws intended to legalise buildings in space. Such a provision will indeed allow a very, very large number of objects in the space to be legalized or legalized. When I mention the part relating to the fee for holding the facility in space, the law itself provides that part of this fee that will be charged to keep the building, the illegal building in the space will also be used to raise the energy efficiency of the buildings because, as we know, in the Republic of Croatia, a large number and legal buildings are simply not finished or missing the roof or is not narrowed down or not colored. So through the Green Construction Action Plan in Croatia, which is currently being prepared at the Ministry of Energy Efficiency, we will return to the same facilities or other facilities that are already legal to embellish them, to finish them, to make them more energy efficient, and thus make them more beautiful, if I may say so, to arrange and the appearance of the Republic of Croatia. Here it seems to me that the introduction is enough now. So, the government's goal was to enable more than 150 thousand as far as the assessment of illegal buildings is concerned to enable this one, this trauma to people who have lived in these facilities for many years, whose facilities, for example, were built 30 or 40 years ago, to be resolved in a certain way, and to allow these facilities to be placed in the function of the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, when individual objects are mutilated, the owners of these facilities, if they solve property-legal relations, will be able to pawn these objects, in which they will open certain revolutions. These facilities will be able to serve certain workshops and will simply contribute to further economic development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75491	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75492	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you said this bill would allow all those buildings that were built on land that wasn't owned by the building owner. Unfortunately, it won't be possible, or fortunately. Because the Law of Property and other real rights has a whole chapter entitled "Building on Other People's Land". So if the owner of the land opposed and reacted in time with a warning, by warning and then an adequate lawsuit by the court, he thus prevented the owner from acquiring, the owner of the building from acquiring property over that property. I'm just warning, what you said, then we need to find a bridge between the Law of Ownership and these things and what you're talking about, because there will be a reluctance once again in practice, someone will be able to solve, someone won't, and again people will take it as some kind of corruption and as a bargaining one, and at the expense of another. That's why these two laws need to be brought into line.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75493	The committees. Legislative? A spacious structure and construction? The chairman of the board, Ms. Marina Matulović Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75494	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee discussed at its 47th session on 15 June 2001. Proposal for a law on the treatment of illegal buildings in the first reading sent by the government to the Parliament. He was discussed by the Committee as a parent working body. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the Law on the Treatment of Illicit Buildings was proposed because it was estimated that there were around 150 thousand illegal buildings in Croatia today, that during the four-year application of the applicable Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Institute of Legalisation of Buildings was found to have been built without, or contrary to, the act of the competent authority on which to access construction in practice did not sufficiently affirm the need to address the problem it was established. According to existing spatial plans, units of local self-government that went to expand construction areas to legalise part of the facilities can already be legalised by the existing law, but it has been found that people did not go to legalisation mainly because of unresolved property-legislative relations and inability or not wanting to pay for municipal and water contributions. Among other things, this has resulted in a lack of awareness of the Catastrian apparatus and land books which today do not show the real situation, which is why a large number of illegal family houses and households have been excluded because of the possibility of transporting real estate or carrying out economic activity in such buildings. Under the proposed law, law enforcement of an illegal building would be included in the legal system, recorded in a catastrian apparatus and entered in land books, resulting in the alignment of the situation in registers with the situation in nature and resulting in a real increase in the real estate market. The simplified process of law-making of existing buildings serving agricultural activities would allow for the achievement of the necessary precondition of legality for the application for incentives and pre-accession funds of the European Union, for proposals in this law that compensation will be paid for the so-called legalisation of the facility. The use of part of the revenue generated by this compensation for the retention of illegal buildings in the area at local level would ensure the improvement of the infrastructure equipment of the settlement according to the programme adopted by the representative body of the local self-government units, and the investment of the second part of the income would speed up the production of cadastral measurements and the restoration of land-books, thereby obtaining accurate, reliable and up-to-date data, increasing property traffic through land books, reducing property-law disputes, increasing number of registered buildings, increasing municipal revenues of municipalities, cities and the like. These revenues would also be used to finance, improve energy investment properties, thus enabling citizens to invest in heat recovery of buildings under more favourable conditions, resulting in the launch and employment of the construction sector, as well as domestic production of suitable equipment for efficient heating and cooling. The law on the treatment of illegal buildings determines its application to buildings built without acts approving the construction, or contrary to that act, which are recorded on the digital orthophoto map in scale 1:5000 made by the State Geodetic Authority on the basis of the aerophotometric recording of the Republic of Croatia completed by 30 November 2009. And the very possibility of applying in law was stated on December 31st 2012. In the following debate, it was pointed out that some of the provisions of the proposed law on the treatment of illegal buildings are questionable for the reasons why it prescribes the same legalisation procedure in the case of illegal construction in the construction area and in accordance with the spatial plan as in the case of illegal construction outside the building area and is contrary to the spatial plan. In addition, given the unworthy system of assessing the impact of illegal construction on space, the necessary establishment of this system is assessed, and the development of criteria related to the purpose, or size of the building. The committee's debate raised a question of possible violations of the constitutional right of units of local self-government. In fact, units of local self-government have already been determined in their spatial plans according to illegally built structures, and this bill could, therefore, also outline them in spatial plans, and this bill could violate their right to do so. It was also warned of an unequal relationship with the lawless builders on the coast and on islands, and raised doubts about the law of illegal buildings for permanent housing and buildings of the agricultural and family economy, which include agricultural activities with the provision of catering and tourist construction services in the protected coastal area of the sea within a belt of up to 70 metres. As regards ownership on land, what the minister and Mrs Anticevic spoke about, the debate warned about the Institute of Property Unity, the basis of the Property Act and other real rights, the basis of which the owner of the property also became the owner of the property. The facility as an object can be legalized, but it's not the one that owns it if it's not on its land that's filed for legalization, it's the one whose land is it. And that's clear enough for everyone to say. It has been pointed out that in addition to the assessment of the real state and the exact number of lawlessness of the building in the Republic of Croatia, it is not known and that now that the units of local self-government are recording the existing state, they will definitely determine which number of buildings they are dealing with. The Committee members supported the initiative to draft the law in question in order to more strongly address the issue of lawlessly built buildings, and thus launched the real estate market with the emphasis on providing for several categories of citizens or entities, i.e. several categories of special compensation, especially for citizens of a weaker property situation. At the end of the debate, it is pointed out that the proposed law is essential to decide whether to allow the legalisation of illegal buildings in the area of purpose contrary to the purpose set out in the spatial plan and under what conditions and under whose consent. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously proposed to propose to the Croatian Parliament that the law be adopted in the first reading and that any objections, proposals and opinions be made in the debate be made to the applicant in order to establish the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75495	Thank you. The Justice Committee, the chairman of the Committee, Mrs. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75496	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. At its 64th session, the Justice Committee discussed the proposal for a law on the treatment of illegal buildings as an interested working body. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative explained in detail the proposal for a law on the treatment of illegal buildings. In the debate, the committee members supported the adoption of a bill with the following comments, proposals and opinions. The first opinion is that the provisions of Article 2 defining the concept of illegal buildings should clearly establish a digital orthophoto map based on the aero-graphic recording of the Republic of Croatia completed by 30 November 2009. DOF5 as a public document and an obligation to make this document available to all citizens in order to enable them to become aware of the right to apply for a solution to the state of play. In Article 7 it is proposed to delete paragraphs 3 and 4 as unnecessary, since the procedure other than the general provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act is also laid down by this law in Article 6(5), so repetition is unnecessary. Article 8(1) of the first subparagraph should be amended in a way that clearly determines that the residence certificate should be attached only in the case of the exception provided for in Article 5(1) of the first subparagraph, in such a way as to provide proof of residence on 30 November 2009 namely, which also counts as the right to legalise an illegal building if it has been in the space until that date, which is the legalisation of facilities within 70 metres from the sea and outside the building area. Article 8 proposes to amend the second paragraph in such a way as to allow the geodetic embossing of particles on which an illegal building is built and where those particles are not owned by the same person because the concept of the whole law which determines the legalisation regardless of the property of the particle on which the illegal building is built is thus maintained. The opinion is that it should fully establish certain limits for possible deviations from plans and criteria in order to prevent the legalisation of buildings in cases of one-off deviation, thereby completely disabling the planning documentation and urban concept of urban development of cities and municipalities. Following the debate, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusions: the Proposal for a Law on the Treatment of Illegal Buildings is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75497	Thank you. The Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government? I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. He's gone. The club loses its word. Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević, Club of HNS Representatives, HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75498	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. If the system institutions had done their job, we probably wouldn't be discussing this bill today, if the system institutions had done their job and under existing laws illegally built objects could turn into legal objects, it's almost certain and it's clear to everyone, just a matter of responsibility. Introducing, the very title of the law may be a little clumsy, speaking an illegal building. The building is a building, a thing, and illegally it can only be an act or an illegally built building, so it might be good to think about this name of the law. It's not really that important, but it's about studioism in the preparation of this bill. The assessment of the situation states that illegal construction marks Croatia's space for the past 50 years and more. In the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retirement, we estimate that it is realistic, that this story is realistic for the past 20 years, and the primary cause of this, at least as regards the construction of family houses without permission, in addition to the ineffectiveness of the institutions of the system is the first lack of financial resources, in time the increasingly complex building legislation, often incomprehensible to ordinary people, the law of '92. has 84 articles, the last of 2007 354 and more than 15 sublegal regulations, and also high permit costs, fees that correspond with decisions and authorities, both local and central, in collecting construction fees, so that these costs were sometimes in the height and amount of materials for building the house and are still very high today. On the other hand, there are present investors, in commercial construction, at all costs, and in violation of the rules, in the race for profit, upgrading, upgrading and building buildings outside the allowed gauges. In addition, as a spice comes a complex long-term process of obtaining all the permits, hard for the investor, not only financially, but also psychologically in the fort with time. This law must firstly be based on several key decisions and I think it is important that these decisions are taken and defined, in which area is the role of the state, in which the role of local and regional self-government, the second social criterion, is clearly divided into several groups, insurance of municipal services, and not only consent, transparent uniform definition of the criteria for access to legalisation, and also very important ensuring acceptable financial potential for legalisation of illegal construction. The law itself must be simple, easy for everyone to understand, transparent and almost tax-written, especially with regard to the procedures and costs of legalisation, if they wish to gain success in implementation. The potential round of stakeholders is very wide, and the law itself will not mean success, since legalisation requires a substantial amount of money, from municipal contributions, water contribution, maintenance fees in space, project costs, expert opinions, geodetics, and in this current recession situation, the question of how many citizens have opportunities for new borrowing and without capital sustainability will be negligible. In any case, to welcome the principle that it started from what cannot be legal, not vice versa, because then there would never be an end to the census. In particular, I would like to underline and emphasise the need for urgent action in terms of legalisation of agricultural facilities, since the sector has the possibility to use European money, however, it has not been provided with basic preconditions. For the illustration of Slovenia, the legalisation took place 12 years before it entered the European Union, and within 12 years they managed to create a possibility for their farmers to use European money. We are not, and from that position, this law is extremely important. In particular, Article 4 of the proposal, in particular Article 2(2), states that all is legalised, without additional criteria, if the building is not located in the specific area referred to in Article 5 of the Law. There is a similar approach to all the buildings that can be legalized, and those that are in line with the plan, and those which according to the gauges intended are not in line with the existing spatial plan and we at the HNS Club, HSU think that it should nevertheless be kept in mind whether or not it is built by someone for the sake of their existence, for the purposes of their own housing, or whether it is a race for greater profits and commercial construction. This raises the question of ensuring safety, hygiene in the use of newly legalised buildings and settlements. Under the bill, it is the government that sets the criteria for determining the fees for building maintenance in space. We at the HNS Club, the HSU's position is that this should be left to local self-government units, since they know the best situation in their space, and that the government determines only areas of particular interest. This would mean that it is a municipality or a city that wants to legalise as many illegal constructions as possible and can make it possible for its citizens. The government should only give frames, something like a framework for calculating the height of the municipal contribution. In order to ensure transparency in informing citizens, investors and other interested parties to the implementation of this law, each shareholder should be obliged to publish in a clear and tax-based manner the total cost of legalisation, as these costs and the possibility of funding for citizens will be a key factor in the success of that legalisation. The legalisation deadline is 31.12.2012, absolutely too short, and that deadline is simply stated, we at the Croatian People's Party club, and the Croatian pensioners have a feeling as if the problem has occurred, that it is some sort of action purchase or sale. Legalisation is a process that requires both time and money, so in no case will it be sufficient to propose a deadline. Citizens at this time of recession without a clear perspective of leaving the crisis resent any, especially new and additional borrowing. In Article 10, the standard provision to pay for something without knowing whether or not what is paid will be executed, which is the solution to the state of play, cannot be made until a municipal water contribution has been paid. It would be fairer, a legal solution would be to issue a solution, and the payment obligation would begin to run according to the enforceability of the solution once the legal deadline for appeal has passed. It's the same with the compensation... in Article 16, first you pay and you get a solution, and in practice, what happens now with a municipal contribution for both citizens and our larger investors, which is to pay for the first war, and then no more pay, and then they need to activate the instruments of forced collection again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The amount of compensation for keeping the building in space in Article 17 is said to be the government establishing criteria for the impact of the building on space, which is very difficult and realistic, because it depends on a number of factors and in the good part on subjective views, and has a time scale because today one impact on space, and tomorrow, with changes of circumstances, are completely different. In any event, when determining the amount of compensation, it should be borne in mind whether it is necessary to build which has a social character or commercial character. Mostly the criteria need to be simplified, and maybe that's why we at the HNSU club suggest that local self-government decide on it. Furthermore, the schedule of compensation for the retention of buildings in the area according to principle 25-75 (25%-75% in favour of the state) is at least illogical. It turns out that the part for local self-government is used for purpose, and also one third that goes to the state to spend on purpose, which in other words means that only 50% of the compensation is not intended or that 50% of the funds are non-intentional. If the funds have come... fixing up riots in space then it is logical that they are used entirely in the local self-government unit for these same purposes to sort out space, i.e. for municipal and other infrastructures, plans, land planning and the like. One Special Pearl Article 22. It's an absolute entry into the right of ownership by the Constitution guaranteed. In fact, the provision states that an illegal building or such land cannot be alienated or acquired by inheritance until the illegal building has been removed. The building could still be tolerated because de facto such a building is generally not listed in the garter and cadastre, but for land that cannot be inherited it is a very reckless provision because the question is whose land it will be if the owner dies, if it will not be of his children or relatives, and it can be about grandfatherhood it is an absolute incursion in property rights and contrary to constitutional principles. And if the building was built illegally, the state must have instruments to remove that building and charge someone that cost, even if they put a mortgage on the land, and not to force someone to remove the building on the principle of blackmail if you don't legalize, you won't be able to inherit it. In conclusion, the law on this subject is in principle to greet but only with the subject. This proposal is without sufficiently developed criteria and non-transparent in the financial sense of costing and legalisation. And that's the main and key information that's all interested in how much it costs. We therefore propose to differentiate the costs of legalisation, strictly penalize commercial construction, take care of the necessary social building of the roof over the head, even though it does not need to be fully amnesty. Because the key level of legalisation costs is, if it is inaccessible to most citizens, then the law is written for a richer minority and in implementing the law falls into the water and there is no great point in the wider range except for favouring certain target groups and investors. The level of legalisation costs would be good to know before the law is passed, so that the way in which the criteria are laid down clearly and unambiguously is prescribed by the law itself, which is clearly limited time, because the requirements are submitted by 31.12.2012. If it does not define exactly what it wants to achieve in a clear and uniform way, it does not define the roles of everyone in the legalisation process, distinguish possible from impossible, the law ensures transparency and uniform information, then this law is not in the function of fixing and introducing order into space, but is obviously part of pre-election activities. We at the HNS-HSU club will support this first reading by hoping that in the second reading we will get a more acceptable law, a law that will also respect all the remarks that were made yesterday on the board and today very likely in the debate, but only in the law that has its life support, means it has its own sustainability. If that doesn't happen and obviously we trust the government again with the wrong intentions and that it is indeed in the function of pre-election marketing.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75499	Thank you. HSS representative's club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75500	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, State Secretary, Representatives and Representatives. According to the motionors that we have heard the aim of the Protection Act on the treatment of illegal buildings or how we make it clearer to say the Law on the legalization of illegally built objects that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred to the procedure is the introduction of order and preservation of space in Croatia. In a conversation with the mayors and mayors on the ground, but also with many citizens, this law came across approval. We at HSS are the position to legalise everything that can remain in the space from the aspect of space protection and to meet technical and security conditions for housing or carrying out economic or specific agricultural activities. The profession, on the other hand, has many doubts and claims that the existing legislation is good and that it already allows for the legalisation of slightly more than 30,000 objects. However, as we have heard, the legislator estimated that there are slightly more than 150 thousand families in Croatia whose buildings were illegally built by 30 November 2009 and that all of them should be offered an adequate solution. All owners of illegally built houses will have the opportunity to request legalisation by 31 December 2012. However, it is certain that for many lawless builders, it will be a big bite in the financial sense because it amounts to more than 100 thousand kunas and in some cases more, and that so far has also been one of the significant reasons why some lawless builders who were able to legalise their facilities on the basis of spatial plans have not done so. Therefore, the initiative launched by the resolution ministry is welcome, and this initiative has opened talks with banks related to loans that owners could use to legalise their facilities and thus properly settle all obligations towards local self-government and state. The new question that the profession opens is that, if adopted in such a proposed form, the law applies to illegal structures and enables them to be legalised regardless of whether they are or are not in line with spatial plans. This loses sight of the instrument of spatial planning and the spatial plan as an act which defines what is acceptable in space, and which is not, because only on the basis of the architectural footage and the opinion of the stability inspectors, it concludes whether or not the object disrupts the space. The doubts also open up a procedure that is the same for all objects, regardless of their purpose. It is brought to an equal level by those who have built to resolve their existential issue with economic operators and profit building, and we in the HSS believe that there is still a certain difference. The proposed law also takes into account buildings serving agricultural activities, especially family economies, built without or contrary to the building act, which will finally have the possibility to use EU pre-accession funds after legalisation, which we, of course, support in the HSS. However, the question of compensation under Chapter 4 of the Law will be defined by the government regulation, which will be passed within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the law. The Regulation should establish the value of points and coefficients for assessing the impact of an illegal building on space, and unit amounts according to the zones laid down for the calculation of compensation. As the deadline is short and the law goes into two readings, it should consider that the value of the coefficients and points and the unit amounts per zone is prescribed by this law, or that municipalities and cities of the age are able to calculate the fee because they know best the situation on the ground. For agricultural buildings, as well as for social housing and compensation, according to the HSS, we must be extremely small, because if they are not, then this law will not achieve its effect. I'll also give an explanation for this attitude. The older the farm, or the farm, the smaller the value of this facility, and such facilities have a life span, since animals reside in them, and in accordance with the possibilities of maintaining adequate sanitary and veterinary correctness. So with the number of years, farms do not grow value but fall, while cottages still have a different situation, because legalized cottages will immediately increase the value by several tens of thousands of euros, and therefore we advocate a clear dismemberment of legalisation fees according to the purpose and purpose of an illegal establishment that is legalized. Otherwise, only the rich will be able to pay for legalisation, and we have witnessed that some have twice torn down their illegal facilities in the same place, and now again in the same place for the third time lawlessly built, and those in our opinion should be subject to stricter rules when it comes to fees for keeping an object in space. Compensation means applicants in the legalisation process pay 25% to the local self-government unit in which an illegal building is located and 75% to the state budget. We in the HSS are committed to making this ratio 50 to 50% because local self-government will have a huge cost of building municipal infrastructure, and in places where they haven't foreseen construction with a spatial plan, and the state allows this law. Legalised, however, there will be no illegal facilities, such as in national parks and in maritime and public goods, as well as in the protected coastal areas of the sea, as prescribed in Article 5 of this Act. But in these exceptions, we at HSS believe it is necessary to disable legalisation for those illegal buildings that were built on other people's land. There are some who think if their political option is in power in a particular municipality or city that they can usurp other people's property and that no one can do anything to them. In view of the long-term duration of the inspection procedure and with regard to the proposals in this law, it seems that, unless this notice of the HSS is respected, which is ultimately and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it is inalienable. We have to be honest and say that it can't be the same if someone built a house according to plans, and he just didn't ask and pay for the permit or he built three floors more than what was allowed by plan, or instead of a family house he built a building with 10 to 15 apartments. We think that the underprotected coastal belt is this law, and the HSS advocates that the limit set at just 70 metres from the sea is kept at 100 meters as foreseen by the current legislation. The legalisation process does not require an examination of either the spatial or the engineering, or the security aspect of the building, as well as evidence of the owner of the stability of the building. This issue also raises the question of possible claims against owners by the state if something happens in a security sense. I will remind you that Croatia has one of the best flood defense systems, but when a large water wave comes, it still affects certain settlements. If you remember, we had opportunities to watch scenes on television, settlements near Zagreb or near Vukovar, after the last floods, and these settlements were indeed in a difficult state, and then it was found that they were illegally built settlements in areas of flood defense. Whether the state will take the risk, legalize those facilities, although it knows they were built in the flood defense zone and then pay huge damages to the owners. The big question is also how the law of wild construction will be conducted, where there are entire wild settlements, where life cannot be normal, for settlements such as Vira, Rogoznica, Kozari Boka, Marcana, it will be difficult to find a solution without urban intervention. Interventional vehicles cannot enter the areas of these settlements, some type of vehicle corridor should be penetrated and the utility infrastructure. Some settlements in Dalmatia, for example, have so many steep roads that they can't drive municipal vehicles, so even garbage can't be taken away. It is obvious that in such settlements, there will be no quick solution even after this law. However, this law will make life much easier for many other owners of illegal homes. For example, whoever submits a request for legalisation will be able to immediately search for a water and electricity connection, and those to whom the destruction solution hangs will be stopped if it is not affected by Article 5. Finally, we could find out the exact number of illegal buildings, but we think in the HSS that it is not realistic to expect the list to be made by municipalities and cities without the assistance of the county and the state as prescribed by the law within only 3 months. All these doubts that I have raised in the context of the debate are aimed at fostering a thorough debate, and to find the best possible solutions, to keep as many objects in place as possible, but to protect both the space and security of the citizens. We encourage the legislator to install in the law mechanisms to suppress illegal construction in its beginning, because otherwise this law will not make sense if it continues to follow the same model and continue to operate in space. We put in the HSS that it is necessary to strengthen and capitulate the building inspection and establish its firm cooperation with the municipal redistribution of municipalities and cities. Only by working together can the system be made better and more efficient. We welcome the proposal in a law relating to the financing of energy efficiency and the funds of the compensation for illegal construction. This is a proposal that HSS has long advocated because only the facade on the house has 30 percent of the energy, and if we add to this the use of renewable energy sources we can help households with these means that the thermal energy has absolutely free of charge, which at the time of this crisis is not a meaningless item. The HSS Club will support the adoption of this law in first reading, and our final support will depend on embedding our observations and proposals in the final proposal for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75501	Thank you. The club of HDZ representatives Ms. Marina Matulović Dropulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75502	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Sudarevic, colleagues and colleagues. The appearance of illegal or illegal construction in Croatia has been unfortunately for many years since the industrialization of the 1960s, due to the arrival of larger cities of a large number of workers who have resolved a housing issue for themselves and their families, until today and 2000, respectively, when cottages and apartments were built in much larger numbers and occupied a space that should serve everyone and provide a smooth approach to our coast. A particularly large number of buildings were built after 2001 when unfortunately all illegally built objects were allowed to be joined to the municipal infrastructure. During the Homeland War, a large number of citizens were left homeless, had to move and build a new home, and of course they did not ask for permits. Because of the above, it is necessary to take care of the purpose of buildings when legalising objects. Unfortunately, it should be pointed out that illegal construction is mainly accompanied by poor quality, inadequate design of buildings, seizure and destruction of both agricultural and other areas, as well as illegal integration of infrastructure. The issue of issuing acts in the executed state for buildings built without the relevant works approved by the construction is governed by the applicable Law on Spatial Planning and Construction of 2007 provided that the buildings are thus built in accordance with the spatial plan applicable in the area in which they are located. In the past period of application of this law, according to the Ministry's data, 8000 452 buildings have been legalized by the end of 2010, 78.8% of which refer to buildings whose area is not more than 400 square meters, so it is mostly family houses. However, during its four-year application, it was observed that this institute, so-called the legalisation of buildings in practice has not been sufficiently justified by the need to address the problems that have created it and it has been observed that the effectiveness of the process of issuing the solution and the certificate of performance has been significantly affected primarily by the non-resolvement of property-legal relations on the parcel itself, the demand in the handling of the competent authorities, as well as the avoidance of payment of the municipal and water contribution. Already today, the existing law can legalize over 30,000 objects. It should be stressed that the existing law has required a unit of local self-government to build a rehabilitation programme in a larger area, which is unfortunately only in the beginning. Such an example is, for example, an example. Poor boy in Split. In view of all of the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes a law on the treatment of illegal buildings in order to allow one part of the citizens to legalise particularly residential and agricultural facilities. About 150 thousand objects are being talked about, and the exact number will be known when units of local self-government record the state. In fact, one more question is whether it really is about cca 150 thousand objects or whether there are various upgrades, upgrades, staircases, etc. Because the inspection is doing exactly the same thing whether it's about such buildings or whether it's about completely new objects. The proposed law regulates the way and purpose of the legal process, the person who initiates the procedure and the time limit within which the applicant may apply for a solution to the state of play. The conditions for the legal procedure in relation to the environment shall be laid down if an illegal building is built in accordance with or is not in conformity with the conditions laid down in the spatial plan set out in the area specified by the spatial arrangements of the units of local self-government where the provisions of the law are not applied in the case of illegal buildings or only applied exceptionally under defined conditions. Now we can list everything that is listed in the law and protected coastal belt and protected areas and agricultural land that are very quality and slightly less quality, then three types of forests that must be protected, planned research corridors, areas of transport energy buildings, etc. means everything where you can't legalize existing objects. The documentation to be submitted by the applicant in the application for an execution decision shall be determined by the parties and by the way they participate in the procedure, the arrangements and conditions for the handling of the competent administrative authority in the issuing of the derivative solution shall be prescribed, the obligation to pay compensation for the retention of the illegal building in space shall be imposed and the manner and conditions of its payment shall be regulated, and shall be defined by the means of the use of the compensation. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is expected to set criteria, value of points and coefficients for assessing the impact of illegal construction on space and unit amounts according to position zones in the calculation of the compensation. The recording of this building in the catastrian apparatus and the registration of land registers shall be made possible and other legal consequences of the law of the building itself shall be prescribed. And this means whether it is possible to connect water structures to the power grid, to another infrastructure, and to prohibit the transport of buildings built without the building and land acts that apply to these buildings. The provisions of the same proposal oblige units of local self-government to record within 90 days, the inspection will deliver everything they have to them within 30 days. It is also envisaged to strengthen the role and responsibility of counties, municipalities and cities in the process of resolving illegal construction and thus to regulate and protect protected natural values and to enable more effective supervision of new and legitimate construction by the construction inspection. It is important to note that the proposed law takes particular account of the buildings that are used to carry out agricultural activities especially of family economies built without, or contrary to, the building act. In the Republic of Croatia, the largest number of agricultural buildings is not included in a catastrian operation, and only a small number of agricultural entities have conducted their legal process in accordance with the applicable Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. Simplification of the legal process of existing buildings for the purpose of carrying out agricultural activities will allow for the achievement of the necessary precondition of legality for applying for incentives and pre-accession funds of the European Union. The law on the treatment of illegal buildings determines its application only to those buildings which were built by 30 November 2009 because that date completed the digital orthophoto map at 1:5,000 State Geodesy Administration on the basis of which it can then be checked for real condition. All those who apply until 31 December 2012 can, of course, submit a request and then, in fact, determine whether or not a specific facility can be legalised in relation to the situation on the ground itself. However, considering the provisions of the proposed law, the Croatian Democratic Community club considered that further discussion should be made and clarification should be made whether to allow the legalisation of buildings located outside the construction area of the settlement in those locations which the units of local self-government did not provide for by their spatial construction plan but saved them for some other purposes. Then the provisions of this law do not apply to areas outside the construction area in the protected coastal area of the sea within a belt of up to 70 metres, except for, of course, illegal buildings used for permanent housing and for agricultural and family buildings. There should be one analysis, a real identification of what number of these objects are and only after that is to decide whether we will approve legalisation of existing objects in 70 metres outside the settlement at all. In addition to the request for a solution to the state of play, no evidence of ownership is required, but of course all those who worked on other people's parcels will not be able to legalise an object in their own name, but the facility will be legalised but on behalf of the one whose land is only. There should also be little debate with the local self-government units on the possibility and their participation with the Government in determining the level of compensation compared to the position zones because the law provides for five position zones, e.g. the third. the position zone in the City of Zagreb is not the same as the third position zone on Brač or in Supetar, either in another city or in Losinj. It should therefore be determined that the Government of the Republic of Croatia determines a range, and after that the units of local self-government are self-determined according to their zones. In addition, we also think that it would not be bad if we already thought that a large number of objects would be legalized, of course it would not be 150 thousand but it could be 50 thousand and 100 thousand and so on, that local self-government units would need a tremendous amount of funds for municipal infrastructure because they need to be brought to the facility by municipal infrastructure. So we think that this fee could be divided by 50% to 50%, it means 50% to local self-government units, and 50% to all of those making these cards, energy efficiency, and everything that the state also doesn't have enough funding for this hour. In fact, these are our natural suggestions, requests to talk about it because we think the law should be passed, we think that the law should be allowed especially to those old objects that are 20, 30 years old, which will never collapse, that they can be legalised and that they can then traffic with these objects. So we certainly think that one part of the facilities should be legalized, but we think that we should discuss what we suggested should be discussed. The Croatian Democratic Community Club certainly estimates positive that this bill was found on our benches, but it also estimates that it is very good that it went to first reading and that in fact all those directly concerned, as well as local self-government units and everyone else can say what they think about it, such a proposal. I'm sure the ministry will accept certain proposals, of course not all of them, but one part of these proposals to allow people to get better legalisation of these facilities as soon as possible. The Croatian Democratic Community club will accept this bill in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75503	Thank you. SDP representative's club, Mr. Representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75504	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I think it's a rarity if from this pay phone behind the reasoning given by the HDZ Club and another club like the SDP can say that, here, we sort of agree with everything the club has said about a proposed law. I think it's a rarity, but I think colleague Marina Dropulić explained very simply why the law should be passed and all the shortcomings that we have been reading a very thin law that we think will solve all the accumulated problems that have not been solved for years will solve these problems. So here I am really asking on behalf of the SDP Club that all those remarks that we have and in our presentations that we will give, but also in written form that you have received from both the board and other professional associations that have published under this law, please try to appreciate it, so that in the second reading we may get a law that will be more feasible than this. If I remember correctly, Mr. Minister, according to the previous agenda point, you ended up when we discussed, of course, the spatial arrangement, those restrictions on the protected belt, the coastal belt of the island or this other one, you explained to us the inability of those squares or acres of how much arable the surface is, so familyly, we do all of that, all of that is close, it's all ok. And you finally expressed your deep belief that it couldn't happen, that it would somehow be commercialized in some other way or that space could be spent for some other purpose. So I really trust you, and I'm sure that can't happen. But this shouldn't have happened either. So, illegal construction in this size should not have happened in one orderly and regulated state. It shouldn't have happened, so it happened. That's what we were talking about when we criticized that previous law that things that weren't written happen, but they happen. That's life, and they are who they are. And we react accordingly to such things. Why is that? Well, when we got this bill, of course, it was immediately launched and a big public debate. However, counterpart Dropulić made it very clear, and you wrote that we were still faced with this illegal construction, which was not only in the past twenty years but from before, that we had tried and faced it in some way trying to resolve it on several occasions until '68. from another date. So here's in this past law that we've changed a little while ago, but we've allowed some possibility that something might have been resolved in that period, according to the Ministry's data. That's a little bit. 8,000 and some items have been solved. But I believe that these objects have been dealt with in a very serious way, that these are really legalized objects that aren't nakaradian, that don't endanger other objects near where they are, that don't energize visions of some kind or are not narcissistic in space. Reading this law gives the impression that this is not how it's going to work. Of course, at least that message that echoes in public is such that now everything that is illegal is all going to be legalized in some way is just a matter of price. I don't think it's a good message because it's unacceptable that with one such message or one such law that didn't properly evaluate everything goes with a message that it's going to be massively legalized, everything that's been illegally built without a prior quality analysis of the situation, assuming that sanctioning illegal builders can't be carried out and that legalisation will achieve at least a one-time profit to fill the state budget. I don't think it's a good thing and the proposed Law on Legalisation and Amendments to the Law on Spatial Planning is completely leaving the current system of legalisation of buildings and the adoption of standards of spatial planning and construction. So far we've had some kind of order in this mess, so I'm sorry that this order of what kind we're going to do is kind of speed it up, or at least it seems to me that the intensity of this law is that it's kind of a surgical acceleration, and we're not going to get quality solutions. I think that's why you should be careful with the announcements that this law will be able to legalize everything that's been done illegally. When you read the law, of course, the title itself, I think it's all so clumsy about words. So we'll legalize something that's illegal. Something that is illegal will become legal. One total noise in some kind of communication which is, which means we'll legalize what's illegal or it'll be legal what's been illegal so far. So you should say it differently that it doesn't really sound like it's going against each other in the head, no, what's legal, what's legal, what's illegal. Something illegal is illegal and it shouldn't be. He's going to jail or it crashes. That's how it was from the weekends, so I guess it should be in some new modern times just as important to keep it that way. So, we are aware of course as you do, Mr. Minister, that there is one terrible mess in the territory of the Republic of Croatia for which someone is guilty. The one who illegally built the family home where he and his family lived, I will concentrate on them, and I believe that there is not so much of them, that such is the least not guilty. Someone made it possible for him, or out of need, he did it. The system made a mistake somewhere. And even though we are aware that this exists for many years, we haven't done enough to protect that space in some way, but that even those people who didn't enter the building zone or I don't know why, but also because there's no other money, there's no possibility of making a house for him to live with his family and have a roof over his head. I'm not going to tell the HDZ government. All governments have been guilty since the beginning of the Republic of Croatia who have not been strong enough and sensitive enough to enter into the problem of lawless construction to reduce it in some way and to stop these sanctions that we should have, because without sanctions there will certainly not be any stopping of illegal construction to stop this illegal construction. I will repeat once again the Republic of Croatia has 4 and a half million inhabitants. 60% of the Republic of Croatia makes the sea, and the other is land and forests and what we call forest goods. 60% sea, coast. If we let this happen, in this case, the lawless builders are telling us how we're going to behave in space, it's a upside down fact, it's upside down. We or local self-government or state need to determine what's going to happen in space, and as the excess has already happened in space, we agree that the lawless builders are ordering us what this space is going to look like, because it is what it is. We're only adjusting it now to get some kind of legality and legitimacy and to be where it is. I think we all made a mistake here, because that's not good because I'm going to say it again. The Republic of Croatia is small and the space is, even the smallest space is very, very important. I'll say it one more time. We're not Russia to laugh, sorry to mention they're big, so we can do something wrong somewhere. Well, come on, we're gonna move, we're gonna turn our heads, we're not gonna see it, and it's not gonna hurt 'cause we still have space. We don't have room for future mistakes and future illegal construction that if we can call it that. So, in this space and the management of space is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia, and for every citizen of the Republic of Croatia to be left with a sentence of years to years, how we will deal with the accumulated problems of how we will deal with it. We made a commitment by this law that in 90 days, the local self-government unit would say what illegal buildings they were. I doubt they'll say that, if they're not so far and the state's boredom isn't, but the assumption is that it's 150 grand, I don't know, it's out of sleeves because those facts aren't there. Only if we recognize that in these 150 thousand less or more illegal buildings are included those structures which, by that logic, things shouldn't be buildings because it's either a staircase or a window is misopened or half a floor more upgraded, so it's out of some kind of building permit. So, that deadline to establish which is an illegal construction, I'm sure it won't be possible to achieve. And that's why this law that tries to solve 150 thousand unresolved or problematic buildings in the Republic of Croatia, and there are 30-page pages I'm afraid that in these 30 pages of the law don't fit all those differences that are when you get somewhere on the ground visible and that won't be covered by this law. We must send the message in another reading that this law should be adapted to the real situation or at least to the real situation somewhere on the ground that we can't get everything into this law because everyone won't be able to stop because it's too tight in 30 articles of this law. Because the situation in the field is very, very much and different. Perhaps we should focus primarily on, or at this point, special attention should be paid to the buildings of the former minister of these up to 400 square meters, meaning family, for housing only. Such people really need to be helped to legalize it in one easier way than this law will be predictable. So, all that's not family and it's not a roof over my family's head, but I live in a building or a building that has 3 floors, one apartment is mine, and this is the other apartment that I rent, I don't know if it should be legalized. It's not a roof over your head, it's a job, it's a business and it shouldn't be legalized. So, it's not that complicated thinking just needs to have the strength and courage to face this problem and start solving it without mercy where it's nakaradic and where there's no legal basis for maiming everything illegally. Once we have to show the state's determination not to allow ourselves to be with that country, even if I am a Croatian citizen to play. 'Cause tell me, I'll just say maybe I'm wrong, so I apologize that I'm not offended, that I'm not being sued, if I remember one famous Croatian military person in retirement or something like that, we've illegally built a facility, a dead cold man made another, we took pictures of it. Dead cold, and he said crash well yet, I've got more money and I'll still build an illegally built facility. I mentioned it because it's known what I'm talking about. There are others who are also well-known, who are also thinking, who are also building and that will be so until order is established because this law does not now guarantee that these illegal constructions will no longer be, it does not guarantee. We'll grab each other's dates and then we'll send a message to another date when some other people come in and then we'll solve that problem again. I think that's why you should respect the remarks we've heard or heard or that you're going to get from the professional associations you're going to get, try to appreciate that. And of course, in the second reading, it would be very good if it were categories, some categories of those structures that can be legalized, no matter how illegal it is to legalize them and those that can't be legally legalized. That's what I think you should stand by, first of all take care of the people who've done it by force for a roof over their heads. Anything else that's turned into a commercial and reselling, I don't think it should be legalized because that way we do damage and send the wrong message to people who did everything legal, all within the law. Bought land, paid a utility fee, this one, that one and built a house. What do we do with them? They'll say the same thing. I won't respect any legal state another time. I'll do it again as I please. I don't think it's a good message from this law. And of course, in any case, since I'm sure it's not exactly what the public is saying, it's a one-time message, it's a pre-election message, and it's also a budgeting, I'm sure it's not. So I ask you, then, that part of these revenues that we will be in the RS budget by penalties or payments, that that part of the income is really half-and-half because all of the burdens and work will be carried out by local self-government units. Here, so please make sure that part of the income, if that's the case, is in local self-government units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75505	Thank you. Minister Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75506	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here's Mr. Denona's way of asking me to make some remarks or suggestions, suggestions on what we're going to call them to be seen in a certain way. Well, I said it in my introduction, but now I'm going to do it again. We are from records that we have made one assessment of how many of these facilities in Croatia could be. I believe that we will be able to tell with certainty how many buildings are built without building acts, and we will certainly be able to do so along with the units of local self-government and our construction inspection that is already working on that one record and establishing the final number of illegal buildings. What is certainly, as much as I have heard from the debate and what the public is saying, however, is that it is not possible and there is no policy, there is no simple political will to make a decision to bring down 150 thousand objects in Croatia. We must be aware of that, and we are probably aware of that, and you who are discussing this law today. And then what happens after that? There are 2 options: either to bury the head in the sand and pretend that these objects do not exist and that they are not or are to be dealt with by these objects and to be aware in advance that all of us legalists will not be popular because we have entered into the process of legalizing something that has been done against the law. And that's an objective criticism of this law that just isn't easy to defend. But if we said we wouldn't bury our heads in the sand and pretend that these objects around us don't exist in space then we'd have to write a law that respects certain maximum possible spatial planning criteria to make these objects that don't so much jump out of the general settings of the Law on Spatial arrangement of our thinking what they should look like to write a law that they can legalize. But the question arises after that. If we wrote a law that instead of 30 pages would have 300 pages that might have accepted in its text everything many spatial plans today mean and if we found that this fund of objects that today immobilized property remained so far out of it that again it was not easy to bring it all down together and the question arises, which and afterwards. And if we have said that we will approach the legalisation process by preserving vital space, the space that is protected by either because it represents national parks, nature parks, cultural goods, important infrastructure corridors, maritime good, water well, when we have confirmed all this, we agree that we can until the second reading respect everything that President Dropulić has said, as you said, and Mr. Koračević we can still move on to further regulation of the procedures how and how to enable that legalisation. Realizing that when it is today, in a year we will have to make a decision that it is not legal to break it down. It has also been said that no clear message has been sent that we will stop illegal construction in Croatia. And I think a clear message has been sent and it has already been rejected in a certain way as a possibility. Emphasizing that the lawless object that after December 31st is an illegal object continues to be an extra commercial, that this object can never again be a matter of legal traffic is a clear message to all future builders that what they have done beyond the law cannot even be the subject of succession. And I'm not afraid to send a message on behalf of the government or as a resolute minister to anyone that if they build an illegal facility that then the land on which that facility was built can't be a matter of legal traffic. And this one seems to me to be one of the strongest messages of this law that goes towards lawless builders in a way to tell them, can never be in legal traffic, will be excluded from municipal infrastructure, will be excluded from other infrastructures and it is necessary for such thinking to be monitored by both Croatian courts and the Croatian judiciary. And that today the law has been prescribed very high and strict penalties for the lawless builders. It is necessary that, on that trail in which we have declared that an illegal facility really destroys space, it violates the legal order I would say to the Republic, that this facility must be properly sanctioned by prescribing the strictest penalties provided for by law and not small. If someone were to start building their foundations and be punished with 100 thousand kunas as soon as the law provides, I don't think that and if that punishment were to be realised very quickly through the exercise and I think it would help to stop the construction. Therefore, I agree that it is possible and we will go into further development of the possibility of legalisation, but we must be aware that everything that remains outside of legalization really needs to be properly sanctioned and that means that we need to know if units of local self-government have no intention of going into further legalisation of these objects that these objects must be destroyed. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75507	Thank you. At 16,36, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. HDSSB representative club Mr. Denko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75508	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, In the Republic of Croatia there are 150 thousand illegal objects of which more than 100 thousand are estimated to be the only source of existence for our agricultural producers above all in Slavonia and Baranja. For years, we have been warning the competent Ministry of Agriculture of the need for a systematic and legal solution to this problem mainly in light of Croatia's EU accession. During the pre-accession negotiations in the agriculture chapter, Croatian negotiators accepted the EU standard by which each agricultural producer must have a legalised agricultural facility because, otherwise, it not only loses its right to support but also makes it impossible to apply non-pre-accession, structural and cohesion funds of the EU. This is precisely why our agricultural producers could not adapt their facilities to EU standards because they were impossible to withdraw funding from EU pre-accession funds. However, the competent ministry has not heard of these major problems that have long been warned by many peasant associations. The development and prosperity of agriculture is of immense importance to Slavonia and Baranja. For this reason, the HDSSB Club sent the Croatian Assembly a little more than two months ago a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction as an emergency procedure. With this bill, we wanted to contribute primarily to an effective solution to the problem of illegal construction in agriculture, or all objects in the function of agricultural production built by 31 December 2010 at minimum financial costs. The proposed law would make all the agricultural buildings built by that date legal. The approximation of Croatia's entry into the EU brings together the problem of illegally built agricultural buildings that must comply with EU rules, which is a huge cost for farmers who are barely surviving. Given that we are all in Croatia in a difficult economic crisis, because of which the owners of agricultural buildings simply do not have the means to legalise agricultural production facilities by taking care of the dramatic situation in agriculture that is threatened by a complete collapse, we have suggested that in a simple way they are legalised by an emergency procedure and at no cost by the existing agricultural buildings built by 31 December 2010. The state, cities and municipalities would remain that way without part of the revenue and fees, but so far it has been unrealistic to expect these revenues to ever be charged. However, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has rejected our proposal, explaining that it wants to address the problem of legalisation only of agricultural buildings, which would lead the owners of buildings of other purposes to an unequal position. This view of the government is unargumented because citizens are not placed in an unequal position but only determines another type of building that is legally considered legal. According to that logic, this whole article in the current law would be unconstitutional because this article sets out certain categories of buildings that are considered legal. In addition, the Croatian government has specifically pointed out that legalisation of illegal buildings must be carried out individually at the request of investors or owners. There's no point in talking too much about this attitude because until now, individual approach was possible, so obviously it didn't work out. Finally, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has pointed out that our proposal for a law proposes an addition to the provisions of Article 330 of Chapter 6 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law which cannot be adopted because the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law cannot be amended or complemented. Gentlemen of the Government, this explanation is a pearl of its kind because this government, and also the Croatian Parliament in this same law published in the "National Journal" No. 38 of 24 March 2009 amended Article 345, which was also in these Transition and Final Provisions. It is amazing that this government's stubbornness, which, after a brief procedure, refused to propose its own law only after a week or two which is completely incomprehensible, is difficult to implement for our farmers too, and in reality avoids really solving the problem of illegal agricultural buildings. This Government proposal will make it impossible to address the issue of legalisation of other objects in the function of agriculture, from manipulative surfaces, fertilisers, trafostations, floor warehouses, descending caves, plastics and other buildings in the function of agriculture. In addition, the proposed law lays down the obligation to pay the municipal and water contribution, the fee for the retention of an illegal building in space. According to the minister, it is a cost of 70 to 100 thousand kuna, which will ultimately be a huge financial commitment that our farms simply cannot bear. The proposed law that is before us today is entirely unclear and inconclusive, but it is also evident that its purpose is not to legalise objects in the function of the economy, especially agriculture, but rather to favour the legalization of illegally built apartments and residential spaces. At the proposed Government's proposal for a law on the treatment of illegal buildings, we also have a number of concrete objections from which I will single out the following. We primarily want to draw attention to the fact that the law provides for the legalization of buildings alone, not buildings. This will make it impossible, among other things, to address the issue of legalisation of buildings that are in the function of buildings that serve to carry out agricultural activities. Namely, the building marks a much narrower concept of the building and implies a closed or covered building intended for human beings, i.e. the accommodation of animals, plants and things while the building is a general concept that marks everything that was created by construction. Almost every building has one or more buildings, for example, even a family apartment building has at least a track access and a parking space. Of course, in the case of production agricultural buildings, such buildings are more numerous, such as accessible and manipulative surfaces, open and uncovered storage areas, outdoor facilities, fertilisers, lagoons, cleaning devices, trafostations, gas stations and the like. Clearly, the legalization of buildings themselves does not mean anything in these examples because such buildings simply cannot function without these buildings. This will make it impossible, among other things, to achieve the necessary prerequisite for the legality of agricultural buildings to apply for incentives from pre-accession funds. We therefore propose regulation and legalisation of buildings because otherwise there will be illegal buildings, such as the mentioned trafostations, public lighting, other infrastructures. Secondly, we consider it unnecessary and unsustainable regulation of the obligation to record the building on the digital orthophoto map of the State Geodesy Administration made on the basis of the aerographic recording of the Republic of Croatia completed on 30.11.2009. In fact, this recording obviously lasted a long period of time, so in different parts of Croatia buildings will be recorded at different times, which will lead citizens into an unequal position. Furthermore, the law provides for the possibility of legalising buildings that are under construction and after the shooting, and until the law enters into force so that this video obviously does not matter. We further believe that the date by which buildings built can be legalised under this law should be completed because of the equality of citizens, and for all buildings after that date or not covered by the law should be left with a regular legalisation procedure in the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. The provisions of paragraph 5 of Article 5 of Article 5 indicate that only agricultural and family buildings involving agricultural activities, with the provision of catering and tourist services and which do not provide such services, can be legally legalised on agricultural and family land P1. Article 5(2) of the proposed law prevents legalisation of buildings to be built on the surfaces of public purposes, e.g. Mortuary. It's also a vague notion of the surface of public purpose. If the area of public purpose is considered an area defined as such by a document of spatial arrangement or by one used as such in nature. We consider it a bad solution to introduce and as one of the conditions in the administrative procedure the consent of the party, and that is precisely the one that reported someone to the inspection because it opens the door to blackmail and leads to legal uncertainty. It is noted that administrative bodies carrying out the tasks of issuing acts for the implementation of spatial planning and construction documents are set up for this very purpose and do not have the right option to carry out the tasks of calculating the fees for the retention of an illegal building in space, and even less for the forced collection of funds paid to the state and local self-government for which payments do not have the possibility or registration. Finally, we believe that units of local self-government will not be able to prepare the list in Article 28 of the proposed law or see its purpose. These are just some remarks, and in general we believe that such an important law is incomplete and that it will certainly not achieve a declared purpose. We propose that this proposal be only a starting point for a broader expert debate in which it is certainly necessary to include bodies to implement it. Finally, from the perspective of the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja, and especially from our farmers, there is another particularly important reason for our dissatisfaction. This bill was another opportunity for the government of the Republic of Croatia to show that it cares about the even and even development of all parts of Croatia. Unfortunately, like so many times so far, and this time it's another one in a number of missed opportunities. In this sense, I would like to remind all representatives of the Croatian Parliament, as well as the entire Croatian public of several important facts. As the strategic branches of the Croatian economy, all relevant institutions always highlight shipbuilding and agriculture. Shipbuilding is naturally the main strategic branch of the coastal part of Croatia, and the main strategic branch of the continental before the Slavonian-Baranja economy is agriculture. Croatia is located at the door of entry into Europe. Like many other countries, we have been facing a huge economic crisis for several years. The economic crisis has affected every part of the Republic of Croatia, there is no dilemma. However, the burden of the crisis has not been distributed equally to all parts of it. The unreasonable policy of all the so far-called Governments of the Republic of Croatia, especially the government policy in the last seven years of Slavonia and Baranja, once the richest end of the Republic of Croatia became its poorest and most neglected and underdeveloped part. And then it's no surprise that we have a bill like this for citizens of Slavonia and Baranja who live on agriculture could even be called a mockery. Because how else to describe the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia a month ago not only forgave the shipyards the guarantees amounting to 11.3 billion kuna, but with interest, tax debt and already forgiven maritime well-being fees of 8.1 billion kuna, the forgiven debt of the shipyard amounts to even more than 20 billion kuna. Not only is it forgiven. It has been turned into a public debt that will be paid for by all Croatian citizens in the coming years. So also citizens of Slavonia and Baranja. And what is best is we in Slavonia and Baranja are the first to think that shipyards should be helped because every job was what was in Dalmatia, Istria, Lica, Zagorje, Međimurje, Zagreb but also in Slavonia and Baranja is equally important. But not a month after forgiveness of the long shipbuilding not only 11.3 but more than 20 billion kuna for farmers there is no mercy. What should have been the most important in this law, and this is a simple and cheap legalisation of all agricultural buildings with this bill, it is impossible to implement. Because what a blow to Croatian agriculture could be best said is that legalisation of about 100,000 illegal agricultural facilities and current laws require about 10 billion kunas that the village simply does not have. And now with this bill of law, it's going to take even more. Because the amount of 70 to 100000 kunas that will be paid under this proposal by law on the legalisation of a farm should be added to the amount of legalisation fees of which even 75% goes into the state budget for the time being. If the exact announcements in the media are that this will range from 25 to 50%, then the cost of legalising agricultural buildings from the current ten billion will rise to at least 13 billion kuna and perhaps more. Guided by the knowledge that only about 4% of Croatia's agricultural buildings are legal today, and that in the current conditions of the difficult situation in agriculture, it is impossible to find the means to legalise them we have proposed a quick and cheap legalisation of agricultural facilities in order not to bring about a massive suspension of agricultural production, and therefore jobs that will cause catastrophic consequences for the Republic of Croatia especially for Slavonia and Baranja. Instead of cheap legalization of agricultural facilities here, we have a proposal that shouts skin and such poor farmers, and no one would say that this would be unusual here I will only give an example of some other countries that have similarly implemented the legalization of their illegally built objects. Slovenia has already been mentioned before the entry into the European Union carried out general legalisation and it is quick and cheap. Serbia passed a regulation two months ago that allowed large discounts at an earlier legalisation price, with discounts of as much as 60% to 99%. Montenegro, which has about 100,000 illegal buildings, intends to provide its citizens with favourable loans to pay the costs. In Macedonia, 1 euro per square metre will be charged, and the amount will be payable in 12 wars. In addition to the above, it is also disputed that a large part of the area is excluded from the possibility of legalisation, for example, the most valuable farmland except for those which provide catering and tourist services as part of the agricultural activity while, on the other hand, the protected coastal belt is reduced to 70 metres, and even within that belt, legalisation of permanent housing buildings and agricultural activities buildings providing catering and tourist services is allowed. We also have a disputed provision under which the reconstruction of such legalized buildings must be re-authorised for the whole building together with the reconstructed part. It's final. You can hear in professional circles these days that this is a bad bill. Obviously, many have, due to the current topic, the proposal was made in a hurry only to wave it in the election campaign. Others again believe that it is probably quite justified that this way on a small door is because of the problem of agriculture that enables the legalisation of buildings in a protected coastal belt that they have destroyed for good and could never be legalised on a regular basis. For these reasons, the HDSSB club cannot accept this bill and we hope that you will also take account of our comments and suggestions for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75509	Thank you. Now we're going to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75510	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would say that this law that sort of complements that this morning's and solves the truth of other problems is also another good proposal from the government that is ready to face and some issues that no one wanted to face for decades or ultimately had the strength to solve this problem that has plagued many citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The very fact that there is somewhere around by rough estimates about 150,000 illegally built objects speaks enough about how many families are covered by this problem and how many are actually living in some uncertainty all these years. Of course, you can tell yourself they're guilty of this uncertainty, they're self-involved in building illegal objects. But on the other hand, it is certain that much of them simply had no other way of solving their housing problems but simply accessing illegal construction in the way they approached. Therefore, it is to praise the government's intention and the intention of the ministry to finally resolve this issue and, of course, not to allow any illegal construction in the future, because today the laws and legal standards that have been reached in these same laws have properly regulated the areas of construction and, of course, by adopting all the necessary acts of spatial planning, or spatial plans, of course, that it is necessary to align their wishes with what is provided for the basis of decisions, legal decisions of the units of local self-government, or their representative bodies. In that sense, I want to welcome this law, I want to welcome the way it is being solved. Much has already been said in the debate itself and by the minister here pointed out and the way in which special criteria will be calculated for the price of the whole process and legalisation. But it's also important this deadline he mentioned, which is by the end of next year. So, by the end of 2012, all those who want to legalise the object must simply apply and thus have to show on their own that what has been illegal so far is to be coordinated first and foremost if possible with plans that are already in force, as has already been done with some 8 thousand and a half objects. On the other hand, it is also possible for those who have not been covered by the current plan regulation to simply legalise their houses, i.e. buildings covered by this law in question. The fact is that you continue to protect a valuable, highly valuable space. The fact is that a protected coastal belt, to protect national parks, to protect the routes of those objects that are of public interest, which are of national interest. So all that needs to be protected is still in force and it's still being protected and in that sense I think it's well regulated. But here was the talk that in the last 20 years, I think that if you look at how much illegal objects have been built in the last 20 years to make it significantly less than the number of objects that have been built illegally in a former system where there has really been a mess. Simply put, a complete mess. A kind of riot was made by the government's 2001 decision, which was spoken of by Ms. Marina Matulović Dropulić, under which illegal buildings could have been connected to the municipal infrastructure, which introduced really an additional mess in this area. And it was really incomprehensible, in fact, here's a particular case of rental of overnight buildings, private tenants who were attached to the municipal infrastructure, paying for normal utility. On the other hand, they couldn't legalize their business because their facility wasn't legalized. And of course they were working on black. In addition to their construction being illegally built, they were still doing the job of renting their property to tourists and were not, of course, covered by the law, even for a time the law was such that the inspections of tourists who visited and controlled accommodation in private tenants were not actually allowed by law to go to these non-legislative facilities, which were not registered. Which was absurd over the absurds. Today this issue is also resolved, so the issue of legalization of all these objects is extremely important because it will make life easier for many families and it really needs to be understood for those who are the only housing solution, and it is the largest number. In addition, I agree with Mr Buric, in part, that it is necessary absolutely to enable the resolution of the facilities on agricultural holdings which are important for family farms to be legalised and that part, of course, takes care of what I said at the beginning of space protection, of highly valuable agricultural land, of everything that is still protected by the law. So, a large number of agricultural facilities, agricultural buildings will also be legalized through this law, and in that sense I think it will come to the approval of all those who deal with agriculture not only in Slavonia, the good part of such objects is also on the coast itself. So, both in the sea and in the coastal part of Croatia. There have also been talks here that space is our fundamental resource, which is absolutely a fact for both economic development and overall development, but it is forgotten that the most uninhabited part of Croatia can actually be said the coastal part of Croatia. A large part of the island is uninhabited, largely. Only one smaller number of islands are inhabited by residents. And when you look at the coast of Prevlaka and you will also see a large number of surfaces that have not one single building which on the one hand can be a beautiful landscape, nature intact, but on the other hand it is also a potential space that can be economically and exploited. I hope that we all understand that, above all, spatial plans are the basis for economic development and the fact is that in the last seven years, this issue has actually been resolved, that today all units of local self-government have their own spatial plans. This was one big step forward, and indeed all those involved in this work deserve praise because today we have really the right foundations that regulate them, therefore, all of this spatial problem and create preconditions for economic development. We should also consider that much more orderly countries than we are in this regard, let's say one Austria that we often take in our mouths when we talk about land books has ways of building that, if applied in Croatia, it is difficult for us to be sure that such construction methods could be legalized. When you go through Austria, you can see on numerous slopes of a lonely building, a lonely house, a lonely building where, of course, someone lives and works. So, this is one of course way of building that is certainly suitable for Austria and their tradition, but this tradition is also started one day, it has not always been quite safe and should be seen which are all possible building modes in extra-building areas that will be very strictly prescribed because there is really no reason why these natural resources are not put first of all as the basis of economic development and not to be used in one positive sense. Here, I wouldn't spend much more words, I think there's really a lot of things said in this law and that the law is good, that it'll probably experience improvements for a second reading. We can only express our satisfaction and commend Minister Bačić and his associates and here present Mrs Sunarevic for what they have prepared and we expect that this text will be completed until the second reading to be accepted by me, I believe the entire Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75511	Thank you. Madam Representative Mirela Holly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75512	Thank you, Vice President. The fact is that today's situation is unsustainable as far as illegal construction is concerned, because in Croatia we have 150 thousand or maybe even twice as many illegal buildings, and it is certain that all these buildings will indeed not be able to be torn down or removed. This situation creates a huge legal inequality between those who respected the laws and those who did not comply with the laws, but also those who built against the law and whose houses were torn down and those whose houses were not broken down even though they also built against the law. This is a very serious problem, and the causes of its creation are numerous, and some of them are mentioned in the opening part of this law. The responsibility for today's sad situation in space is shared by everyone because this is not the problem in the last 4, 10 or even 20 years, but it is a much longer problem. This situation reflects the absence of a culture of construction in Croatia and respecting space as the most valuable resource in Croatia, and it is not only a crime of one political option or political elite as a whole but it is a crime of the entire society from politics to experts and experts, as well as ordinary citizens and citizens who think it is easy to build without respecting the laws. Given that this is an extremely serious problem which has a large number of faces and features on this problem and its resolution, it is necessary to approach it extremely seriously and responsibly. Unfortunately, the bill we're discussing today is not such a document. Even if the law is excellent, and it's not as I mentioned logically is to ask the question, why does the government offer it now means only a few months before the end of the term if it didn't feel necessary to do so over the past 4 years of office. It is therefore justified to conclude that this bill is primarily about two motives or two things. First of all, it is about the political use of HDZ, which in a pool of over 150 thousand lawless builders plans to catch many votes. Another reason that is somewhat less important is also filling the empty budget of the Republic of Croatia, more so when it is known that it is precisely from the compensation or punishment that illegal builders for legalisation will have to pay 75% of the plans to pour into the budget of the state. These motives make us particularly cautious in this regard, although there is no doubt that the state is obliged to address this extremely large problem. But there is a key point in how this will be done and will prevent the alleged resolution of this problem from causing even greater damage. I find it extremely difficult to believe that the state is able to solve the problem in quality when it does not have a fundamental tool to solve it, which is a representation of the situation in space or the correct recording of the situation we are actually facing. And now the question is why we don't actually have a report on the state of the room as well as on the programme of measures to improve the situation in space, or to improve the situation in space, which I remind the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction has been thrown out of the law in 2007 and which definitely also contributed to the deterioration of this problem. That's where I'd mention that even the promoter is on the page. 2. in the opening part of this law, I quote "Because of the long-term lack of systematic monitoring and recording of illegal buildings does not have accurate data, their total number today in the Republic of Croatia is estimated to be significantly exceeding 150 thousand. Among other things, this has resulted in a lack of awareness of the Catastrian operator and land books that today do not represent the real situation. This excludes a large number of illegal family houses and households from the possibility of transporting real estate or carrying out economic activity in such buildings." So something like that is really scary for a state of order. The next important question this law does not answer is clear criteria for legalisation. What can be legalized, under what conditions, with how many fines, diversification of penalties, etc. I think the key to solving this problem is in these two points. So, in general, it can also be legalised that what can be legalised and what can be legalised is adequately sanctioned by strict financial penalties. Because otherwise, citizens and citizens of Croatia are told that respect for the law is not worth it, that the laws in Croatia respect fools and that laws should actually be ignored because this is the way to do something. Unfortunately, the vast majority of those who do not comply with the laws will only be forced to follow the law if the repressive apparatus is just and effective. In this case, it means drastic financial punishment, not punishment, because people like that only if they get hit on the wallet in the future think carefully about the need to respect the laws. Unless they pay the fine then, the state has yet another very powerful force instrument at its disposal, and that is the exercise, and if it is necessary to perform the disputed real estate. And now I'm going to look back on some specific articles of this proposal. I will primarily refer to Article 5 which, in my opinion, needs to be significantly more precise. It mentions which buildings or facilities will be excluded from legalisation, and according to those standard already existing things, buildings and buildings located in protected natural areas and in areas of some cultural units, cultural goods, then buildings located on the infrastructure corridors, regardless of whether they are corridors at national level or in a unit of regional or local self-government are mentioned and other exceptions, that is agricultural land of important categories of these, then economic and protection forests, archaeological sites, protection of specific water protection areas, within the sanitary zone of drinking water protection, exploitation fields of mineral raw materials, etc. However, later criteria do not say enough that with different technical conditions such buildings should also respect, energy efficiency guidelines, fire-fighting criteria, etc. I would also mention Article 10 which suspends the provisions of the roof administrative regulation. It's the General Administrative Procedure Act, which definitely shouldn't happen. Then I will refer to Article 21 concerning this fee schedule. And in my opinion, compensation should fully mean 100 % of the amount to the units of local self-government for the purpose of building infrastructure or improving the state of infrastructure because citizens who have built under the law whose money and funded infrastructure has been cut off by the quality level of the municipal standard that has been reduced by this illegal construction. Finally, legalising illegal construction is an extremely important topic and a major problem for Croatia. This problem needs to be solved as much as possible, and in my opinion it is not possible in a few months before the end of the term without an accurate picture of the situation, without clear criteria and without a desire to strike a balance of legal balance between those who respect and those who do not respect the laws, and that is possible only through financial repression. This legislative proposal devastates the idea of a culture of construction and in this sense its harmful effects can be irrevocable. The Croatian Parliament as the highest legislative body of the Republic of Croatia whose duty is to protect the public interest and ensure that the constitution is respected in that sense must be obliged not to adopt laws that legalise different rules of play and freedom from law. As representatives and advocates, we have to worry about elementary justice because otherwise we give the right to those who claim that in Croatia the laws do not apply to all, and that is, of course, terrible. That's it. I can see my time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75513	Thank you. A few credentials and replicas. First corrections. Mr. Representative Ivo Scissor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75514	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Madam Secretary of State. I would correct Mrs. Holly's incorrect claim that this is a crime of the entire society. This is not the crime of the whole society, but only those who participated in illegal construction, or those structures that did not sanction such behaviour. Second, I find it incorrect, to be brought in because of the elections, meaning for some political or political reasons. That's not true, but it's simply the fact that so much has accumulated that once it has to start clearing up this matter. You said yourself, it can't all collapse, it can't be legalized. So there's still something to start working on, and I think this is a good approach. HDZ may not even gain confidence in this, and there may be more who are opposed to legalizing something than they will, so they may even lose on this. However, it is not in the interest of HDZ now how much it will gain on this voter but to sanction this situation and that is the real motive and therefore this should be supported, this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75515	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75516	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Holly said this law is a political cab that the HDZ is trying to reach out to a large number of votes. That's incorrect. This is the responsible approach of a dear colleague to one of the problems that should be dealt with or stuck in the sand. But that problem existed at the time of our coalition government, but you are willing to criticise it. I once said here one expression that they remembered, or the ori or the plow is left, you understand, and we're obviously ready for deep and quality plowing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75517	Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric. Who remembered, remembered.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75518	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to correct Mrs. Holly's wrong quote that says, it's already partially fixed, and which says what's wrong, they want voices to catch up and fill up an empty state register. Well, colleagues Holly, you have seen in the very bill that the situation of illegal construction will be resolved faster, that the Catastrian opera will also improve, that the pressures with changes and additions of spatial planning documents on cities, municipalities will be reduced in the law of illegal buildings. Also, this law will strengthen the responsibilities of mayors, mayors and mayors of municipalities in the resolution of illegal buildings, thus protecting natural values. There are still a lot of arguments to support the adoption of such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75519	Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75520	Thank you very much. Here I am correcting the incorrect allegations because my colleague said, as my colleagues have already said, that this is a political decision. My colleague Holly, I really don't understand your rhetoric because it's really full of philosophy. You're just a woman who used to work there in that ministry and I'm surprised you're talking like that. It obviously doesn't suit you that this government has now adopted this bill, but we people coming from the economy, from the local self-government units know what this means. Therefore, amendments and additions to the spatial plan to be made within the shortest time limit, to the adoption of plans, etc. You say it's political law. So don't tell the truth, and don't once again use words and philosophize, this is a law that will solve many problems. You can laugh, but it is certain that people who use this law in the future will benefit greatly, especially local self-government units, and it will certainly solve many problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75521	Replications. First, Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75522	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Holly, I think we're all aware that there's so much trouble that this law is actually inevitable. Now is it in this form, is it in this time a question, but the first is reading, so it will certainly be appreciated the remarks that have been heard today and that you have received in writing. I agree with you that it is legally uneven, namely the message is being sent what is illegal, illegal, in fact it will be legalized. The question, of course, is what is wrong with those who have been destroyed, that is, those who are legalists, who are being held legally and who have not sinned at all about the law regarding these constructions. But the largest number of illegal buildings is, of course, contrary to the plan and there are few that can actually be included in the plan. I have not applied for the debate, but I would use this replica to ask the minister to explain Article 12 where it says that one of the conditions for issuing a solution to the implementation state, so on legalisation of these buildings, is stated in paragraph 3. the unconditional consent of the party that submits the application to the building inspection for construction, and legalisation means now requesting its investor. Which means, is it even possible to achieve it at all, who will give consent to someone if they have previously reported it to a construction inspection, which means that basically the applicant dictates whether or not this object can actually be legalized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75523	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75524	Well, colleagues of Tatjana, I, too, certainly hope that until the second reading, the Ministry and the Government will carefully consider all remarks and a much better quality document to show that the aim of this law, the urgency behind this law, is indeed to solve a major social problem, not to undermine the party's interest. Since I have really worked at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, I may be more than many colleagues sitting on the right are familiar with the depth of this problem and it is really not a very simple problem, and perhaps it should have been mentioned in the reasons why we have in Croatia today and we have more than 150 000 illegally built objects and corruptions that rule in the context of red tape, which has largely made it impossible for many investors and builders to work according to the law to certain parts of Croatia. And it's a huge responsibility of society, and that's why I think it really is the crime of society as a whole because we really don't have a culture of construction, or people don't realize that space is one resource that's irrevocable if it's devastated and they don't really understand how important it is to build and plan to use space according to certain professional parameters.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75525	Mr. Representative Goran Heffer, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75526	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Holly, this law has great reasons in any case for and great reasons against the adoption of his. The fact is, you did not point out that it will cause huge legal inequalities among the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. There are already opinions that he, therefore, is not fully established. It's in the media and those kinds of statements. For example, regarding the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, which in Article 8 speaks of the occurrences of discrimination, it says in the conduct of the authorities in the area of housing. Because the fact is that while some respected the rules of building their houses and thus solving their housing needs, others have been knowingly going against the law, breaking the law, saving time, saving money, and so on. And now in the end, everything will be forgiven. It'll cost them something, of course, but they'll be spared all those traumas, those police, the destruction of houses and everything else. The question arises whether it is entirely legal or constitutional. Of course, there are reasons for that. We heard each other. But the question is, does this bill just solve this problem? And I agree that the first reading provides some sort of background, but there's a lot more to be done here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75527	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75528	Dearest colleague Heffer, I think that my colleagues and colleagues from HDZ have not realized that we are not a priori against, means resolving this problem to solve this problem wherever possible by legalising or resuscitating illegal construction. But it really doesn't matter how this is resolved, will it be resolved by creating a huge gap between people who respected the laws and respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia and those who, on some occasion and consciously defied the laws of the Republic of Croatia and thus rewarded them with such an award. And for this reason, it is necessary to elaborate well on the criteria of how it will be legalised and what will be legalised in the first place, and that in those equative examples it goes with drastic financial punishment, because this is the only way to ensure that a certain legal balance between people who respected the laws of the Republic of Croatia and those who did not. And I think it's a thing that no one in this assembly can object to.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75529	Minister, Mr. Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75530	Well, here's what I'm going to do, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable MPs and MPs will answer to two, three remarks that have just been made. First of all, I want to say that the fact that this law is passed is not due to budgeting. But if you hold that this law is passed for the purpose of filling the budget, then I assume you know that the resources of this law will be made in 2012 or 2013. That means you actually believe that this same government will be after the election. Because then it fills the budget to make it easier for itself to work in a mandate that follows after the election. Well, I thank you for that. As far as Mrs. Tatjana's answer is concerned, it's exactly what it says. If a party directly bordering with an illegal facility or units of local self-government has entered into force by 30 November 2009 to report to a construction inspection or to a competent court that facility will not be legalised unless the party that has filed a report to the Civil Inspectorate or to the competent court has issued such consent, or withdraws its application, because it is to assume that such building which is contrary to the spatial plan is a violation of constitutional law or, in any other way, the value of the particle, adjacent particles, or such a building, such an illegal building can indeed not be legalised. One of the preconditions, therefore, that the facility could be legalised or illegal, could legalise the applicant to withdraw that application at the time of the decision on the state of play.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75531	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75532	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. A few years ago, so a man came to me in the wake of the destruction of houses in Rogoznica and said I have a big problem, and my problem is just as much the same as the state does. I'm asking him, so what's your problem? Well, my problem is I do, which is my house as illegal as the state is illegal. That's what he said. I believe this bill basically has a good idea and that really the state should once be told and rescheduled, look the truth in the eyes and resuscitate the existing state. However, how power is capable of not having these things happen in the future. Because it's not just going to resuscitate the existing state, which is in the future. How she teamed up in that sense and how strong and willing she is to make these and what changed in nature in the country that these things don't happen anymore because then this is pointless. And we haven't even heard in the public that this is happening because the solutions to the collapse of buildings remain which the state says, that is, inspectors that there aren't enough and can't make their own decisions. And how are they gonna be able to do that tomorrow if that happens? So what are the basic assumptions that this situation does not occur? Because none, most of them, I'm not going to tell those angry people who built them, man has to have an apartment, it's his natural need. And as guilty as they are, it's even more the fault of the state that it's all these, and through all these and former authorities, and past systems that made it possible or tolerated. And that problem won't solve itself and it couldn't solve itself, but it's still escalating. And the further time went on, the bigger the problem. And it's good to draw a line once and take care of these things, but also to establish mechanisms that don't happen anymore. That's two basic things, then. These are plans, such plans are made because there have been such units of local self-government before, such small municipalities and smaller towns where, for example, in Međimurje, the example may have been Chakovec where the problem was unknown. Why? 'Cause things got out of hand. Well, they don't live there any different people, but because it was all planned and people got licenses in a few days. And who'd have thought to build it in vain. But in conditions where there's no plan, where it's not urbanized, where someone gets a license, and the others can't get it, where the demands stand for years and don't get rid of what people do? Therefore, it is the problem of inefficientness of the state. That's what we're taking care of right now. The problem of illegal construction is visible, but what is even more dangerous about what has not been said, and how is it possible that someone has been given permission where construction is banned? These are the problems we haven't talked about yet. And there are, there were, and they just happened. And not to mention the old corruption problem that units of local self-government forbid construction, it's a lot of people's property, a lot of property, a sale of invaluable property, and then it becomes a building plot. A few people came to me about the return of property in Zadar that says you'll never get it, but if you sell it to us, you make a commitment to sell it, you'll get so much closer and closer so I don't tell everyone what it is, which is more or less familiar to everyone. And they say it's not true, but we see the consequences that's exactly how it happened. Which way and how exactly it happened then is some place else to argue, but not here. But that's our biggest problem. So the bigger problem with illegal construction is building with a building permit that someone got, and he shouldn't have gotten it. And it's got her, I'll repeat, in the space where the construction is forbidden. Five building permits were issued in Zadar last year. Just five building permits. These are also there and that's the problem when it came to the jurisdiction that people were actually the intensity of this law was just when they came to the units of local self-government, so when that jurisdiction of the county moved to cities and municipalities that would speed up the processes. Obviously, some preparatory activities were to be carried out, and people were to be teamed up, or departments that issue building permits. However, when doing this, not to repeat what my colleagues had previously said, we must not make a new injustice, and that is primarily against neighbors and neighbouring buildings, and that people who have neat documentation, have building permits, and in their neighborhood and even opposing the right to lean on their building or work very close to that building. What's it gonna be? And that's how they do them harm every day. Not only with harmful emissions but also by blocking the long-standing right of view, light, looks at everything in all, so when it's illegal construction, then the rules of the Property Act and other real rights are not respected. So here we need to ask a special question not to create here because it goes to meet citizens, which is good on one hand, but we must not grieve and anger people and create injustice for people who have been good citizens all these years, believed in the rule of law and were disciplined citizens, respected all the rules. So, not to mutilate such buildings that have caused damage to neighbours and who are already in litigation proceedings, so property-legal relations not only among heirs but mostly speaking about neighbouring rights. What's gonna happen? You can't by this law, this law could only say in principle about these things. It cannot substitute or disabling rules that are laid down and legal in the Law of Property and other real rights. What about long-term litigation? Well, 70% of litigation is about things like this or things like that. Who's the one who's gonna be right? Not just the one talking to the board that he built that building, what about the other co-owners? And so these are big problems, and all these problems are solved and they're being stabilized in that law. Therefore, this law should then be directed and explicitly, I believe that until the second reading about it will be taken into account, so it will refer to the Property Act and other real rights. Because he's going all the way to each other and those who apply this law, and these are all the bodies of the administration that deal with these and the civil departments of our courts. And they will find themselves in a miracle that the law applies because they are equally important. Of course, that, too, is a fundamental law, but according to the legal rank is this even later, so will the question therefore be asked which norms apply? And that in no way should happen because it would lead to the great legal uncertainty of citizens who have been bringing litigation before the court for 10 and more years. So that someone would be rewarded with this kind of law enforcement. Therefore, it is very important to make sure that other citizens who have respected norms do no harm. Now something about these special provisions. I think he was a colleague of the CNS when he talked about article 22, but I think Chapter 5 would have to be kicked out mostly. Because the public notary will verify that, this law cannot be solved. It was settled by the Law on Public Literature. He attacks other laws but unnecessary. Whether or not a building will be transferred, but then all rights and obligations will be transferred from this law to the heirs. He cannot be touched by the Law on Inheritance, the Law on Public Note on the Office on Public Libraries or on the Law on Real Rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75533	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75534	Thank you very much. So I'm correcting the incorrect quote of colleague Marinovic when she said the state was inefficient. My colleagues are just passing and the bill shows that the state shows determination, efficiency, and ultimately will be effective. By legalizing all objects that have not had the necessary documentation so far, which is primarily what I'm talking about in the continental part of the fishing house, hunting houses, social homes, houses in individual stadiums that are not in large cities, we're going to draw a line with this law and definitely close the chapter of illegalisation and building objects without permits. But at the same time, I'm warning you, this hasn't been built back four and eight years. This was built in the former Yugoslav system when you know who else was in power, and you were a minister, and I'm surprised that from 2000 to 2003 you didn't remember that we should pass a law like this to solve the torments of people who really got into trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75535	Okay. And Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75536	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Antičević Marinović said a lot of incorrect things here, and let's just say that one of them was transferred power to issue documents for construction to municipalities and cities from the county, so it's not true, it's just big cities. But that's less important than this, that neighbour's rights and property rights are different from this law and that it doesn't refer to the Law of Property and other real rights. No, I don't. ownership rights will continue to be resolved in accordance with the Property Act and other real rights as a fundamental law governing ownership. And this law applies exclusively to the legality of construction in space, and it is said by this law if the neighbor objected and filed an application for illegal construction, then such a building will not be legalized under this law, but the inspection will be on the ground. So it's excluded from legalization if there's a neighbor's application. What can only be discussed in this law and what should be regulated is Article 22 and the ban on availability in relation to the Property Act and, of course, that goes to inheritance and indeed should be settled until the final text.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75537	Replica, Mr. Representative Ivo Škaričić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75538	I'd replicate it like this. I'm interested in Mrs. Antičević Marinović when you talk about local administration and self-government, so you say build-up. I claim that no one in this country from one of the mayors and mayors to any minister in the government can claim that some land will be built for him. You know that spatial plans are made every 10 years, let's say minimal. And they're the only ones who define what's building. And changes and additions if they are brought are not brought again so often. So there is no one in this country who can claim that something will be built, because it's from the city council and through the county office has to go on spatial planning to the ministry's consent. And the other thing that surprised me, too, so I don't know what you mean, you're talking about getting your property back. I understand that someone came to someone and told them if this came back it would be construction. First of all, you know that you were the Minister of Justice's case on the return of property. It has absolutely nothing to do with local self-government, nor does it have anything to do with this Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, but it has to do with this Department of Justice and one administrative procedure and ultimately the Administrative Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75539	... Unfortunately, it is not so often, so procedures are being misused. [[Speech is not enabled.]] And in neighboring municipalities it's well known. Similarly, it is not just here in our area, so that is the problem the Croatian Government is talking about, and that is the problem that the European Commission is talking about. After all, it is not only a problem in Croatia, the problem of space manipulation and space management is the most fertile soil for corruption, it is a fundamental problem. And the problem when we go back to this law itself, when some building comes up, the question arises, what did the inspectors do? Has anyone ever been responsible for that? So, the whole building was nickeled, and she didn't really move through the night. Even in Spain, when they became a bit of rigorous measures at night, people worked, then they built night divisions that then collapsed. Therefore, it is always a system of shared responsibility for how many irresponsible citizens but thus inefficient authorities that did not prevent it. But it can't even be repressive, because really, what a conjuncture it was, I'd say such shameless construction if it wasn't for the inspectors to oversee it. So the basic thing is that it was working in the past system and it continued later and later in Međimurje in Čakovec where this problem was not so widespread, and in some period it did not exist because plans were made in time for both public and private interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75540	Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75541	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. In the context of these days, I want to highlight two very important arguments that justify the adoption of this Law on the legalisation of illegal buildings. One of them is that all of the unlaxed buildings and as we know, about 150 thousand represent one huge dead capital. So they can't be the subject of real estate traffic. Such properties are practically worthless even when we enter the EU who would actually want to buy such illegally built houses or business spaces. Europe is looking for clean papers. The next argument for legalisation is that owners of illegally built agricultural facilities cannot use the funds of pre-accession European funds or to be quite precise, could not use the SAPARD funds, and now they cannot use IPARD funds. However, despite the existence of some other arguments in support of this law, there is still a need to point out that this law is primarily a very bad message to those who have respected and respected the laws in this country. In fact, the law slaps those who neatly for their facilities were the ones intended for housing, whether they were intended for economic activity resulting in all the necessary documentation, waste both time and nerve with inefficient bureaucracy, pay the costs of the documentation and then the enormous costs of the municipal and water contribution and ultimately the costs of the connection to the infrastructure. Furthermore, the question arises as to how the government will justify the passing of this law to those who, in the name of respecting the law, just a short time ago, have torn down houses, will they defile them or will only say my sin, my excessive sin. Will he just tell them they weren't lucky? It is obvious that the Croatian government is changing its position on this very important issue, depending on how the electoral wind blows and slightly collapses, so it is a little legalised. Most of the time, for Croatian citizens it creates legal uncertainty, creates inequality, discriminates against them in other words instead of ensuring the functioning of competent institutions, and above all inspection services. And what is most absurd now is that the state will reward itself for its own inefficiencies, i.e. for the inadequacy of its institutions, in a way that will take 75% of the amount of fines paid to itself while only 25% to local self-government units. I don't think the proposed distribution ratio is fair or acceptable, I think it should be the other way around, so a higher percentage should go to local self-government units because the state has landed exactly on municipalities and cities a huge job in which it is actually questionable that municipalities and cities will actually do the tasks of detecting illegally built buildings. Whether this will be in a way to go from house to house, to ask for building permits for all buildings built on one plot, whether to measure buildings, compare real conditions with those in documentation, which with buildings whose owners do not reside in the unit area of local self-government etc., etc. If even municipalities and cities have the authority to enter private properties and detect this illegal construction, whether they have professional staff for the job or they will again earn meters, architects and experts. Finally, whether the proposed 90-day deadline is long enough for that large but truly large and complex job. And speaking of a portion of the income from the penalties to be received by the units of local self-government, I must mention Article 21(2) which speaks of the obligation to spend on purpose those funds to improve the infrastructure according to the programme adopted by the representative body of the unit of local self-government. Since the representative body already has an obligation, therefore, a legal obligation to adopt a municipal infrastructure building programme each year according to the provisions of the Law on the municipal economy I ask Mr Ministers whether units of local self-government under this law will bring another programme of investment in municipal infrastructure or will be able to do so under this programme in accordance with the Law on the Communist Economy. In fact, it would be really rational to do it unitedly. And at the end of the debate, I propose, since it is the first reading, to consider the possibility to include a social component in the bill that would just be accepted to the fact that the law is passed at an economically extremely difficult moment. In fact, it would be good to ensure that the law clearly distinguishes those who built illegally because they did not simply have a choice, because they had to provide their families with a roof over their heads, and they did not have the means to settle all the prescribed duties. It is a completely different case that those who built huge buildings with dozens of apartments or other areas intended for profit acquisition because the group, therefore, the other group of investors not only significantly damaged the local community by devasting space, they were illegally carrying out economic activity in these facilities all these years also making significant revenues. Therefore, this social component should also be included among the criteria for determining the level of compensation, i.e. punishment, i.e. resulting in different heights and penalties for the retention of illegal buildings. Otherwise, the law will certainly please the rich, or it will go hand in hand with large capital. In one word, it would be good for this law to be done in a quality way so that this whole process of legalising illegal construction for all interested people would be as traumatic as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75542	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75543	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Jelash, right there, is one of the great problems of this law when I said in the replica that the law has its own for and against it. It is precisely a lack of criteria that does not distinguish an object for 20th, 30 apartments built on a location along the coast of the sea and, for example, in Slavonia an object for agriculture or a house in the area of special state care where man could not otherwise solve his living problem or build some garage, sheds, pigs, smokers as we say in Slavonia, cannot possibly be exactly the same thing as where he knowingly and intentionally begins to carry out some kind of tourist activity or some other went into building powerful apartments in raising the fourth, fifth floor etc. This lack of criteria is one of the main grudges of the law, and we all expect that reading some things will be much, much clearer by the second. We can therefore find the reason why this law should and I think we agree because 150 thousand illegal objects are certainly a large number to be legalized, but it is very important how this will be legal, at which prices. It simply cannot be the same price as those apartments and, for example, the addition of some shed or farm building to some barn, etc. This requires much clearer attitudes and clearer criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75544	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary with an associate. Of course this is a big problem when it's generated so much I would say a long period and 150 thousand people who not only had their own mistake to have illegally built objects and that in some ways the state and administration had been silently and tolerated certain things all these years while, of course, the line of less resistance was once a simpler choice and, of course, the people who built, who had to settle their problem somewhere in the war years. What is problematic and what would be good is that until the second reading of the law is even more specific, this law unfortunately does not make the difference between the one who made the house because he could live and live and because he was forced and the one who built the house, I would say the apartment, the big house on the border, even the maritime goods, regardless of what the law says will not legalize buildings that are within 70 meters to the sea except in case they are not used for permanent housing. Well, look, our people, our citizens are quite resourceful. I believe that all those houses that will be located within 70 meters of the sea, and they need to be legalized, we've seen many cases in the municipalities, now I won't say exactly which, but we've seen them on TV and on shows where the former minister was sending the baggers. There, after the people had received the announcements of this law, the lambs and the oxes were turning, celebrating. So every house will be for the apartment. There won't be any houses that won't be for the apartment. So people are resourceful, there are 4, 5 if they have 2, 3 houses so one will log into one house, the other into another, and eventually it will happen, and I'm almost sure there's very few houses that can't be legalized, and that they're in this belt 70 meters to the sea. And we have to make a clear distinction there, between what I would say the sociale for housing needs for some way where people had to get home by force, and it was often done on the continent with the exception of maybe these towns along Split down where, say, Kaštela had almost doubled on the basis of such construction, but there people came because they had to house somewhere and didn't go to build a house without permission to do business, to work tourism or to have a cottage so they could come on vacation. So there's no difference between those two cases. When the need for life is and when it is exclusively for the sake of luxury and profit. And that's not good because we're sending a message that there's a lot of things to do in the future, that in 10 or 20 years, there's going to be another government that's going to have to solve this problem and legalize illegally built objects. It also continues to say that they cannot be legalised except for those that are in terms of agricultural and family economies or national parks and nature parks that have been in the form of traditional settlements. I guarantee you that those houses that are modernized and built and upgraded on the Kornati are all going to be so-called. traditional settlements. And there won't be any sanctions for those again, and yet that's not the case where people were getting along, but there'll be a lot of money there after the house is legalized, the upgrade after it's legalized, that house will be sold by a million euros. So now we're helping people who have knowingly violated the law and who are going to come up with big money without having any fines at all or no large fines for these cases. No one mentions that even now construction facilities could be legalized without permission, so if they are in line with spatial plans, if they meet certain criteria with payment penalties, this could be done now and therefore, in particular, should be highlighted by these objects which I would say be legalized, which are exclusively there for the sake of luxury, profit and which will in some way help those who have, who have in some way invested illegally earn great money. And we have to do until the second reading of the law a distinction from those who did it to sort of have a place to live. The question also arises why until November 30, 2009? I don't see the difference between 30 November 2009 and 30 November 2010 unless it's a geobot issue, or this satellite photo shoot. And look, if we solve the problem by 2009, I don't see that it's too much of a state effort, it's too much of a problem to single out certain funds and take another photo. Let's get a new video and then let's give it to the people who, which is why we put the line right on the 2009 line? I believe that's why there are recordings of that date. But if that date is flexible, I think it's an injustice for people who may have done upgrades, construction or something in 2010 so that they can't, if we're already passing that law, legalize their facilities. I absolutely think that date could move then because there's no reason not to. And finally, it's an absolutely bad message when it's done at the end of the term because a message is being sent through the media, and we had a similar one in the last campaign when the campaign itself went through public shareholders' actions, shares of HT were shared. So, these situations are not solved because of the elections, which unfortunately HDZ cannot understand but these situations need to be resolved to help citizens and society to better the situation tomorrow and never to repeat it again. And no, we've had, and here, for example, 4 or 8 years of threat of destruction, for example in Rogoznica, so many houses. Some of them are down, and now we're going to legalize everything. And now these people over there should be grateful that someone made it possible for them. And this is used exclusively in a pre-election campaign. It's not a good message because people could figure it out the way here in the election year maybe they could build something. When elections are made it'll be easier to legalize these things. So this is one situation that must never be repeated again in the future, but HDZ I say never learns it from its past mistakes but from the campaign of some precedents for error and sends false messages to society and Croatian citizens. So here, I hope that by the second reading we will have a way of making a difference between objects that are for housing and those that are not for housing. To make a difference between the objects that people would say I would use for my business. Let's just say why we forgot to legalize the facilities that are for industry, for production. Which is why it's not in there. There are certain objects built without a building permit, and they are used as production halls. Which is why there are no laws to legalise these objects when we have an apartment that serves as a tourist activity we will be able to legalise it, and when we have production we will not be able to legalize it. And that kind of thing should be classified until the second reading of the law, because I absolutely think it's as important as someone's house, for someone else's, but it can be for a job where it works and such production halls should be put into this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75546	Thank you. Two corrections, one replica. First correction by Mrs. Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75547	Here, Mr. Maras, you said no one would mention that so far it could be legalized. Well exactly, it hasn't been mentioned all day today that's exactly why no more objects were legalized is a high price. Exactly the opposite of what you're talking about. Otherwise, you're in your own collegiate when you say HDZ doesn't understand anything. The HDZ proposes this law together with its partners and has just guaranteed 2009 and ended the orthophoto shoot. And you're offering them 2010 and then I'm going to do it like that later. It is you who are offering something that could be solved in the pre-election year which is not the case here because it is a guarantee that by 2012, it means during the second new government, and I believe again HDZ will be able to solve these problems. I also think you're in college when you talk about how apartments can be legalized without being able to Halle. That is not said in that way, and I believe that the minister will say it later in an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75548	Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75549	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, he only works for the public so she doesn't go wrong about this law. So, colleague Maras says this law doesn't mention industrial buildings. This law mentions all the buildings built by the date of 30.11.2009 regardless of purpose, and you have probably also read only what concerns the exception, which is legalisation outside the construction area within 70 meters which then speaks of the purpose of the building and the need for proof of housing for the residential and family economies in that belt and agricultural. So this law speaks of all buildings, and then so does those industrial ones that you mention are not in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75550	Replica Mr. Agent Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75551	Thank you. Dear colleague Maras, you mentioned the date of November 30, 2009 and asked why no new video was taken because some things would have changed since then. So here's the thing about this bill, so that date is kind of a set. However, in the area of definition of building construction, it is said, therefore, that all construction works have been completed, etc. And it is already said in Article 2(3) that, exceptionally from paragraph 2 of this Article, illegal buildings are represented if they are in force until the date of entry into force of this Act, which means we are now in the first reading. We have another reading, an announcement, etc. Therefore, at least all rough constructive construction works with or without roofing etc. have been carried out. So, even in this area it can still be built, still because the orthophoto video could only have recorded the foundations or in the lower category of building certain objects. So there's still space. I believe that thanks to what you've said to our people's resourcefulness, there will be even so many shops and until the very day of the law's publication and the 8 days since the announcement of how normally it takes to bring the law into force. So you can see that the proposer took care of this, too, to say so. But all of this is subject to the need for an additional amendment of this law. So, it's good that it's in the first reading, that there's something else that can be done by the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75552	Thank you. I would now interrupt the session with your permission and resume tomorrow at 9:30. The first is Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75553	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We'll get back to work. But the way we're here, so we'll do it again later, at 12, there'll be a vote, I call on the club leaders to ensure the presence of their members. And now we're continuing to dot the agenda that broke yesterday, and that's the bill on dealing with illegal buildings. This is the first reading, as you know, and we have an individual discussion. The first is Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75554	Thank you, Mr. President. So here is the proposal for a Law on the Treatment of Illegal Buildings, which proposes legalisation of illegally built buildings, which according to some estimates we hear in Croatia have at least 150 thousand. Legalisation of buildings built by 2009 is proposed, and that means when the process of aerographic recording of the entire territory is completed in Croatia. As evidence, a digital orthophoto map of the State Geodetic Administration should certainly be used, as well as documentation of construction inspections. What is certainly positive in the very beginning, and why this law should be supported, because this is the first time that it is trying to solve the decades-long problem we have in the Republic of Croatia, is that by legalising the owners of illegal objects, it enables the same rights to an appropriate standard of living, as well as access to services that other residents have. So how important is it to say that those who will be able to legalize it and achieve a proper standard of living and access to services, as well as other residents, will give an example of where I come from Vrgorec, where we have a large field that is being processed by 99%, is called the Lake, where we have 9 million cane vines, and where people have practically illegal all objects, start from these residentials to economic ones, and can't come to credit precisely because they can't have a mortgage or give a guarantee of something. So the moment we let them legalize, which everyone looks forward to, we'll give a boost to the further development of agriculture in that area. So let's see how much it's tied together, so it's not just what it is here. We're going to legalize it. Except for the objects without, as we like to say the paper is whether, the disputers are certainly held by those who are illegally reconstructed. The decision on the state of the illegal building will be made by local self-government and regional administration, and those who wish to legalise the facility in the request will have to attach a geodetic elaborate certified by the competent cadastrian office, three copies of the architectural recording ratio 1:100, 1:50, and at least four photographs of which the object as such shows. Citizens will also have to submit a declaration of compliance with the conditions for the use of the building, primarily in order to calculate compensation for the retention of an illegal building in space. It is also possible for this bill to include the party in the proceedings as the owner of the property, which borders with an illegal object that is legalised clearly. It will only be possible, however, if the neighbour submits a report to a construction inspection, however, there is a possible abuse, or has filed an action earlier that protects property or other rights. I would therefore like to advocate that this remains the property of a court case that needs to be resolved. The specific question which is part of the proposal, which speaks of compensation fees, since, apart from the municipal and water contribution, the calculation will depend on the Government's regulation, which will specify the exact criteria and the value of points and coefficients for assessing the impact of the facility on space. All those who intend to legalise their building, 30 days after making a solution, must pay a fee, unless they have so requested, unless they have requested a payment in a way that the first war must be at least 30% of the total fee, paid within 8 days. It is clear that this part relating to the payment of the total amount within two years does not apply to socially endangered citizens. Otherwise, when it comes to this problem, the data on which about half of the buildings are not even recorded in the cataster, or in the register of utility companies, means communals, means in fact that there is a lot of money lost on these issues, I am naked with one money, which should now be returned to the budgets. The money that would return to the budgets would be shared between local self-government, so the unit of local self-government, which should spend it on improving the infrastructure of the settlement, and on the other side of the state that should use it to establish a real estate cadastra, which is very important, then energy efficiency of buildings, and the recovery of areas that are not covered by this recovery. The programmes will have to be implemented by the end of 2012. When deciding of crucial importance, it will be a comparison of the real state of the facility with the state of the video, and whether it meets the spatial plan as well as the mandatory condition that the building, the building particle has access to the street and that there is a possibility of joining the water supply and the power supply network. Any complaints may be filed to the Administrative Court. What is certainly positive, and remains from before, is that, apart from the facilities in the protected coastal area, if it is not permanent housing facilities or agricultural and family holdings, it will not be possible to legalise facilities on the public surface, on marine good, public water goods, and those built from those materials that are not safe, lasting for use. Legislative and settlement of land books is a prerequisite for development, and this is evidenced by data from units of local self-government that have done these jobs. In fact, the budgets of these units have increased, the number of property transactions has been reduced, investments are faster and simpler. From this we can clearly conclude how much we will get and what we will get from this legalization. Without legalisation and research of land books, the OIB system will also not function in the right sense, without listing the assets to be made by the mayors and mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb will not function in the right sense or tax reform. And that in terms of the introduction of a property tax can neither be a quality reform of all social transfers. For these reasons, I will personally support this proposal of the law, especially in this final part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75555	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75556	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to start to argue first about this law of his, it's called the Law of Protection on dealing with illegal buildings, and believe me, it took me a couple of times to read the name of this law to remember it as most of you because we all call it the Law on Legalization of Unlawful Construction, both in the public and in the media, and I'm sure that, regardless of its name, it will be treated so officially with both citizens and in the public that it is the Law on Legalization of Unlawful Construction because de facto it comes down to it. But I'm not going to go into the reasons why it's called otherwise, but let's be aware that we have a law that we're passing that no one will know its name because everyone is going to call it the law on the legalization of illegal construction that it basically is. I must say immediately that I support this legislative initiative and finally, and it is good that this difficult problem and the big one that we have in Croatia is trying in a good legal way to solve it. So, I support the initiative to go through with this, but not all the solutions offered by the law. When I say this is a big problem, we are all aware that this is not a problem... this time, these years, but it has been a phenomenon for the past few decades intensely, especially in cities and coastal areas, especially has been intensified, 60, 70, 80 years and lasted to this day. However, he precisely because of his developmental path that our illegal construction I would say had two periods. One was by the 1990s when mostly illegal construction led to individual construction of houses either for a holiday or for a holiday, but after 90, construction on a profitable basis, so building buildings, large buildings that are also illegal, which is much worse. And right away, I'm not personally about to have the same way toward each other. It does not need to be treated equally by those who built a roof over their heads, to whom they should be broad arms, lenient if they can say so from the one who built to make a profit in order to sell to others. And that, especially for the last 20 years, has been a lot, this other one. This problem, therefore, of illegal construction has several dimensions, one is urban. And that in two aspects, what consequences it leaves in Croatia if we legalise, in terms of urbanism and other things that we will do with this Law that no further devastation of space is happening. This law does not solve enough, and I think that this law or some other law should in any case ensure such mechanisms that what has not been good so far does not continue further, to preserve in an urban sense further devastation of space. Secondly, the Law also has its social dimension about it. I just said something about it. Therefore, it should be treated differently that they did their own housing because they could not solve their housing issue in another way, and otherwise those who did it to profit and earn. And of course we should observe this Law from the point of view of righteousness, therefore, one who has not been in any way in a different or worse legal position in terms of righteousness, who has respected everything in relation to one who has not respected any rules and paid nothing and is now somehow rewarded, this Law must not be a reward for breaking the law but must be sanctioned accordingly. In this respect, and from the point of view of justice, he should be considered not to be allowed, but when sanctioned without consequences. What I must say is true because of this law being such an important law that solves such an important area, such an important problem in Croatia that has been going on for decades now comes to the agenda in the Assembly and no matter how much anyone interprets but difficult... at least as far as I can see in public that it is not interpreted in advance of elections because this problem does not exist since summer or spring but has existed for years. It was seen that the solutions they now have were not good enough and efficient enough and I am truly sorry that this Law had not come before on the agenda to lose in some way an attribute that was made for pre-election purposes. Because it is a serious law and God does not allow it to be done because such serious topics and problems are not allowed to go because of pre-election games. So, the law should in any case be passed, it is necessary to ensure that the legalisation of what needs to be legalised is carried out, but I say make sure that not to legalise and everything that is urbanally available in a caradic way is primarily intended for profit, profit, etc. What was done for our own needs here can be a little more permissive. Furthermore, what to do with this law is not to send a message, so far there have been problems, a lot of things have been done illegal, but it will be remedied and now a message from not to get away with it and now continue to work lawlessly, so again some other law will legalize it. It is a message that this Law must not be sent, it must resuscitate the existing state and point but rigorously prevent further illegal construction from happening. So the need for the state is, of course, co-responsible that this was happening, because if the inspection had done its job in good time and every year, this illegal construction would not have had this kind of proportion. Of course, spatial plans, detailed plans, urban plans for municipalities and cities were brought in in due time, too, would not be much because people would not be so corrupt as to go on purpose beyond the rules. But when there were no rules then they did what they wanted, and then they formed settlements which we in Zagreb unfortunately have very much, from St. Klare, Kozari Roads, Kozari Boka, Lower Dubrave where they are made, where the streets are between 2.5 and 3 meters and there is nothing more to be done and of course there are conditions for all of this to be legalized because these objects have not been destroyed, nor will they be torn down nor should they be destroyed, regardless of what in the urban sense is not quite well done. But unfortunately... I'm saying because both state and local self-government haven't dealt with it in a timely manner. What I would like is that it is no longer possible, and in such a way as to commit that the inspection must do its own reports, regardless of what it is at the state level, to submit to local self-government units that each year must be analysed in every municipality in every county in the state of the state of lawless construction, that all individual facilities that have started illegally must be listed, etc. So it's more traffic-related and it's really taking care of it, not letting that happen again, that's what it wants, if the inspection it sees, if it doesn't see, let it be based on what someone will possibly report. That's not enough. Because I'm saying if this law doesn't secure those solutions we're going to resuscitate now but give a message that you can still do illegal construction, and that's not good. So, you need to ensure the mechanisms that this can no longer happen. So the problem is not with objects that are in line with spatial plans, but with those that are not in line with spatial plans. The law, however, lays down certain restrictions, of course, that objects which are in certain areas intended for transport, for municipal infrastructure, public content, etc. cannot be legalised. Which, of course, is fine. However, there is a question here whether any object should be legalised, and it can be catastrophic in urban terms. Whether or not we're going to legalize some object I don't know of 10 floors which is 50 meters from the sea and which in urban terms is a truly catastrophic solution. I don't think there are enough clearly developed criteria here in the law to prevent any legalisation of anything that kind of cracks what's in the eye in the urban sense. There is also no limit in the law whether all objects will be legalized whether objects built on 90% of the surface or only those on a slightly smaller scale will be legalized. So there's no legal solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75557	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75558	Thank you. That's what I'm gonna end up with. And one more thing. So, however, it is also proposed as so far to change... when it comes to the fee of directing it that most of the compensation goes to the units of local self-government, because the units of local self-government will also have the highest costs resulting from this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75559	Thank you. We have one replica of Mr. Agent Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75560	My colleague Jelusic, I think you spoke clearly about the problem of the lawlessly built... However, one of your personal experiences, you were in the city in a position in which in a certain way you could participate in the absence of so much illegal construction. I'm not telling you in terms of criticism right now, but I'm asking you a question and you've faced that phenomenon yourself because that phenomenon has arisen and in your time, you've found it, it's created in your time. So at the level of a local community, how did one local community struggle in relation to the state level we see an attempt from the level of government and the legislator to set up certain things, which are those opportunities that we can expect in advance, because you yourself said that it could be expected to continue with this? What are these problems that have prevented you from successfully resisting this because there is a particularly pronounced phenomenon in Zagreb even on other people's land, because as we have seen colleague Dropulić say practically in the unity of the terrain of land and building, in fact the owner of the land has the right to ownership and the building itself, regardless of what he did not work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75561	Answer Mr. Representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75562	Thank you. Well, I don't think we have much controversy or disagreement. Of course I said in my statement that the state was also responsible because it was in her hands inspection. But the units of local self-government that are one "little part" for that merit, responsible for not making appropriate spatial plans in due time, be careful. It's 30 years ago for St. John's Day. Klara was brought in some urban plans and certain road corridors, etc. People would mostly stick with that, unfortunately they're not. But it was all done a long time ago. And what was done a long time ago can't be shared but I so far... that the state's inspection strengthens, units of local self-government that exactly by their decisions, their plans allow to introduce order in planning, that no longer happens. But by coordinating both states and inspections, it must be dealt with. And of course what I said about it should be discussed at the councils and local self-government assemblies on the work of the inspection, regardless of what is on the state, to see exactly what she's doing what she's not doing to get the pressure on the inspection so as not to re-emerge the devastation of space.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75563	Thank you. And it's Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75564	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The illegal construction is certainly a major Croatian problem, it was conceived 50 years ago with a very steep trend of growth especially after the end of the Homeland War. A serious fight against this phenomenon of the Croatian state of society began in 2004 with a more intense set of activities in the legislative and operational area and significantly opposed this lawlessness. The struggle was so much more complicated that the illegal construction took the status of illegality with legitimacy, so there was a certain phenomenon in society that got its right to exist even though we knew it was completely out of the law. So almost fully accepted phenomena in society even though they all saw how deviating and tolerated behavior is causing damage to the future of the Republic of Croatia in every problem. This problem I am 40 years old, and I have a great literature in this regard, not only of Croatian experience but also of the world. And that's why I would read you a text that I wrote 10 years ago was published in Free Dalmatia within my column that was going out, it was called "What would I do" because I was asking myself what I was doing some things that might not be my problem. So I would read you this text as a comment on the situation because only the question of laws and norms being asked in the law is the desire to solve the problem, but I don't believe in a solution to the problem. Opening an opportunity, but not a solution to the problem. So that text reads like this, it was published in the second book "What would we do" for another year, in some normal circumstances illegal construction would not be normal but if it's normal it means that circumstances are not normal. It looks like a game of words, and in fact it's a game with people, normal people, and under such qualifications should mean all those people who respect the laws of Croatia adopted in the Assembly for the greater good. So they're all not normal but they turn out to be smarter. In any case, they're special because for them, it's as if they don't apply the rules of the game mandatory to all other mortals of the common rule of law. They can do what they shouldn't, so it turns out they're laughing at what they can't. Actually, illegal construction isn't allowed, but it's allowed. Since there are no permits for illegal construction, it's logical that lawless builders don't look for them, like that story that tells about the stupid fact that the sun shines on the day when it's seen instead of the night when it's dark. However, there is a possibility of logical interpretation, perhaps bright at night, but it's dark, so it can't be seen. And there seems to be a lot of darkness in us, so there's not much in it. For example. why they deviate from the law in relation to urban and construction law is not sanctioned in court as is the case with all other criminal and criminal offences, but according to the minister's decision. If he's the criminal body that's destroying the lawless construction, who's the authority that's stopping her? It may be in that darkness that this illegal construction and it does not see, so only those houses that suddenly lit up some lightning, especially if followed by a strong thunderstorm. For example, since, meanwhile, in a wild hotel of a pietog island town, it is a concrete place and a concrete object, the dark is welcome for tourists to be able to enjoy a peaceful sleep and rest. But for what is seen in the day there are no problems, all of these will be legalized by the people through their elected representatives in the legislative, executive and judicial bodies. This will even be passed by the Law on Rehabilitation of Irregular Construction because the minister obviously thinks that if spatial plans are legalized under quotes, anything that can be legalized that future wild construction will no longer be. If it's not naive at least it's funny to tears, but the tears of those whose objects will collapse it by what criteria they couldn't fit, legalize it. Thus, under quotes two years old project on the law of wild construction of Sirobje in Split is also updated to serve as an example to legalise the rest of Split's wildly built urban areas. What are these city spaces for, you can imagine, but the new GUPs are mostly for these purposes and they serve. That the illegal construction of goods would not be called wild, but that they do not consider it harmful to show cases of the mayor of three Croatian cities, which should then be 10 years ago, 9, 10 years ago, which should be an example for example. The mayor of Zagreb is being built a house without even asking for a building permit. The mayor of Osijek is also the president of the Assembly Committee on Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning to realize wild construction in the Kornati National Park. Of course, everything will be regulated by a new spatial plan, and some future wild construction will be relegated by some later plan. And the mayor of Split advocates a postponement of sanctions for notoriety of construction in the city center because the damage is to tear down the building. But there's no greater damage than anarchy in society, than riots, and unequal rights for all citizens. I know a lot of investors who didn't build even though by nature things could because they didn't have permission. The government, county and city heads should be committed to preventing illegal construction, not legalising it. And one of the ways is that building plans and the quick process of leaving permits allows for building everywhere where logically possible instead of subsequently legalising it in those same places. Something rotted in the land of Denmark. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75565	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75566	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. After this poetic telling of fellow Roshin, it is not easy to speak or cross, but I will go to prose. In any case, the fact is that illegal construction is a specific instrument and that it's a phenomenon that there's even this institute. There are many reasons. One of the key reasons why our people often do not exist is that no awareness of compliance is developed. Also disrespect or lack of a culture of space and also disrespect for the culture of construction. However, we must also say that there were often no conditions and there were no plans according to which it could be built. I agree that the state is obliged to solve this big problem and here's the state trying to solve it for the third time, as far as I can tell since '68. A year. I agree that what can be legalized is legalized, but I don't agree with those who were here yesterday saying that high fines should be paid, regardless of what we know to be a criminal liability. However, because of these high sentences last legalisation failed in the way it was imagined. You were talking about the rules of the game, Mr. Roshin. They weren't always there, and you have to admit it. Here's an example, in the Dubrovnik Nuncijat settlement, it's a settlement above the Gružje which was created at the time of Babin's hip was built in the 1970s. The workers came, the builders in Dubrovnik, had nowhere to live. They started in some barracks, and they slightly entered these facilities, settled in Dubrovnik, and became prominent residents of our city, allowing them to legalize these facilities. Some are still waiting, so hopefully this law will help them do it. So it wasn't always that simple, it wasn't always the conditions. Of course, the law of something that has been done against the law is absurd, paradoxical, conflicting in its own terms. It's not easy because it's as lifelike as you said yesterday, Mr. Secretary. I think this is the time to try to make the most of it, and this law is a good course of action. Of course, until the second reading, I believe there will be more changes. And I agree that what will not be legalized should be destroyed. But you entered into this bill by the law of a good institute that what is not legal and which will not be legal cannot be the subject of inheritance. I think it's a good institute. It also won't be possible to be in legal traffic, that it won't be able to be connected to the infrastructure. I think it's already enough fuse that it won't be as legalized as it's supposed to be. As far as these provisions in Article 5 are concerned, I have one proposal and one remark, or perhaps you will give it to me in your final explanation. It's about historical building blocks listed in the World Heritage List. I'm not sure if this is accurate enough, so I'd like to ask you to consider this until the second reading, which is the historic building block listed in the World Heritage List. In particular, it is an old city core of Dubrovnik, but with contact areas. Are these contact zones and can happen that in Dubrovnik contact areas, objects that are built opposite to GUP, spatial plan, etc. are legalized. So I'd like to ask you to explain this a little bit or to make this a little bit more specific. It is not only about Dubrovnik, but also about other historical units in Croatia that we know there are more, which are listed in the World Heritage List. Is that just referring to those who are enrolled. We only have seven localities. There may be others in Croatia that should be protected in this way and are not on UNESCO's list. Anyway, I don't intend to take any longer. We heard all this yesterday. I suggest and accept what our club said, Ms. Marina Dropulic, that the fee is 50%, 50% divided, and the cities definitely don't have enough money to fix the infrastructure. And I think it would be realistic and correct to split the costs. This is a good proposal, and I ask that we think about it until the second reading and that all those who worked on other people's land cannot legalise an object until they resolve property-legal relations. I accept everything else and welcome the adoption of this law. And that's what I heard on the field, both from the mayor and the mayor. Everyone welcomes it, because they want to solve the problems with space on their ground, regardless of what I know the waist has doubts, I am aware of that, but I think this is a good time for this to finally be resolved and to settle the situation in the area throughout Croatia and especially on the coast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75567	Thank you. We have a first replica of Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75568	Thank you, Mr. President. The replica refers to the spatial planning that the colleague said. In fact, I said myself that the problem is 50 years old that this society is facing with illegal construction. And illegal construction is a very layered problem and only a layer of can be solved is my judgment, layered because it's manifested in a lot of things. I'm not going to waste my time reading it now. If there's a chance, I'd also like to tell you what all these areas are. I'll go to the first point I put in, and the one you mentioned wasn't the planning file. It is true that there was no plan documentation and that the lack of the planning documentation might have been an incentive for some to work on their own. But if there's no cashier in the store I'm not going to go out with the goods from the store anyway, take it, I have no right to do that. However, it is very important to emphasise because, in the extreme case, this has been the result of our government, our control of space and the legislative framework that these non-existent plans have been made three times as many plans lately. And there isn't really a single unit of local self-government, not a single county that's not covered by a plan. So, if it's an excuse for illegal construction, I'm making an excuse, not a reason for not having any spatial plans for a long time, that excuse doesn't have its strength. But spatial plans are very important to open space for orderly work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75569	Thank you. Mrs. Shuica's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75570	... One reason why there's no awareness of respect for the law. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Only one of the reasons and the other is fundamental. The other is the lack of plans. I'm not advocating that it's being built illegally. But you have to admit that life also writes novels and that people simply needed a roof over their heads, and in the inability to get an apartment, apartment rights, etc. I'm talking about that old system. Now, I'm convinced, we don't have statistics and I'm sorry we don't have statistics on this. I'm convinced that after all the plans were made, because all units of local administration and self-government had come up with plans in the last five, six, seven years. I'm convinced that now it's important to reduce this construction. And I am convinced after entering the Penal Code of Criminal Provisions for Unlawful Construction that it has been reduced. And it's a shame we don't have that statistic, so that's how we deny what you're talking about. So, there were opportunities that conditioned it. Today, I'm sure no one would dare to illegally build in the existence of plans and detailed documentation. We didn't get any statistics, Mr. Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75571	Thank you. Mrs. Tatjana's correction, Shimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75572	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Shuica, I agree with you that the state is obliged to resolve it, but I also feel that the state was obliged to resolve it, that is to enforce the laws and to avoid such a situation. In fact, you mentioned now the awareness of respect for the law. I do not understand how such awareness will actually increase after this Law, or whether there will be awareness, since there is a wide range of illegal constructions both in size and in purpose. You mentioned Nuncijat. I'd also like to solve this problem, but I'm not sure it's going to be solved in view of that article 12 that I mentioned yesterday in paragraph 3 where the consent of the neighbor who reported it would be necessary. I'm not sure it means she'll get rid of it like you said in your presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75573	Thank you. In conclusion, on this agenda point, Minister Branko Bacic, on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75574	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So here at the end of this two-day debate on the Law on dealing with illegal buildings, I would certainly like to thank everyone who participated in the debate and representatives of clubs and committees and all MPs and MPs, and I believe that we will include a significant part of the proposal and suggestions in the draft law for a second reading. What I can finally conclude is that we are aware that illegal construction has been in these areas for many years and that despite the existence of legal documentation that defines urbanism, which defines the conduct in space, for a long time this illegal construction has been around us and we have not acted in a timely manner as a state, in order to effectively prevent this illegal construction. We must say that often the state and units of local self-government were illegal builders, and we must also be aware of that, and today I am sure that in Croatia, and we will know very quickly, there is a large number of schools, and kindergartens, and homes of culture, and roads, and water supply systems, and discharge systems that are also illegal, and the state has appeared many times as an illegal builder, and many institutions etc., etc. So this problem is big and what for the Republic of Croatia this problem represents, it is certainly a large immobilised asset that is not in the function of economic development. We can remain on the existing solution, which is to leave that through the implementation of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Local Self-Government Unit through the change of spatial-planning teaching documentation with the law of buildings through the change of their spatial plans. For a long, long, long time, however, the problem that will burden many people with whom this illegal construction is a problem for them to solve other life’s demands and other life - related problems in life. For example, this was the case when it comes to family economies, farms, housing buildings, etc., etc. I know that often our eyes are clouded by the fact that through this law we may be approaching, or we allow someone whose illegal construction was not a fundamental question of life, but a part of the acquisition of good, that often it prevents us from doing so in a certain way, and we are aware of that. However, the fact that such a large number of illegal constructions in Croatia must be resolved in the first place by respecting those settings that are going towards a better, better quality protection of space in the Republic of Croatia. I said somewhere that illegal construction is like a serious disease, which is easier to diagnose than to find the right cure to prevent and when we find it, when we think we found it like this law then we can, we're not sure if this disease, that illegal construction will continue to progress. I think that with what the state through the collection of fees for the retention of these facilities in the premises will certainly make a significant contribution to suspending illegal construction, which is that through this fee we can provide funds for an accelerated cadastrian measurement, and which will be the basis for the construction of a cadastrian operator and a land book, and that systematic settlement of property relations will help reduce and I would say even more about stopping illegal construction in the Republic of Croatia. In conclusion, I thank almost all the clubs that supported this proposal, and it is clear that we will try to find an even better and better solution in the light of the legalization of the facilities in the Republic of Croatia as the most important economic resource. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-16-0.u75575	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide the first reading, probably today. We move on to the bill on dealing with illegal buildings, first reading, P.Z. Number 830. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a Law on the Treatment of Illegal Buildings and 2. All comments and proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Let's please get involved and vote on the conclusion. The result? This conclusion was accepted by the majority of 97 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 1 against.
