ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75656	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. So, on 5 May 2011, Decision No. 11/2011 of the Stabilisation and Association Council between the European Union and Croatia amending and supplementing Protocol 4 to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Croatia, of the other part, as regards the definition of concepts, products originating in and manner of administrative cooperation. Before the adoption of this Stabilisation and Association Council Decision in Croatia, the procedure was carried out in accordance with the Law implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which prescribes and provides for the prior approval of the Croatian Parliament. I remind you, at its 22nd session, the Croatian Parliament reached a unanimous conclusion that adopted this proposal for a decision. After the prescribed procedure, Croatia adopted the decision and formally expressed its readiness to be bound by its provisions. This Decision in fact amends and complements Protocol 4 to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in the section relating to cumulation in the European Union and Croatia, which will allow Croatia to be included in the so-called The SAP system of diagonal cumulation of origin involving the European Union, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Macedonia, Serbia and Turkey. The inclusion of Croatia in the SAP system of diagonal cumulation protects the interests of Croatian businessmen, i.e. enhances their competitiveness especially in the part of the textile, leather, training and metal industry. By including in this system, Croatian producers are allowed to install in their products and materials from other countries that are in this system, and thus to export the products obtained as Croatian products to third countries using all the commercial advantages contained in free trade contracts based solely on the origin of the goods. This means opening up the possibility of exports of the products of Croatian origin and to the European Union market, which so far has not been possible, and which is why Croatian producers in particular in these branches have actually been cut off in that part of the competitive cost advantage. So, the cost of the products that they implanted in, in the cost of the raw materials they implanted in their product. Also through the inclusion of Croatia in the SAP system of diagonal cumulation, the competitiveness of companies running distribution warehouses in Croatia and covering business throughout the region is enhanced. In fact, many European companies have placed their distribution warehouses right in Croatia, and we also allow these companies to sell and distribute goods of European origin in the countries of the region with ease of procedures. So, along with the EUR1 replacement certificates, they also acquire the right to preferential trading conditions contained in free trade contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, the Croatian economy, Croatian businessmen are extremely interested in Croatia's integration into this system of cumulation of origin as soon as possible in order to equate in terms of business with the conditions of business of other countries in the region. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the adoption of this Act in order to make the provision of this Decision part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, thus improving the level of competitiveness of our shareholders and our companies and also facilitating their business in the markets of countries that are traditionally our most significant trading partners. So, the European Union and countries in the region Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Macedonia, Serbia and Turkey. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75657	Thank you. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club Mr Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75658	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates and associates, honored ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, this Law should certainly be supported because the fact is that it will make business easier for Croatian economies, producers and certainly needs to do so as soon as possible. Products originating are a kind of brand of a country or region because since the end of the 19th century, and probably significantly earlier, perhaps 3,000 years before today, when from... exported tin, in the light of the Bronze Age, the geographical origin was a certain guarantee of quality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, different legal origins, systems protect origin, the names of products coming from a country or region, in order to prevent the sale and replacement of products under that name. While such rules are granted to producers of certain products by a kind of monopoly on the use of the name of the region or country, such use is considered to have an excuse to ensure a high level of product quality, and thus also to protect consumers. And the fact is that those rare Croatian exporters who have succeeded in the international market are therefore extremely interested in this component because the brand, the Croatian brand, brings them a certain market advantage. In addition, this also applies to the negotiating chapters of intellectual property and the negotiating chapter 1 of the free movement of goods. So in the broader context of quality infrastructure. It should also be pointed out that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has also developed brands related to the quality of Croatian products, original Croatian and Croatian quality, while the State Institute for Intellectual Property takes care of geographical indications and designations of origin. And given that the quality infrastructure is connected in a certain way with, and with this law, that is, this law would be unimaginable without functional quality infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia, it is an opportunity to say something about the situation in the Republic of Croatia, which is not bad, the negotiating chapter 1 is closed, relatively painless and fast, even to the surprise of certain both economics and certain government officials. Why is that? Simply because politics did not get too involved in this area, it left experts, experts, engineers and scientists, businessmen, quality experts and the consequent system quite well arranged, and we Assembly representatives have not intervened much in these laws in the area since the first set of laws was adopted in 2003, which were established by the former State Department for Standardisation and Measurement of a private institution, i.e. Croatian Accreditation Agency, National Bureau of Measurement, Croatian Measurement Institute, then Croatian Institute for Standards, and State Institute for Intellectual Property. However, due to the funding model that I'm partly assuming is caused by this crisis, the economic and financial crisis which is still shaking our country with full intensity, due to the model of financing by the Croatian Accreditation Agency, the respected Mr. Secretary of State, it is facing a financial collapse. Namely, as a new job is taken, for which owners pay neatly, whether it is the test laboratories, certification houses, inspection organisations, they pay neatly for their accreditation services carried out by the Croatian accreditation agency, however, it goes to the state treasury, fills the state budget, and there is nothing to pay the experts and assessors who carry out the procedure and examine, assesses the competences, skills and skills of these organisations that have accessed accreditation. One of the slightly undetected indicators of the mild recovery of the Croatian economy, especially the one aimed at export, is a steady increase in the number of accredited bodies, which has been growing exponentially since the moment of the establishment of accreditation in the Republic of Croatia, so that it currently has about 250 accredited organisations, i.e. bodies to assess compliance in the Republic of Croatia, and the trend is still exponential and the only problem is that the accreditation agency is now reluctant to accept new jobs, difficult with the old and the supervisions, simply because there is no place to pay services, the external services of its assessors. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, it would be paradoxical for the Croatian accreditation agency to have several hundred on its permanent payroll, and even a thousand assessors, because they have nothing to do there full-time, and therefore there are institutions such as universities, institutes, professional organisations, laboratories, universities where experts in individual fields work and which give their expertise, knowledge, skills to the Croatian economy through quality infrastructure, i.e. Croatian accreditation agency. We can be proud in the Republic of Croatia that this system works well. That we even got a request from our neighbouring Republic of Slovenia who failed to introduce all accreditation schemes, such as the Republic of Croatia, so they're asking us for help, I mean us in the Republic of Slovenia, for accreditation of medical laboratories in some of their hospitals. But at the moment of taking this job it is a direct loss for the Croatian Accreditation Agency, a financial sink, the truth God budget is being filled, but the question will be raised at the time and in the state audit of the Management Board of the Croatian Accreditation Agency, so people what are you doing, how did you, why did you let the agency go to waste? The question is also whether it will reflect on the monitoring of Chapter 1, because as we have heard negotiations on full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the Union have been completed, but it remains certain that certain forms of monitoring will still be carried out over the Republic of Croatia. And if there is a breakdown of the quality infrastructure of the Croatian accreditation agency as the headquarters of the negotiating chapter 1 issue is whether it will reopen. And there is an urgent need to do something to ensure that a system that works well on the honour and discipline of all of Croatia, including the region, does not collapse, but continues to function. Here they are finally solved, at least seemingly solved problems with the Croatian Measurement Institute, which for 2 years did not work despite the government's decision, and it was based on the traceability of moderate levels and reference substances, and here is the solution. But it's like a ship that's sinking opens up new problems and holes. And we urge Mr. Secretary of State to try to sort it out somehow because the Croatian accreditation agency lacks between a million and a half kuna for normal work by the end of the year, and that money would not go out of the budget but simply return to the budget through the increased volume of work and normal functioning and the obligations that arise. In addition, Croatia's accreditation agency is under-capacitated because of the increased volume of work, but cannot hire new people because of the ban on employment. Regarding this law that we are now discussing, the Croatian accreditation agency is also the body that oversees laboratories, which examine the quality of the products, which are being placed on the market through this law. And this is another indicator of the importance of the overall quality infrastructure for the Croatian economy, which also recognises the EU through numerous IPA projects. The SDP will, of course, support this law and wish happiness to our economies to boost exports as much as possible and even with the help of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75659	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75660	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Decision No. 1/2011. The Stabilisation and Association Councils between the EU and the Republic of Croatia of 5 months 2011 amending and supplementing Protocol 4 with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Croatia, of the other part, as regards the definition of "Produces with Origin" and the way of administrative cooperation. The component of the decision is Appendix 5, which defines products excluded from cumulation in the community and cumulation in the Republic of Croatia. To become involved in the system of diagonal cumulation of origin means to improve business conditions for Croatian businessmen and to increase their competitiveness in international frameworks. What does that bring to the manufacturer? It enables it to include in its product materials from another country in the system and to export it as its own product to a third country included in the system, and the necessary conditions are identical rules of origin in free trade contracts applied between the States in the system. For these reasons, the HNS-HSU club will also support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75661	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75662	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Decision No. 1/2011. The Stabilisation and Association Council between the EU and Croatia is amending and supplementing Protocol 4 to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in the part relating to cumulation in the EU and Croatia, i.e. Croatia is involved in the system of diagonal cumulation of origin in which the EU, Albania, BiH, Montenegro, Macedonia, Serbia and Turkey are part of trade in industrial products. in the so-called SAP system. These Croatian producers will be able to install in their product materials as raw materials from some of the mentioned countries, and then export the product as their own, hence the Croatian product to a third country in the system under preferential trading conditions provided for in free trade contracts for products of origin. In particular, it should be stressed that this opens up the possibility of exporting so-called Croatian products to the EU market, which so far has not been possible. Furthermore, the level of competitiveness of Croatian traders and producers is rising by selling EU goods of origin in the countries of the region. When talking about the interests of the economy, it is certainly necessary to mention the interests of the textile, leather, footwear and metal industries but also the food industries of particular processors, fish and fish products producers and also the interests of distribution warehouses located in Croatia, which cover business or distribution in the whole region. For the textile industry, this allows exports of goods to the EU with embedded materials, for example. from Turkey. And since these goods will be exported to the EU market after their inclusion in all the system, at the preferential rate of customs duty, they will not be charged full customs duties until now. The inclusion of Croatia in the SAP system is important for the food industry such as companies that buy raw materials in the countries of the region, for example. Fruit and vegetables and processed in Croatia. Until now, a full rate of customs duties has been paid on imports of these products into the EU market, and now these finished fruit and vegetable products, canned products, jams, frozen cherry, etc. import into the EU market as Croatian products under privileged conditions. The SAP system is also important for fish producers and fish products that produce fish caught in the Adriatic Sea in the countries of the region, e.g. as we have Albania, before exporting to the EU, as it will also allow for the application of preferential trading conditions or customs rates. There are still a number of examples that can show the benefit that Croatia's inclusion in the SAP system of diagonal cumulation of origin will bring to our companies. And we should take advantage of the opportunity to say that this will also apply to Croatian companies dealing with logistics and distribution. Many European companies have chosen Croatia to establish distribution warehouses from which they cover their operations throughout the region, and their problem so far has been the inability to issue EU substitutes 1 certificates. The inclusion of Croatia in the SAP system also solves this problem, i.e. allowing the issue of EU replacement certificates, thus equating business conditions in Croatia with operating conditions in other countries of the region for distribution warehouses. And in the end, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75663	Thank you. Before continuing one notice. The chairman of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, Igor Dragovan, called for a meeting of the committee at 11.00 a.m. in the Chamber of Ivan Kukuljevic. So 11:00 in an hour. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75664	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Decision No. 1/2011 of the Stabilisation and Association Council between the EU and Croatia amending and supplementing Protocol 4 to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between Croatia and the European Community and their members on the definition of the concept of "Produceds with Origin", according to that decision and as the predecessors in their speeches pointed out and said and said by the gentlemen of the Ministry of Economy, it is therefore a system of diagonal cumulation of the origin of the product. And this diagonal or rhombus, however you like, includes several countries in the former Yugoslavia, and this is Montenegro, BiH, Macedonia and Serbia with Albania and Turkey, or as it would say in English, as the English like to say it. So it's covered by the diagonal quietly without any indication, but quite certainly the diagonal cumulation of industrial-economic jugorrhagics. It is true that the great opportunities of Croatia if it is able to take advantage of the smart plan according to which Croatia would actually be and how we would like it to actually be leading in that diagonal, be the top or the center of that rhombo. Even today, when you look at our industrial products, which are originally called Croatian or Croatian quality, not to mention products now, that I don't advertise anyone by starting with "Vegeta", which is the food industry, which has between 1 and 5% of the domestic substrate of the domestic product. It is absolutely certain that Croatian quality, regardless of the events organised by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and all others, is recognizable. Believe me, if we were to conduct a survey in the public population, the vast majority would say that Croatian products are better quality than many others. I won't mention what it's about, but first of all in the food industry. And now that we are talking about the Croatian economy and as the proposal to pass the laws on an urgent procedure says, that it is among other things the basis for the urgent or urgent vote of this bill, that it is said, other particularly justified state reasons. I do not see an explanation that these are other particularly justified state reasons for making or adopting this decision through the vote and the law on that decision. The Croatian economy that would have gained a chance and a chance, and there were countless, had there been visions and strategies among those who run this country, therefore with the Croatian government, but unfortunately indicators are such that gross social product is in decline, that citizens are surrounded by anecdotes, without being offended, so anecdotes that Mr. Economy Minister is a minister without portfolios, so there is no Croatian economy. It may be harshly said, but indeed the Croatian economy is as it is wondered whether it will be able to use this initiative, through the adoption of this decision in the legal form to take advantage of this opportunity, as Mr Kovacevic said, leading in this region to take advantage of his chances in the distribution of the entire English language, not more Yugoslavia, and also for Albania and Turkey, and as far as Croatia is concerned, there is no Slovenia, so that Croatia is clearly in the stabilisation and association known which countries, in order for Croatia to be the one who is exactly leading in this regard. On the other hand, the question arises in view of the economies of other countries listed here, and they are given the same chances, there is no difference in chances or this law was passed only for Croatia. So it is also a matter of wondering if Croatia is unable to accept the armpits, to use, to devise a vision, a strategy, if then other countries in the region will do so. First of all, I think of Serbia, Turkey, Macedonia, Montenegro, etc. It is clear that such a legal proposal can hardly be rejected and it is also clear that if we want to move the economy, move the gross social product, reduce the unemployment rate, improve the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and start the export process towards the European Union through this so-called. Diagonal cumulation of origin. So cumulation of the origin of goods from Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina into some kind of product that will be called Croatian, but also vice versa, so cumulation and Croatian products in products that will bear the mark of those countries that are in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, so also Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia, etc. It's just that that's what I'm saying, mixes, cumulates the origins of the product. If I knew that and if we knew that this would help precisely in those segments that I was talking about, which is an increase in gross social product, a reduction in the unemployment rate, an increase in competitiveness and an increase in exports, so the Croatian economy, then I would raise my hand for this. However, according to the initiatives taken by the Ministry of Economy, it also shared loans to companies according to political similarities, and to companies that are in heavy losses and in poor business, and companies that do not pay taxes to the Croatian state and all of this, not to tell the manipulations that are done and which are evident or which are seen through the media and through various reports, and we have them. I'm afraid neither is the vote of this Decision No. 1/2011 Stabilisation and Association Council that it will probably benefit Croatia less than anyone else. Therefore, we will consult at the club on whether to vote or vote, whether we vote for this legislative proposal or not. Here's so much from the HDSSB club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75665	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, we're done discussing clubs. We still have an individual, but I would like to point out right now that we have now included 54 points of the agenda, 13 have already been prepared, and some others have been announced. Which means that we should work a day longer, it's like the first measure to overcome it. The second would be added on Tuesdays, and the third would be on Mondays and Tuesdays. We're going to go and say it like that, looking at how things are going, so we don't have to do it on Mondays if we don't have to do it on Tuesdays or Tuesdays if we don't have to, but we certainly have to accept doing it longer. That would probably be better than having an extraordinary session. So I ask, however, that we all think about it a little bit, if that's how we had to finish this summer session in the scheduled time period that provides for a regular constitution. It's like a note, I'm asking the clubs to inform themselves a little because it's hard here, somehow there's never enough or a large number of MPs and MPs, so here's to inform each other about what's waiting for us for these 15 days. Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate on this agenda point. Mr. Davor Huška, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75666	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Decision No. 1/2011 of the Stabilisation and Association Council between the European Union and Croatia of 5.5.2011, amending and supplementing Protocol 4 to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and as regards the definition of concepts, products originating in and manner of administrative cooperation preceded the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on 22nd session of 4 February 2011, which adopted the proposal for that decision. The conclusion was also a prerequisite for accepting the position of the Republic of Croatia on inclusion in the system of diagonal cumulation of origin, which will improve the conditions for business of Croatian businessmen and their increased competitiveness in international frameworks. The system of diagonal cumulation of origin shall naturally benefit all economic operators of the countries involved, as it enables the manufacturer to include in its product materials from another country that is in the system and to export it as its own product to a third country also included in the system. The necessary condition to meet this is the identical rules of origin for free trade contracts applying to each other by the countries in the system. Of course, the more countries involved in this system of diagonal cumulation, the greater the potential for accumulation of material, and the greater economic benefits for all those in the system. This system includes 27 members of the European Union as we have heard from Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Macedonia, Serbia and Turkey. But Turkey only for industrial products. By adopting Decision No 1 of 2011 The Stabilisation and Association Councils between the European Union and Croatia of 5.5.2011, amending and supplementing Protocol 4 to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Croatia, of the other part, as regards the definition of the concept of originating products and methods of administrative cooperation, shall be included in the SAP of the diagonal cumulation system of origin. This law, i.e. the decision, will lead to greater competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian businessmen, which is one of the basic shortcomings to pay particular attention to, on which the International Monetary Fund should also be developed in its latest economic recovery assessments, i.e. economic recovery speed and economic growth assessment in the Republic of Croatia. It is certain that this Law will especially welcome Croatian businessmen, exporters, and primarily textiles, wooders, footwear, metals, leather, but also others, of course, along with the food industry that goes towards the countries that are in the system with the export of their products. For all this, I will support the adoption of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75667	Thank you. And Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75668	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. So, as this Law says, it gives Croatian economics the opportunity to be more competitive, to import raw materials from where they are more quality, cheaper and yet final products are branded as originating in Croatia. So this whole law actually helps branding, i.e. creating a brand from our country. However, it is far too small for such an uncompetitive economy as the economy in the Republic of Croatia. I should also apply a whole other spectrum of measures in the area of quality infrastructure to Croatian products, along with various other economic and in-house measures. It is a valuable project of the Centre for the Quality of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce with brands of original Croatian and Croatian quality. Then there are other eco-marks, for example, for organic products, but Croatian companies and businessmen who recognise these values have also been certified at European certification houses for many other certification schemes. In December 2010, the International Standardizaics Organisation also adopted ISO 26000 on socially responsible and ethical business. The norm is expected to be the most successful norm after the ISO 9000 series because it outlines the directions in which organisations, companies, companies, whether national or multinational or even individual governments must operate. Because unofficially even the United Nations organisation has somehow indicated that it expects that, in the future, individual governments are acting on the ISO 26000 standard. We witnessed what happened to British Petroleum after that accident in the Gulf of Mexico. Simply, people no longer wanted to buy its products, tank gasoline at its pumps, or what happened to some world brand manufacturers who used child labor in Asian countries, bribed children who worked for less than a dollar a day to sell tennis shoes for several hundred dollars. Socially aware consumers in Western democracies simply boycott such products. I ask a rhetorical question, is it not possible that any of the good niche for the Croatian economy is precisely the niche of socially responsible business, ethical business and I also ask why the Government is not more agile in promoting and such values? In the Assembly, the SDP's bill of law rejected that non-payment of workers, which translates into slave labor, because if someone works and does not pay, then he is a slave, simply so, but SDP's law has been rejected with the parliamentary majority, the new one has not been released into the procedure, and let's say ISO 26 thousand explicitly prohibits such cases, as it prohibits any discrimination, in any form, as it excludes negative influence and pollution of the environment, etc. Why does the Croatian government not take one step and, let's say, move towards adopting that norm and regulating the Croatian economy in this direction? This law is good, we will support it, we will all be happy to vote for it because it offers additional opportunity for Croatian economies and an additional chance for the brand of the Republic of Croatia to appear as its name in an international environment as a recognizable quality sign. But I am also asking a rhetorical question, will it really help Croatian products if it is known to come from the Republic of Croatia, are being placed on the market of the European Union, and Croatia is also linked to scandals at mass sports events, scandals on, recent scandals on the Split coast, or these latest unfavourable findings, for example, that today's newspapers are writing that Croatian criminals, rapists and murderers are walking freely, and our legal system is doing nothing about it and it is ineffective. I ask the question, then, will branding Croatian names as trade marks really mean a goods and market advantage in the European Union. The government needs much more work not only on the quality infrastructure sector but also on all other sectors, so that the Croatian name as a trade mark is appreciated and recognised on world markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75669	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Ruđer Friganovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75670	Thank you. I would just like to say, as a final word, that although it is relatively I would say a nomotechnically even complicated title and a slightly dry topic of accumulation of origin, it is the essential interest of the Croatian economy towards, the basis which it has to the Ministry of Economy and our negotiators with the European Union was the exceptional pressure of the economy to bring this precisely. It's about what it's about. It is important to know that the SAP system of accumulation exists with both Croatia and Croatia, i.e. the problem of the Croatian economy was that until today it was not included in the SAP system of accumulation of origin, which is why our textiles could not import raw materials from countries, meaning that they were involved in this system and by preferential treatment exported it to the European Union, or if they were to install such raw materials that were cheaper than those which they were otherwise forced to obtain had high protective customs duties. Very plastically speaking, perhaps the production of jeans that was developed very well in Croatia at one point and today existed, if we had a SAP system of accumulation, i.e. we had it until today. Therefore, I would not want this speaker to leave the message that it is any new integration of economic or political. It is the essential interest of the Croatian economy in which the Croatian industry in this part means finally putting itself in the same level as the countries in the environment. Slovenia is certainly involved in the SAP system of accumulation, just because it is a member of the European Union, and therefore I would like this House to really, and when it was voted on for the first time on this decision really unanimously, if it is necessary you can definitely check with your businessmen that it is really about their interest, and I believe that such a decision is indeed in the interest of the Croatian economy. It enables the Croatian industry to acquire parts and stages of production that, in which we are not cost-competitive, which do not give high enough added value, from the region and from other countries, and to install them in the Croatian product and then, as such, we go out to the European Union market which is for us, as we know, a key market. So here again, with thanks to everyone for their debates, I would once again appeal to this House to really warmly support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75671	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75672	We move to the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Decision No. 1/2011 Stabilisation and Association Councils between the EU and Croatia of 5/5/2011 amending and supplementing Protocol 4 to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Croatia, of the other part, as regards the definition of the concept of "Produced by origin" and the way of administrative cooperation, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 827 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The government submitted the amendment before the start of the debate and they became an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I'm voting on this bill that I just read so I don't read again. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This bill of the final draft law was adopted by a majority of the 95 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 1 against. So this law we said.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75673	We move to the next point - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on copyright and related rights, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 824 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, European integration and the economy. You received the reports at the session. Proposer representative, the same state secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Ruđer Friganovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75674	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So copyright and related rights in the Republic of Croatia are governed by the Law on Copyright and Related Rights of 2003, which means that it had amendments and additions in 2007 and sublaws. This legal arrangement is fully in line with the legal acquis of the European Union and it is also a witness and the fact that the chapter that applies to this part in the most part is closed at the end of 2008, means the chapter of the IPR negotiations. This amendment does not apply to essential intellectual property issues, nor copyright, but to harmonising with Directive 123 of 2006 on services on the internal market, i.e. the right of business teaching and the freedom to provide services. It is therefore necessary to amend the provision of Article 157(2) of the applicable law, which prescribes that collective rights associations mean in the current law they can and must have their head office in the Republic of Croatia in such a way that they must have it in the EU. Consequently, from the moment of Croatia's accession to full membership and the full integration of the Croatian market into the common market, such an association will be able to have its head office in any EU Member State. The draft law is discussed on the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. All three committees supported the adoption of laws without objections and by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75675	Thank you. The committees? Legislative? European integration? The economy? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75676	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected representatives of the ministry, Madam MPs, gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us a proposal for a Law amending the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. It is indeed a very short change that consists of only two articles but somehow coincides with this time when Croatia completed pre-accession negotiations. The Copyright and Related Rights Act addressed the issue of copyright protection in line with the EU's legal acquis in the field of intellectual property in terms of the relevant chapter of the EU negotiations in Chapter 7, has been provisionally closed since December 2008, and Croatia has made very good arrangements for those changes in 2007 and earlier. The proposed amendment concerns, not the question of intellectual property, or copyright as such, but the freedom to provide specific services for collective exercise of copyright and related rights. Namely, copyright related rights relate to the rights and system of legal protection of artistic expression and to the protection of organisational, business, financial investment in performance, production, distribution and broadcasting of copyright works, and include the rights of artists, performers on their performances, phonogram producers' rights on their phonograms, the rights of film producers of videograms on their videos, the rights of radio broadcasting organisations on their broadcasts, the rights of publishers on their publications, the rights of database manufacturers on their databases. Indeed, the area of related rights has developed rapidly over the past 50 years. Related rights have developed with copyright and are most often related to the ability to communicate the copyright part of the public. That's the point. Copyright and related rights are crucial for human creation because they provide authors with incentives in the form of recognition and cash compensation, and on the other hand it provides them with certain certainty that their works can be distributed without fear of unauthorized multiplication and piracy, and, if they do so, they are provided with certain copyright protection. Here is the point, and this legislative proposal, which consists of only two articles, is to be coordinated with Directive 2006/123/EC on internal market harmonisation under Chapter 3. - Right of business creation and freedom to provide services. The provision of Article 157(2) of the applicable law, which stipulates that the Association for the collective exercise of copyright must have its head office in the Republic of Croatia, so from the moment of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full EU membership and the full integration of the Croatian market in the common European market, the collective rights association will be able to have its head office in any EU Member State. Here, that's the point, which regulates this amendment to the Copyright and Related Rights Act. In the end, I can only say that the HDZ Representatives' Club will vote in favour and support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75677	Thank you. HNS-HSU representative's club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75678	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the HNS-HSU club to support the amendments, i.e. the proposal to amend this law. It is about amending the Copyright and Related Rights Act, Article 157 is amended as follows: Following the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, the Association for collective exercise of copyright and related rights will be able to have its head office in any of the EU Member States. This Article amends the arrangement under which the Association for collective exercise of copyright and related rights must have its head office in the Republic of Croatia. So we are changing this, in order to comply with the requirements of Articles 14/1 and 16/2a of Directive 2006/123/EC on services in the internal market, the collective exercise of the right from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU will be established in any of the EU Member States. There, the bill holds two articles and the HNS-HSU club will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75679	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75680	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the government, proposings and colleagues and fellow MPs. It is indeed one of the smallest laws that has entered the parliamentary procedure. So it changes two words. Instead of the Republic of Croatia, the European Union is being put in place. But for the consequence, it has a significant effect. Therefore, the exercise of copyright and intellectual property in the Republic of Croatia will also be able to have associations from EU countries. So Croatia is integrated into the EU into one of the most important rights for small peoples and countries. It can become a decisive right for Croatia if the Republic of Croatia has a consistent policy in education, education and science. It's a chance for small countries and small peoples. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, spending and providing money for education, science and education does not grow in relative proportion but falls in relative proportion. And little peoples, because of resources that, by themselves, have less than great lands and great nations. As a percentage, they can have even a higher percentage in human potential, and that should be used when it comes to intellectual property and copyright. And there's something else I want to say. It is not important to declare the matter through the legal text but it is important to ensure its implementation in the real world in real politics. And since the situation is with us with the protection of otherwise owned in the Republic of Croatia, I have to mention that on behalf of the SDP club, we have not yet established trust in land books after 20 years of independence and ownership as the basis of social regulation. All governments so far have sworn and manipulated the public to edit land books in the Republic of Croatia where at least material possessions and similar rights are entered, as in other books intellectual property has not been arranged and the Republic of Croatia does not guarantee the truthfulness of its records. The second thing I want to say is still about that. The protection of that right must be spotless, and we in the Republic of Croatia still have problems with the trial within a reasonable time. So, of course, the SDP club supports the law to change this little change, but it must stress that it is a declaration of things rather than a change of state. Here's what we wanted on behalf of the club, of course we'll vote for the very proposal to amend and supplement the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75681	Thank you. Mr. Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75682	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, as we see before us, is the law that carries P.Z. a label which means the harmonisation of our legislation with the acquis of the EU. In particular, this is about the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, which has been governed by the Copyright and Related Rights Act in the Republic of Croatia since 2003, and the amendments and amendments entered into force on 7 August 2007, as well as the Regulation on professional standards and the procedure for granting authorisations for the exercise of the collective exercise of rights and the fees for the work of the Council of Experts which entered into force in 2004, as well as the amendments and additions which took effect in December 2008 and the relevant international contracts which the Republic of Croatia has joined. The existing law regulates all issues which make up the EU acquis in the field of copyright and related rights as well as intellectual property rights concerning Chapter 7 and we know that it bears the title of intellectual property rights in negotiations with the EU. The existing law with amendments and additions by the EU institutions and its Member States has been declared fully in line with the legal acquis in the field of intellectual property and, consequently, Chapter 7. – Legal intellectual property temporarily closed on 19 December 2008. In the context of Chapter 3 of the legal and commercial establishment and the free provision of services in negotiations with the EU, a review of the compliance of national legislation with the European Community Directive, services on the internal market and the non-compliance of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights with the Directive in question has been carried out. In one article of the existing law, in order to achieve full compliance with the Directive in question, it is necessary to adopt these proposed amendments concerning this law. The proposed law amends the Law on Laws and related rights in order to comply with the Internal Market Services Directive, primarily with its Articles 14 and 16. In the second part of the existing law is fully in line with the Directive and no other amendments and additions are necessary. And so the HSS Club will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75683	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75684	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Copyright and related rights in the Republic of Croatia are governed by the Law on Copyright and Related Rights of the "National Journal", No. 167/2003. years and 79/2007. the years that have undergone the amendments on 30.10.2003. With amendments and additions which entered into force on 7 August 2007 and Regulation and professional standards in the process of issuing, granting and carrying out the activities of collective exercise of rights and in fees for the work of the Council of Experts of the "National Journal", No. 72/2004. year 151/2008 the year which entered into force on 9 June 2004, and the amendments and additions to 23 December 2008, as well as the international contract signed by the Republic of Croatia in the meantime. The proposed amendment does not refer to intellectual property or copyright issues as such but rather to the freedom to provide specific services of collective achievement of copyright and related rights. It is therefore in order to comply with Directive 123/2006. under Chapter 3-Right of business creation, freedom to provide services should be amended as already stated here, Article 157(2) of the applicable law which prescribes that the collective achievement association must have its head office in the Republic of Croatia. And by entering the Republic of Croatia into full EU membership, it will be possible to achieve this right in any EU Member State. Of course I support this amendment to the Copyright Act and related rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75685	Thank you. Madam representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75686	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here I would say that the law that was passed even more, i.e. the amendments and additions in 2007 was adopted on the basis of European legislation and already respected the tradition, values and standards of European legislation, and regardless of what has been formally changed here, but we can say that it is actually very much changing. In some times past, we will remember, and they know maybe a little older, they have rarely been impertinent to the rights of artists, writers, composers and other intellectuals, and this law defines the rights of authors, property rights to compensation and others in the field of the entire European Union or among all EU member states, including Croatia. What I'm saying is, the existing law is modern. It guarantees a European level of protection of copyright and related rights, but also provides tools or effective means for the exercise of those rights. It is necessary to raise awareness, in particular, of those who abuse this right to come under the influence of associations that will be able to have their head office in any Member State of the European Union, that is, those associations that protect copyright and related rights. In this way, as far as Croatia is concerned, we can say that Croatian suicide will be protected. The European Directive is already in force, i.e. it must apply, and copyrights are strongly protected and thus we will also preserve our cultural identity. So I would say that there is no small and large culture, that there is only culture, one that is valuable, one that recognizes us and that Croatia will bring to the European cultural space. I'll support it, I don't think we have much to talk about this even though the subject is complex, and I think the law could actually be spoken of more widely, especially in the new circumstances. So we were just discussing this, about that cyber culture, about stealing in a cyber world that's happening more and more often, but I think there's going to be opportunities under some other laws to talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75687	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75688	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. So this is a very small law, but important. Two words are being changed, which may include a record player among the laws that came to the debate at the Croatian Parliament. However, this merely points to the fact that other things were not needed to be changed. This law refers essentially to two chapters, the right of business and chapter 7 on intellectual property, and this is an example of the fact that when a law is well prepared that it should not be changed by substance often, and this was just an example of this Law on Copyright that was passed in the fall of 2003 during Racan's Government as one of the laws in the package that regulated intellectual property and quality infrastructure issues. Unfortunately, the State Institute for Intellectual Property once played a much stronger and more important role in the Republic of Croatia because many foreign companies, especially in the field of biotechnology, came to Croatia to patent and secure patent rights for their research and development precisely because a giant Pliva had its own developmental research institute in Croatia. However, in the wind of privatisation and follow-up scandals, the Plivin Research Institute disappeared, but unfortunately we no longer have research and development in that area and segment where we were once recognizable, but here at least remains the State Institute for Intellectual Property as one organisation that protects such and similar rights, patents, stamps, intellectual property, etc. Therefore, it should be stressed that the quality infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia is working to help the Croatian economy and should remain that way, and one of the links of this system is the State Intellectual Property Institute. In this law, the last paragraph says that it will enter into force on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and while it probably does not change anything as it would probably not change on the day of its publication in the "National Journal", most of the laws of the Europeans that we bring here in the Croatian Parliament have just such an article that the law enters into force on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. And God himself no longer knows in what relationship all these laws we have passed and what will really happen with the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union when all the laws, especially those relating to the economy, begin to apply. At the same time, the application of European standards, international norms of which there are about 20 thousand, and we were obliged to accept them under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and we can probably expect that, on the day of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, there will be total chaos not only in the Croatian economy but also in general in the legislation. Economys will probably not be able to identify what they do, what laws they need to apply, which they do not. Many cases of contradiction within individual laws, in particular these technical or environmental protection issues, so that one detailed analysis should be made before the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union, purification and ambiguity, contradictions in order to ensure legal certainty and traceability not only for the citizens but also for the Croatian owners of which we all live. Unfortunately, there is no reference among many laws to similar laws and to the interrelationships of these laws with related laws and even to the area in which they apply in order to clean up illogicalities and contradictions prior to adoption. Here in the Parliament, even if the ruling majority rejects the most non-political amendments that have nothing to do with politics. There are even such cases that certain laws alter fundamental physical principles. But no, when an amendment or a warning is given to the government that the obvious illogicality or unnecessary recklessness is passed in law. No, that's not correct because the proposals come from the ranks of opposition MPs. That's how we in Parliament changed the definition of nuclear fission. I don't know why that was necessary. We're probably the only country in the world that legally changes fundamental physical laws. In the Law of Protection against Excessive Light, we have conditioned that a beam of light goes into space and not down. So, quite the opposite of what was the intensity of the law. But here's the situation. They'll probably have to change that one time. However, all of this unfortunately represents additional costs because every law must again come to debate in the Croatian Parliament and then waste unnecessary time and energy on something that could have been done before and painless. Fortunately, this law only changes two words and is not one of those, although it remains an open question of what would actually happen if it came into force immediately, not on the day of the Republic of Croatia's entry into the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75689	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75690	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, dear colleague, this is your latest quote that very often proposals that come from opposition lines and Priors refuse whether they are reasoned or not are justified and are indeed more than accurate. And here's what I'm going to say about the previous agenda. I hope this will be taken as a well-intentioned remark. I'm sorry that moment I wasn't inside. But also in this Law, which we have adopted under the first point, here is a proposal which I hope will be understood as such and corrected, because in the final proposal for a law that we have discussed under the previous point in Article 1 there are 22 languages of the European Union. One language's been skipped. Well, here I am, even though it comes from the opposition ranks, we passed one law. I propose that it be complemented by twenty-thirds, because that is something we need to sign with the European Union. If I saw correctly, we left out the Irish language. We've listed everything. The Irish have their own official language on at least the European Union's pages. That's what their specific very similar English says, so let's make a contribution to what you said this time to see how the ruling majority will behave. This is indeed for the purpose of all of us who represent the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75691	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75692	Dear fellow, yes, a little more tolerance would not hurt here in the Croatian Parliament, especially if some remarks and suggestions come from the ranks of MPs who come from a particular profession and therefore do not enter the metrics, but really correct not only the expression but the fact. So, the technical side of the law. And I'm saying, a little more tolerance and trust, both the government and the ruling party in such interventions would really be helpful. Because there's a real paradox to say in the Air Protection Act it's in the rule book whether you have to measure the particles of two and a half meters. Well, it's asteroids. Why? Because in the conversion, that micro and then it's a micrometer, then it's turned into a meter. But no, it was in force I don't know for a few years and it's stupid. That's paradoxical. That can't happen. All because the government hates Linux and then uses the Microsoft word and then such situations happen in the nomoch. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75693	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75694	We move to the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 824 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on copyright and related rights. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 99 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75695	We move to the next point - Final proposal for a double-use control law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 826. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committees on legislation, on European integration and on the economy. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Ruđer Friganovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75696	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. A large number of countries, and between them and Croatia have established and improve the legal, institutional frameworks of national dual-purpose control systems. According to the definition of dual-use goods, including software and goods technology which can be used for both civil and military purposes, and which can be used in any way to produce nuclear, chemical or biological weapons, or weapons of mass destruction, or missiles capable of carrying such weapons. The supervision, i.e. the dual-use export control system in Croatia, was initiated with effect from 1 January 2005 by the Law on the Export of dual-use goods. The law was later amended and amended in July 2008 by adding criminal provisions, and by introducing technical assistance, brokering and dual-purpose goods to meet the standards prescribed by the United Nations Security Council of 1540. The list of dual-purpose goods shall be brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and shall be regularly aligned with the list of dual-purpose goods of the European Union. The supervision of dual-purpose goods within the European Union has been established by Council Regulation 428 of 5 May 2009 laying down the regime of the Community for the control of exports, transfer, intermediation and transport of dual-purpose goods. The existence of a common system of supervision and a harmonised policy for the implementation and monitoring in all Member States is a prerequisite for the establishment of a free movement of dual-purpose goods within the Union, responsibility for the decision on export licences, authorisations for brokerage services, for the transport of dual-use goods not from the Union, or for transfer licences within the Union shall be subject to the authorities of the Member State. The Regulation, mentioned Council Regulation of the European Union 428 of 2009 is part of the European Union's common commercial policy and is fully binding and directly applicable in all Member States. In order to ensure its correct application, each Member State should take measures to give the competent authorities the appropriate powers. Therefore, this proposal for a law has been drawn up allowing for the direct application of this Regulation in the Republic of Croatia. The law will enter into force on the date of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and will put an existing regulation out of force. It is important to say that the law does not make new obligations for the Croatian economy, the Croatian rules on double-use control are already fully in line with the Council regulation, and this law does not impose new restrictions on domestic exporters. On the contrary, such a regulated legislative framework based on the acquis of the European Union is a potential comparative advantage of the country, especially for multinational companies operating in accordance with export control requirements, especially when it comes to attracting foreign investment in high-tech technologies. Finally, it should be noted that Croatia's willingness to contribute to preventing proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, together with the tendency to become a Member State of the European Union and of NATO, was the main motive and driving force of the Croatian government in establishing such an effective dual-purpose export control system. Following all of this, the government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the parliament to accept the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75697	Thank you. The committees? Legislative, European integration, economy? I'm opening a debate. HNS's club, HSU's, Ms. Danica Hursa's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75698	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, respected lawmakers, colleagues and colleagues. The double-use export law is in line with Council Regulation 428 of 2009. Therefore, according to the harmonised law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is an obligation to adopt, annually, a Regulation on double-use goods, on the list of double-use goods. The dual-purpose surveillance area in the European Union is governed by the said regulation, as a secondary source of law, by the degree of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, the regulation will be fully applied in the Republic of Croatia. What's a dual-purpose stuff? In dual-use goods we include computer programs and technologies that can be used for both civil and military purposes and for the production of weapons of mass destruction and missiles capable of carrying such weapons. According to the proposal of this law, the conditions for the supervision of dual-purpose goods are therefore laid down in a section not covered by the regulations of the European Union, or in a part which is in the power of the Republic of Croatia. The law regulates the regime of the Community for the control of exports, transfer, brokering, and the transport of goods in such a way as to prescribe the procedure and the competent authorities for issuing licences, the exercise of supervision and the criminal provisions. According to the draft law, the control of technical assistance in certain types of military use is defined. In addition to the law, we have a statement on the compliance of the bill with the acquis and acts of the European Union and of the Council of Europe. Such a bill will support the Croatian People's Party and Croatian Party's club of pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75699	Thank you. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75700	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The current dual-use export control system has been implemented by the Republic of Croatia since January 2005 by the double-use export law laying down the conditions for exporting dual-use goods, the jurisdiction of the public administration body, and also the rights and obligations of exporters carrying out exportation of such goods. Double-use goods are goods that can be used for civil and military purposes, as well as for the production of weapons of mass destruction and missiles capable of carrying such weapons. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is among the biggest security threats in general and requires comprehensive but also harmonised national and international agreements and cooperation, which is why the European Union regulation also aims to maximise the effectiveness of supervision. In 2004, the UN Security Council adopted a resolution calling on all States to take joint measures, in accordance with their national legislation, to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, their delivery systems and related materials, in a way that prevents the transport and brokering of dual-use goods that could be used to produce weapons of mass destruction. Obligations under UN Resolution 1540 were incorporated into the additions of the Double-For-For Export Act, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament in July 2008. The existing rules of the Double-Intent Export Act and the Double-Intent List Regulation are fully in line with Council Regulation No 428 of 2009 laying down the regime of the Community for the control of exports, transfer, brokering and dual-use of goods. The new Double-Intent Control Act will take effect with the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, which will put the existing law out of force. Given that the dual-purpose surveillance area at EU level is governed by a binding and directly applicable regulation in the Member States, it is also necessary to adopt in the Republic of Croatia a regulation enabling its implementation in the country. It should also be noted that all provisions already prescribed by the regulation, such as the definitions and obligations of the exporter, the criteria for issuing licences, type of licences and the like are not prescribed again in national regulations but are directly applicable in the Member States. The proposal for a new Double-Food Control Act lays down the conditions for the control of goods which primarily relate to the establishment of competent authorities for the issue of licences, in this case the Ministry of Economy, the authorisation procedure and the exercise of controls and also criminal provisions. Each Member State shall take appropriate measures to ensure the effective application of the Regulation, in particular lays down penalties for infringement of the Regulation, or adopted regulations for its implementation. These penalties must be effective, shall be proportionate and shall, first and foremost, have the effect of deterrence. Article 24 of this Act provides that those who export dual-use goods without an export licence, provide brokerage services, provide technical assistance without authorisation, does not notify the Ministry that it is a dual-use goods or does not notify the Ministry of any change in the intended end-use of dual-use goods that occurred after the export licence has been issued to a extent that may endanger the first enforcement of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia and other foreign or defence interests of the Republic of Croatia will be punished by a prison of 6 months to 5 years. If the offence referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article causes the death of more than one person or the property damage caused by a large proportion will be punished by a prison sentence of at least 5 years. We also hold that the penalties prescribed like this will primarily realize and obtain the important effect, which is the effect of deterrence. Finally, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75701	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75702	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we are, therefore, in front of us, a proposal for a Law on the Control of Double Purpose, which is part of a package of European laws, that is, a law that harmonizes our national legislation with legislation, i.e. the acquis of the EU. In particular, we align our legislative framework with the EU Council Regulation 428 of 5 May 2009 which is part of the EU's common trade policy and is therefore binding and directly applicable in all Member States. And it is also important to say how it determines the regime of the community for export, transfer, brokering and transport of dual-purpose goods. The dual-use goods, as we have heard on several occasions, therefore include computer programs and technology of goods that can be used for both civil purposes and military purposes, and in any way can be used in full and in part for the production of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. The existing dual-use control system in the Republic of Croatia has been applied since January 2005 under the double-use Export Act, noting that the control of exports of these goods plays an important role in preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction which today, known as the fact, poses a major threat to regional and world security. It is also known that the Republic of Croatia is not a large producer of dual-purpose goods, but because of its geographical location, a potential transit country is also of great importance for both national and European security and global security. For this reason, in July 2008, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Double-For-For Export Act, which strengthened and improved the system of control of dual-use exports of goods. The new provisions of the law have reached standards laid down by UN Security Council Resolution 1540 in order to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction which has obliged Member States to lay down rules to prevent the transport and brokerage of dual-purpose goods intended for the production of weapons of mass destruction. Of course, the objective of the amendments mentioned and the addition of the law was not to therefore slow down or restrict international trade in material, equipment and technology used for peace purposes, but rather to enable the suspension of transactions in goods with dual purpose when there is doubt that it could be used to produce weapons of mass destruction. It should also be said that the existing Export Law on dual-purpose goods is fully in line with the relevant Council Regulation. However, the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU is determined at EU level, not at individual Member State level, given that Council Regulation 428/2009 is part of the EU's common trade policy and is therefore binding and directly applicable in all Member States. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. In order for that Regulation to be directly applicable in the Republic of Croatia on the day of its accession to the EU, it is therefore necessary to adopt a regulation enabling this. This is exactly what will happen by adopting a new Double Purpose Control Act, which will take effect on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, as set out in Article 29 of the Law. The proposal for a dual-purpose control law lays down the conditions for the control of dual-use goods in a part not prescribed by the EU or has authorised Member States to bring in a specific part at national level certain provisions concerning such goods themselves. The proposed law therefore lays down the competent authorities for the issue of licences, the authorisation procedure and the exercise of control over the provision of technical assistance services as well as the overall supervision and criminal provisions in respect of the implementation of Council Regulations. Finally, this dual-use control law does not change the existing dual-use export control system in the Republic of Croatia, which means that licences continue to be issued by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and therefore the Croatian economy should not expect significant changes by way of force of the law in question. At the end of the day, I will personally support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75703	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75704	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. This is one in a series of European laws that aligns Croatian legislation with EU legislation, which is related to dual-purpose surveillance of goods. So far, the dual-purpose export control system of the goods has been established in the Double-Fore Export Act, implemented through the Double-Foreign Export Act, and the Republic of Croatia has implemented that law since 1 January 2005. The law is fully in line with Council Regulation 428/2009 of 5 May 2009 establishing a regime for the control of exports of transmission, rocking and dual-use goods. He says that dual-use goods are those goods including computer programs and technology, which can be used for both civil and military purposes and for the production of weapons of mass destruction, and missiles capable of carrying such weapons. Surely such goods deserve both special attention and a special law that is happening in this very law. The adoption of the Double Purpose Export Act meets one of the most important conditions for Croatia's membership in international export control regimes, and the Republic of Croatia has become a member of the Wassenaar Conventional Arms and Dual-Farms Control Agreement, then the Group for the Prevention of the Expansion of Nuclear Weapons and Materials, and the Australian Chemical and Biological Weapons Control Group. Since the dual-purpose surveillance area at EU level is regulated by the regulation as a secondary source of EU law, which will be applied directly and fully by the EU Republic of Croatia, this proposal of the Double-Food Control Act will also allow for its implementation. The European Council Regulation 428/2009 is part of the EU's common trade policy and is binding and directly applicable in all Member States, so it will also be in our country on the day of Croatia's accession to the EU. The proposal for a double-purpose control law lays down the conditions for the control of dual-use goods in a work where the EU rules do not regulate it or have authorised Member States to regulate this area in their national regulations. Furthermore, the competence of the licensing authority, the authorisation procedure and the exercise of supervision shall be determined and at the end of the criminal provision for the implementation of the Council Regulation 428/2009. For the sake of this, I support the adoption of the Double-Intent Control Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75705	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75706	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's another law with a delayed degree in force. Although the law refers to preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction, therefore to the contribution of the Republic of Croatia to this important segment of European security and defence policy, and also to world peace, I see no reason why we must bring this into effect with a delayed degree of force. Perhaps because the European Commission had serious objections to the Ministry of Economy's address on chapter 15. – Energy, i.e. the status of the inspection body at the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security. Namely, I refer to the word nuclearly and to control in this law. Our negotiators negotiated a model of functioning of the inspection body within the State Nuclear Security Office during negotiations for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into full EU membership. However, we are here in the Assembly by adopting the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security of the Two Institutes of the State Nuclear Security and the State Department for radiation protection, which is perhaps not the worst option for the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security. It is no longer independent of what is contrary to the international conventions signed by the Republic of Croatia, which is contrary to the practice of the International Atomic Energy Agency as a specialised UN body for the peaceful use of nuclear technologies, and in addition to the European Commission's latest Progress Report, the report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia has remained recorded that this is the solution by which the inspection body has two-stage structure and the ultimate law of the Ministry of Health over the inspection carried out by the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security. So it is not the best solution and it is not appropriate for the solutions that other European countries have. Given that the Republic of Croatia will be subject to a certain monitoring during this transitional period until full membership, the question is that gentlemen from the European Union will refer to that remark. Although the chapter has already been negotiated the fact that the problem remains, it is particularly expressed in monitoring the work of certain instruments that use nuclear and radiological techniques in hospitals because we are coming into the situation of cadium prosecutors, the cadium judges, so the Ministry of Health is self-monitoring. I really don't know why we always have to, not always, but often we have to fool around, and then we can only correct the laws under the pressure of these experts from the European Commission. Here I am warning that one such situation is related to this law which should normally be supported, although I am asking again why it must be delayed and why the Republic of Croatia cannot show right now and in this place that it really wants to contribute with all its heart to European peace, security and cooperation and I do not see at all the reasons why it does not come into effect immediately, so we do not have any hidden intentions with nuclear, radiological, chemical, biological and what I know about materials that would produce or broker the weapons of mass destruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75707	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Ruđer Friganovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75708	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. Again, we thank you for the discussion that is constructive indeed and we believe that we agree that it is really a law that is necessary. Just to clarify, to avoid regaining the false impression, at this point this matter is fully covered by the Export Act of dual-purpose goods in the Republic of Croatia. We are in that part of the negotiations, it was under Chapter 30 of the European Union, I think the negotiations in that part were closed somewhere in 2008 or 2009, I apologize for not knowing the exact date. This is one part of this problem is exactly the area where in all the monitors and talks with the European Union we get the best grades. In fact, we are really an active member and a vassary group and all the other relevant international bodies, and I really wouldn't want to get the impression that such an important substance is actually being delayed for, here we now know exactly how many years it means. Therefore, at this point this area in the Republic of Croatia is very well arranged, we have a system that is completely compatible with the European Union. What this law is really about is that, in fact, by entering the Republic of Croatia into full membership, the provisions of the relevant Directive of the European Union are, in fact, directly taken over by this law. Here's an additional clarification. I thank you all for your constructive discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75709	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75710	We move to the Proposal for a Law on the Control of dual-purpose goods, with the Final Proposal for the Law emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 826 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Proposal for a law on the control of dual-purpose goods. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously with 100 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75711	We move to the next point - Final proposal of the service law, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 669 Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, on European integration, on the economy and on development and reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Ruđer Friganovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75712	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. So before us today is the final proposal of the service law. In accordance with the commitments made under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Articles 49 and 56, respectively. The Republic of Croatia is obliged to fully transpose the provisions of Directive 123 of 2006 on services on the internal market until accession to the European Union. The directive in question aims to remove trade barriers for service providers from the Member States of the European Union, i.e. the European Economic Area. In fact, this Directive strengthens the European Union's internal market. We know that the internal market is, by definition, what we have freedom of movement of goods, capital and people, and that through this directive, an extremely important area of service is also being further liberalised. The European Union is seeking economic and social development and the abolition of barriers to the development of service activities among Member States has a key importance for strengthening trade integration. It is important to ensure that the development of service activities contributes to the achievement of the task of promoting a coherent, balanced and sustainable development of economic activities, a high level of employment and social security, sustainable and non-inflation growth of high levels of competitiveness and convergence of economic results, a high level of environmental protection, an increase in standards and quality of life, and economic and social cohesion and solidarity of Member States. The Services Directive is a general framework for a large range of services taking into account the different characteristics of each activity or profession and their system of arrangements, and will allow for the harmonisation, modernisation of national regulatory systems for service activities, and what is important for the achievement of the functional internal market in services. The harmonisation of national legislation should be ensured on the day of accession of a high degree of legal integration of the Republic of Croatia with the legal system of the European Union as well as a high degree of protection of the objectives of general interest, in particular the protection of consumers as necessary in order to establish trust between the Member States of the European Union. The service law is important for the Croatian legal system since it is a horizontal roof law that has been passed for the first time in the Republic of Croatia and is fully governed by the service sector. The law regulates the right to establishment and the free provision of services in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, while harmonising the high degree of security and quality of such services in accordance with the Services Directive. The Services Act removes obstacles to the free establishment of service providers in the Republic of Croatia and obstacles to the free movement of services between the Republic of Croatia and the Member States of the European Union and guarantees legal certainty to recipients and service providers necessary for the implementation of these two fundamental freedoms under the Treaty on European Union. Since services represent an engine of economic growth and are responsible for 70% of GDP and employment in most EU Member States, this law establishes an internal market for services by maintaining a balance between opening up the market and preserving public services and social and consumer rights. In particular, the law enables the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises and the free movement of workers, while consumers access a greater choice of services with more competitive prices. In order to implement all activities to transpose this Directive into the Croatian national system, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an implementation plan for the Services Directive which provides for the adoption of this Act on 22 October 2009. In view of the importance of the area governed by this Act, it is not the same regardless of the fact that it is in conformity with the directives of the European Union, it has already passed the first reading procedure in order to bring all stakeholders on the market and by the Croatian Parliament unanimously adopted on 15 December 2010. The law is now in its second reading as the Final Bill on Services, which includes all comments, proposals and opinions in the first reading in the Croatian Parliament as well as amendments to the relevant parliamentary committees. The final proposal for a service law is in line with the procedural provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act and is nomotechnically completed with the purpose of a more precise, more high-quality and clear definition of the provisions of this law, which is important to emphasise since the transfer of new European acquis to national legislation has been transposed and part of a new legal terminology that has not been common or known in Croatian national legislation. The law applies exclusively to the conditions relating to access or implementation of service activities and includes services provided in exchange for economic compensation such as business services, such as legal or tax counselling, certification or testing, the management of facilities including the maintenance of facilities, advertising, employment, and commercial brokers' services, real estate operations such as the Agency for Sale of Real Estates, Construction including the services of architects, distribution trade, services in the field of tourism including services and tourist guides and recreational services. Services of general economic interest are services provided in exchange for economic compensation and are within the scope of this Act, but not all. Certain services of general economic interest such as some in the field of transport or postal services are excluded from the scope of this law. In accordance with the rules on competition in the section of this Act, the financing of services of general economic interest is not in line with the rules on competition. We want to list some of the most important categories of services that this Law does not include. These are financial services such as banking, lending, insurance, reinsurance, professional personal pensions, securities, investment funds, electronic communications networks and services as well as related resources, transport services including urban transport, taxis, emergency assistance and port services, health care and pharmaceutical services, audio visual services, protection or promotion of cultural and linguistic diversity, pluralism of media including their financing. Some of the more important issues that are being settled by this law. First freedom of business. Freedom of business is based on the principle of prohibition of discrimination based on citizenship and any other indirect discrimination on the basis of reasons which may have the same consequences. The Services Act allows for the right of free establishment in the territory of the Republic of Croatia for service providers from the Member States of the European Union under the same conditions as for citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The term business creation belongs to a new terminology in Croatian legal expression and was first mentioned here, and for the first time in the Republic of Croatia was actually introduced into the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The right to a business establishment is the right of the service provider to establish a seat or any of the related organisational forms such as a branch in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or of another Contracting State of the European Economic Area. Business creation in practice means free registration of companies, crafts, cooperatives and institutions in the area of the entire European economic area under equal conditions for domestic and foreign service providers on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. It is particularly important to stress that service providers with registered business headquarters in our country will be able to exercise the right of business creation and freedom to provide services with other members of the European Union. The freedom to provide cross-border services includes cases in which services are provided at a distance and where the recipient travels to a Member State in which the provider has a business place to receive services, so this law regulates the free provision of cross-border services in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which implies the possibility of legal and natural persons registered in a Member State of the European Union to provide services in the Republic of Croatia without the obligation to register their business headquarters in our country. The concept of non-discrimination on the internal market is introduced, which means that the recipient, in particular the consumer, must not be prevented or restricted to the service available to the public on the basis of the criteria relating to nationality or residence of the recipient contained in the general conditions available to the public. The law regulates the possibility of prescribing high quality services, in particular the conditions relating to the provision of relevant information, transparency of the procedure and business. Administrative cooperation is crucial for the proper functioning of the internal market. The lack of cooperation between Member States leads to the proliferation of rules relating to service providers or the doubling of cross-border controls, and such a situation can also be used by unfair traders to avoid supervision and to circumvent the applicable national regulations. To that end, a transparent system for the establishment of an authorisation, including, inter alia, administrative procedures for the granting of authorisation, authorisation, authorisation or concessions, and for the fulfilment of the conditions for carrying out the activity, compulsory membership in a professional company, registration in a register, list or database, official designation in a particular body or possession of a document confirming the membership of a particular profession. An orderly request is accepted, i.e. The approval shall be granted not only by a decision of the competent authority but also by a decision resulting from the silence of the administration. It is also prescribed to prohibit discriminatory or disproportionate checks of controls or investigations. The establishment of an electronic unique service contact point. The basic objective of the Services Directive, and thus the law to stimulate international cooperation and trade, as well as simplified business for small and medium-sized enterprises, by establishing a single contact point as a central portal, provides the same service and assistance as providing assistance to businesses in carrying out all administrative procedures from setting up to obtaining different permits and certificates and other necessary business documents both for domestic and foreign service providers. To this end, the law regulates the establishment of an electronic contact point for services at the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Centre for Business Information for both providers and recipients of services. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce was also designated as a place for the establishment of a single contact point in the implementation plan for Directive 123 of 2006 on services on the internal market adopted by the government in October 2009. The work to establish a single point has already started in 2010 with the help of Dutch pre-accession aid programmes. The main partner on the Dutch side is the Center of Experts Organisation, which has established a single contact point for services in the Netherlands. The project was provided by the Dutch government. On this occasion, I would like to point out that a unique contact point on the new Croatian Chamber of Commerce website was released into operation on 31 May 2011. The Directive and the Service Act relate largely to regulated professions which have mainly their own professional chambers, so that in the context of a single contact point, as well as other legal solutions, special attention has been paid to avoiding so-called avoidance. the overlapping of competences, duties and activities of different bodies, so that, for regulated professions, the contact point will be in accordance with Article 66. The law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications shall be the national ENIC/NARIC office of the Agency for Science and Higher Education, which will also run the database for regulated professions, and the professional chambers will be responsible for activities from their field of work including regulated professions. For the administrative cooperation of the Member States of the European Union, it is necessary to provide the correct electronic information system to enable the competent authorities to easily identify relevant partners in other Member States, and effective communication, and therefore the law prescribes a connection to so-called ‘the law’. ... The information system or we can call it a system of information on the internal market that serves the administrative cooperation of the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a system for electronic exchange of information of effective supervision of service providers in all and all other business entities. In accordance with the above, measures relating to the safety and quality of services, i.e. a high level of consumer protection, as well as all business operators on the market, will be put in place. The establishment of a legal structure is also prescribed, meaning the national co-ordinator for administrative cooperation with other members of the European Union, the National Coordinator for Law Services, and the National Coordinator for Information on the Security of Services. The coordinators will coordinate the work of all state administration bodies and other bodies responsible for service activities in the area of law enforcement. It is necessary to stress that, after the adoption of the law, its part that prescribes the obligation to comply with the specific rules with the same, enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in the National Journal. This is of particular importance because this will allow Croatia's legislation in the sector to be fully harmonised and ready for use on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Specific institutes such as multidisciplinary activities of the service provider shall enter into force on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. In the application of the rules, there is a rule that the specific regulation is stronger than the general interest, the basis of that rule will apply the specific rules which are in force. What is essential in this case is the obligation of the Head of the Central Government to comply with their specific regulations with the Service Act. The Services Act will allow for an active space for the functioning of all professional bodies, as it gives them a clear and democratic framework of equal opportunities with full respect and respect for the profession and the specific rules governing the profession. Such a legal approach also encourages professional bodies to draw up and adopt rules of conduct in accordance with the specific nature of each profession that will regulate business communications, professional ethics rules, and behaviours for regulated professions to ensure their independence, impartiality and business secrecy in particular. The adoption and implementation of this law is also expected to have positive effects on the Croatian economy. We have already said that the service sector is a driver of economic growth and accounts for around 70% of GDP in most EU Member States, while services from the domain of this directive account for about 40% of GDP. In the Member States of the European Union, the directive began to apply de facto only last year, meaning from 28 December 2009. In 2010, the contribution to annual GDP growth in the Member States of the European Union ranged from 0.6 to 1% and the employment contribution ranged from 0.3 to 0.4%. The higher competition and efficiency of the provision of services on the free market have also led to lower average prices of services. The share of the service sector in Croatia's GDP is around 58% at the moment, and the total number of employees is around 65%. Based on these indicators, it can be concluded that the adoption of this law and harmonisation of other rules with this law in the coming years and in our country will increase the share of the service sector and will bring it closer to the average of the members of the European Union. In particular, we would like to point out that the application of the Services Act will have positive effects on the Croatian economy, i.e. growth in employment, income and foreign investment, given the liberalisation effects of market integration. The removal of barriers to free business creation and the free provision of cross-border services will create preconditions for the successful integration of the Croatian service sector into the single European market, and the greatest benefit from free access to the single market will be small and medium-sized Croatian enterprises, so those who will be competitive, whose market will simply increase. Therefore, market liberalisation should be seen not only from the point of view of opening the national market for foreign competition, but also as opening up a new opportunity for domestic businesses. The liberalisation of the service market will contribute to the information and protection of consumers, the safety of service quality, the repression of the grey economy and the reduction of service prices. From an economic point of view, we reiterate the importance of the fact that the Croatian business sector will open up a market of around 500 million potential consumers after accession to the European Union. During the debate on the parliamentary committees, an amendment of the Legislative Committee was adopted to Article 9(4) adopted by the applicant. Following all of this, I propose that the final one, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the Final Proposal of the Service Act be adopted in this House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75713	Thank you. The committees? Legislative, European integration, economy, development and reconstruction? I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75714	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's our secretary of state in his debate was really detailed and exhaustive, so I'm probably going to cut this debate short on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club. So we have before us the Final Proposal of the Service Act, which means that we already had the debate on this law in the first reading, at the end of 2010, with the note that the legislator, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia, made all the remarks, proposals, opinions that were made and could be heard during the debate in the first reading, which certainly contributed to the quality of the final text of the Services Act. It is also one of the very important reasons why the Croatian Democratic Community's Representatives Club will support its adoption. The basic reason why we are also adopting the Services Act is to fully harmonise national legislation with the acquis of the EU and to do so under Chapter 3. – The right of business established and freedom to provide services, and to which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has committed itself under the implementation plan for Directive 123/2006 on services on the internal market that it adopted in October 2009. Therefore, the Services Act will take over the basic provisions of the directive mentioned in the Croatian national legislation aimed at liberalising the market for services through the abolition of trade barriers and the right to business creation and freedom to provide services on the EU's internal market, but also to establish administrative cooperation between EU Member States. When it comes to the European Internal Market Services Directive, it should also be said that it was adopted on 12 December 2006 and that EU Member States have started to apply it since 28 December 2009, and that the Republic of Croatia is obliged to meet all the conditions for its full application since the date of accession of the EU. As far as the Services Act itself is concerned, it should be said that it is very important for the legal system of the Republic of Croatia because it is the so-called so-called ". the horizontal, or roof law, adopted for the first time in the Republic of Croatia and fully governed by the service sector. In view of the fact that it is a roof law that provides for general principles, it is necessary to stress that the provisions of the law in question will also have to be harmonised with its provisions and that the provisions of other specific regulations for service activities to which the law in question relates, which the Secretary of State has spoken in detail, and I do not think that there is a need to repeat that part and thus ensure their compliance with the provisions of the Services Directive, while also ensuring rules for any new services that appear on the market. It should also be said that the provision on the obligation to comply with the specific rules enters into force on the eighth day from the day of the publication of the law in the National Journal, which leaves quite enough time for the harmonisation of Croatian legislation in this sector and its full readiness to apply the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, noting that the analysis and assessment of the harmonisation of national legislation in this area has begun in 2009 in accordance with the deadlines set out in the implementation plan. Therefore, for a full year and a half, the provisions of legal and other rules relating to service activities in the domain of the Services Directive and their compliance with the provisions of the Directive are analysed. Of course, all those provisions which are established by the analysis that do not comply with the provisions of the Services Directive will have to be harmonised, i.e. to remove or amend. It is, of course, extremely extensive and demanding business, given the fact that an analytical review covers a large number of legal and other rules that regulate the right of business creation and freedom to provide services, and some of them are listed in the text of the arguments under the final proposal of the Service Act. Before I say anything concrete about the most important issues to be covered by the Services Act, it is necessary to say, of course, if we adopt the proposed law, which I have no doubt at all, that it will be applied to services provided by service providers with the right to commercial establishment in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or in the State Parties to the Treaty on European Economic Area, which includes all EU Member States, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. The most important issues covered by the proposed Services Act refer to the right of establishment, which means the possibility of free registration of the business headquarters of a company, craft, cooperative or institution in the territory of the Republic of Croatia for legal and natural persons from the Contracting States of the European Economic Area under the same conditions as for Croatian citizens. Furthermore, the freedom to provide cross-border services in the territory of the Republic of Croatia for service providers established in the countries of European economic space, which means that there is no obligation to register headquarters in the Republic of Croatia if the service provider has a registered head office in any of these countries. Furthermore, the possibility for service providers with registered business headquarters in the Republic of Croatia, the exercise of the right to business creation and the freedom to provide services in all countries of the European Economic Area, the establishment of a single control point, and the connection to the information system of the internal market, etc. "IMI system" and finally to establish law enforcement structures at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship as a competent body, by setting up a national co-ordinator for administrative cooperation with other Member States of the European Economic Area, the National Coordinator for Services and the National Coordinator for Information on the Security of Services. It is also necessary to point out in Article 39 of the proposed law that a significant number of provisions relating to the freedom to provide services on the territory of the Republic of Croatia will come into effect only on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia. Taking into account the fact that the Croatian economy as well as the EU economy is mostly service-oriented, what is best seen by the share of services in GDP that tends to continue to grow and take into account the positive experience of EU member states from the moment of application of the Services Directive is justified to expect that the liberalisation of the service markets will contribute to increasing business freedom in Croatia and direct foreign investment, the creation of new jobs, further development of trade relations, quality and security of services, and also to the protection of consumers, as well as finally increasing the competitiveness and reduction of service prices, i.e. by increasing consumer income. Therefore, trade liberalisation of the service sector should be a very important factor in overall economic growth and development of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, respecting everything previously said, and in particular the fact that the liberalisation of the service sector will certainly contribute to the overall economic prosperity of the Croatian Club of Representatives of the HDZ will support the adoption of the Services Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75715	Thank you. HNS-HSU representative's club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75716	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will say that I am grateful to the Secretary of State for the introduction that he gave a comprehensive and very, very detailed explanation of this law for which we in the club HNS-HSU hold that it is an extremely important law and that its application will give many positive effects on the economy of the Republic of Croatia. And now, just in a few sentences on behalf of the HNS-HSU club, I'm going to give my support to this final version of the law. In December 2010, we discussed the proposal for a Service Act in the first reading where observations and proposals were addressed to the bill. We are pleased that the promoter has accepted the comments and proposals of the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, which were supported and on our part by the Club of Representatives of the HNS-HSU. The comments and suggestions of some other clubs have been accepted, so now in the final version we have more precise, more quality and clearer definitions of this law. Parts of European legal terminology have also been transposed into the law. This law is in line with the 2006 Services Directive and has laid down general principles to comply with other specific rules for service activities to which the law applies. The law prescribed a simplification of procedures and conditions for accessing and carrying out service activities. This fact should contribute to the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia because our country's economy as well as the European economy is made up of service activities. And now I would just repeat or expand a little bit of the data that speaks about the positive effects of the liberalisation of the EU service market, some of us have heard from the predecessors or the secretary of state, so here's the information. The service sector generates about 70% of GDP in most EU member states. Services in the domain of the Services Directive deliver about 40% of GDP. investments in the service sector create around 60% of new jobs. In 2010, the liberalisation of the market for services contributed to GDP growth from 0.6% to 1.5% in the EU Member States, employment around 0.3%, wages about 0.4%, as well as a reduction in service prices. Here are all the reasons, i.e. these are all the facts that make us happy and we really expect that, with the application of this law, better days for our Croatian economy and that is why the HNS club, HSU, supports this final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75717	Thank you. SDP representative club Mr. Representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75718	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. This is a very important law for the Croatian economy and it will greatly determine the fate of our economic development in a large part of our economic development and many economic operators when it comes to services or in this segment of the economy, and in general in that segment of the service provision. This law actually regulates the provision of services on the territory of the Republic of Croatia of all those entities from the EU or from the European Economic Area, as defined by this law, which will now compete equally with our entities and be able to provide equal services on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why he's important to the economic life of the Republic of Croatia. But it also has its second dimension, it will allow all our service providers, therefore domicile, Croatian, to also offer their services and provide in the European economic field, therefore, on the EU market. Of course, this law is an obligation under the Implementation Plan relating to the Services Directive, and this is one of the activities, or one of the directives that regulates the area in a very short period of time, which is only adopted in 2006 and has been applied in the EU countries since the end of 2009. This is an opportunity for Croatia, so even though we are late to join the EU, some have entered long before us for years, we are entering only now, but as far as this single market is concerned, when it comes to services, we are practically not too late because other EU countries have now started to apply it a year and a half ago. Therefore, there is also a chance and a chance that in some way in that segment we will be side by side with other EU countries. So this is a new directive, new rules. They are new to us, but they are very new to other EU members too, so it is an opportunity and a chance for us. The EU and the European Economic Area are based on the functioning of the common market in all its segments. In the segment of free movement and persons and capital and goods, but also service. And precisely because it refers to the free movement of services, which is why it was necessary to regulate this in this way and that is why it is important not only to pass this law but to prepare for its application. There were words here that it was a roof law because this law and application of so-called liberalisation services would surely prompt changes and other sets of other laws. This is indeed a complex law, it is principled because it is such but is very important for Croatia's economic life, and we see from some data very important for economic life in the European economic area, therefore, in the EU. Some 70% of GDP in most of the EU is now being achieved in the service sector. And that's why services are very important in the EU, so we're getting more and more. Once upon a time when we were mostly a agricultural country, most of our economic activity, most of our employment was related to the primary sector, and later we went into industrialization, and more and more went into the secondary sector. However, it is now increasingly working in the tertiary sector, the service sector, and also with us. And this is an opportunity for us in this segment not only to be willing to accept the competition that is inevitably coming to us but also to compete in other EU countries, and that is what special attention should be paid to. So this law regulates a very important segment of economic and political life in Croatia. We begin with its application on the day of entry into the EU, and that is how things stand on December 1st 2013. Therefore, we too are in full force, so this law is beginning to take effect and we must be ready for its application. So I support this law absolutely, it can certainly have absolutely positive effects on the Croatian economy. However, as in other cases it has not been done here, at least we do not know a good but clear analysis, which is why all the consequences of the application of this law, as are the consequences of EU accession. Not to question whether this should be done, no, but rather to know what will happen to us when we enter and to prepare as best as possible when we join the EU. So some swat analysis should also be done when it comes to this law, so what has been happening in Croatia since 1 July 2013 in the field of the service market and how to prepare our businessmen to be ready for this common market. Of course, the common market is in the field of services and opportunities and a threat to our economy and our people involved in providing services. The threats so much that they are exposed to the competition of all those who do so today in Europe, in the European Union, they will have to be ready for competitiveness, but this is also an opportunity for us to compete with them, that our entrepreneurs are equally providing their services in Croatia today or not providing them, that they can provide them equally tomorrow and give them to other Member States of the European Union as a permanent export product. It is good that our entrepreneurs will not have to go out as well as entrepreneurs from the European Union do not have to, if they can say so to register or stay in Croatia, so that our entrepreneurs do not have to do so in the European Union, but can simply act freely in the territory of the European Union and throughout the European Economic Area. This is an opportunity to take advantage of, this is a chance to take advantage of our entire sector, which provides services in any segment which is, of course, allowed by this directive, and therefore I think it is necessary for the Government and our respective ministries, in particular, the Ministry of Economy, but also the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, or together, and the Ministry and Government to create simply one programme of education, information and training of our economic operators dealing with the provision of services, which are treated with this law. So those services that they will be able to provide outwardly to prepare for the competition that is coming to Croatia, but on the other hand, to prepare them so that they can provide these same services outside, to take advantage of this opportunity provided by the European Union, so that our people, our entrepreneurs, our businessmen, who today operate business in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, can do the same tomorrow on the territories of other Member States of the European Union, so that this is an opportunity for a new economic momentum and for new economic development. Of course, the opportunity to start faster investment, and without investments there is no economic development, because we are aware that Croatia is unfortunately very poor, that all investments have fallen and that, in general, economic development and investment in Croatia are going to be the worst. Unfortunately, Croatia is also at the beginning of all statistics when it comes to economic recovery in Europe, and last year with Romania we held a glorious beginning, so we were last at the rate of economic growth. We've been without economic growth for three years, or with negative economic growth. This year we expect economic growth to be around 1.2%. This is not enough for our needs and with such economic growth negative as in recent years or with such a small positive of 1% this year, we are constantly lagging behind the environment, rather than lagging behind the European Union, and therefore everything needs to be done, of course, that so far a series of measures by the Government's economic policy have not produced the results of those taken, and especially those that have not been taken and are terribly lagging behind. This is an opportunity to come faster from abroad, to ensure faster development without a lot of administration, without the great difficulty of the initial ones, if I can say so, that business people, people from the business environment from the European Union who provide services to this law, are allowed to act simply, simply or simply. The information that speaks in the European Union that 60% of new jobs are open right in the service sector is also for us in this respect and encouraging and indicative because, given that a good part of business activity is taking place in our services, it is an opportunity for us to have more liberalisation in the market for services, new jobs, new jobs, because the fact is that Croatia has an enormous decline in unemployment in the last two years, and without employment growth, without new employment, there is no new income, there is no new standard and a better standard. The law stipulates which cases are not subject to the Services Act, or which services are excluded from this law, and it is good that they did not make the water economy manage and supply, as well as a number of other municipal activities, because some things that are important for not only economic but for the lives of people in our cities, municipalities and in the state should not be liberalised at all costs, especially when it comes to water and it is good that the waters are excluded from the liberalisation provided for by this law. However, these are provided for, or when it comes to social activities, health care, etc. We do not know why there is no education that is also not market activity for us, but a public service, a public money-financed service, should, therefore, be excluded from liberalisation in some way when it comes to the Law on Services, and this is also the case with the European Directive 123 of 2006. So since 1 July 2013, Croatia is a member of the European Union, the application of this law begins, we are exposed to the single market when it comes to providing services to those who want to provide services outside us and the chance for our entrepreneurs who want to do so in the members of the European Union. What I think, therefore, this law should be supported, it is a good law, it is an opportunity and a chance for the development of the Croatian economy, it is also an inevitability by entering the European Union, but what I think we should do anyway, but we should make further efforts, I say, the government and the corresponding ministry and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce that our entrepreneurs, that our economy, the part of the economy that is in the service sector, are able to be able to be competitive in a way to accept competition from the European Union, but also to be willing to offer their services on the European Union market, because this law allows this law without any administrative obstacles. In this sense, the law here provides that in Croatia the establishment of a single contact point which primarily serves as a service for providing information to all those who, as I at least see it, come to Croatia and want to provide services on the Croatian market, but it is necessary to establish an appropriate body or formal, informally which our entrepreneurs, our businessmen will educate, inform and prepare how they can offer their services on the European market and how we can in some way become competitive and not only in that sense when it comes to importing countries but also exporting services on the European Union market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75719	Thank you. Single rapture. Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75720	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The directive in question aims to remove trade barriers to the provision of services from Member States of the European Union or European Economic Area. The service law is important for the Croatian legal system since it is a horizontal roof law that has been passed for the first time in the Republic of Croatia and is fully governed by the service sector. Of course, the question of what is being governed by this Law is also asked. It allows for the right of free business space established on the territory of the Republic of Croatia for service providers from the Member States of the European Union under the same conditions as for citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The general right of business is the right of the service provider to establish a headquarters or some of the related organisational forms, such as a branch on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the free provision of cross-border services is arranged, and on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which implies the possibility of legal and natural persons registered to perform service activities in a Member State of the European Union, to provide services in the Republic of Croatia without the obligation to register business headquarters in our country. It is particularly important to stress that service providers with registered business headquarters in our country will be able to exercise the right to business and freedom to provide services in all other Member States of the European Union. It is also important to note that the establishment of an administrative structure for law enforcement is signed. This means setting up a national co-ordinator for administrative cooperation with other Member States of the European Union. The coordinators will coordinate the work of all state administration bodies and other bodies responsible for service activities in the area of law enforcement. When we talk about the application of the law then we must certainly say that, so the Service Act will allow the active space for the functioning of all structural bodies because it gives them a clear and democratic framework of equal opportunities with full respect and respect for the profession and the specific rules that govern this profession. And when we speak in conclusion then we can say that by removing obstacles to the free establishment and free provision of cross-border services, the preconditions for the successful integration of the Croatian service sector into the common European internal market will be created. The greatest benefit from free access to the European internal market will be small and medium-sized Croatian companies. The liberalisation of the service market will also contribute to the information and protection of consumers, security and quality of services, the repression of the gray economy, and the reduction of service prices, of course due to the far greater and more competitive developments that will take place. And, of course, as already stated here, this law is extremely important for the economy because it will therefore improve the conditions that have not even been competition that may appear on one side and on the other since we will become a member of the European Union in 2013. The basic objective of the Services Directive, and hence the Service Act, by stimulating international cooperation and trade, and by simplifying business for small and medium-sized enterprises, by establishing a single contact point as a central portal, provides the same service and assistance as providing assistance to businesses in carrying out all administrative procedures from the establishment of businesses to obtaining different permits and certificates and other necessary business documents both for domestic and foreign service providers. Accordingly, all relevant information will be available through a single contact point in such a way that the general information will provide qualified employees of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and that it will be able to carry out all administrative procedures for access and service activities performed, but also a single contact point does not solve administrative matters but is a high professional relationship with the competent authorities, so it is important to use those systems or institutes already formed with this objective and which have proven professional experience as the Centre for Business Information. Following all of this, it is evident that the decision-making and planning of a single contact point has been put into a lot of effort, interdisciplinary thinking, and we believe that both the most appropriate solution has been found in the current situation. I support the Final Proposal for the Service Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75721	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75722	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary and Associates. Here is a lot being said about the Service Act, and it is clear that this is also a law that we are harmonising with the European Union, with legislation. We are harmonising the law with the European Parliament's 2006 directive on services on the internal market, aimed at liberalising the market for services through the abolition of trade barriers, and at enabling the right of business creation and freedom to provide cross-border services on the internal market of the European Union. The Services Directive regulates the right to free establishment in accordance with Article 43. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In addition, the Services Directive lays down rules in the administrative simplification of the procedure for accessing and carrying out service activities, establishing a single point of contact for services and administrative cooperation between Member States of the European Union. It is also good to repeat this, the common internal market of the European Union is based on four fundamental freedoms, freedom of movement of persons, freedom of movement of capital, goods and freedom of movement of services. It means an extremely important segment of the European Union's common internal market. Elimination of barriers to the development of service activities, both in the Member States of the European Union and in our country, is of real importance to strengthen European and economic integration, and to promote balanced and sustainable economic and social development. The service law will transpose the basic provisions of the directive into the Croatian national legislation, thereby establishing a general legal framework for services covered by that Directive. This will ensure compliance of the rules for those activities with the Services Directive. Since the service market is very dynamic, at the same time it will provide rules for new services that appear on the market. The service sector, as we have heard, is a major driver of economic growth in Europe and is achieving around 70% of gross domestic product, in most European Union members. With us at 40% level, it is exactly one big opportunity for the Croatian economy, for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, as well as for investors from the European Union. Both our and the economy of the European Union are mostly service-oriented, it is visible from the share of services in GDP, with a trend of growth, so this trade liberalisation in this context will represent an important factor of economic growth in the Republic of Croatia, including the expected inflow of foreign investment, the expected creation of new jobs, and further development of trade relations. For all this, I support the adoption of the Service Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75723	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Ruđer Friganovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75724	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's just a little clarification. So it was just since autumn that note that something like that should be done. Since the autumn of this year, the Ministry of Economy and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce have been in motion means the process of education of the economy and we believe that this really is the right time to get involved in the implementation of this new concept of law and directive with services in the European Union. I believe that this fact means an explanation of what makes it of the Republic of Croatia's interest to become a part of the European Union. The European Union, along with all the difficulties it faces little by little, integrates its space, means in the area of goods, capital and people have already done more or less everything in terms of liberalisation, it is moving to the area of services. Croatia cannot be out of it. The Croatian area of service is the European Union, and Croatia in that part, as it has been said here, needs to take advantage of its comparative advantages and try on those comparative advantages and services that it has to actually build its competitiveness on the European single market for services and this is a really good start. It is a completely new concept that is new in Europe, it will certainly be in that part of implementation and needs for repairs, but I really believe that at the right moment we have become involved and I thank everyone for the constructive discussion we have had today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75725	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75726	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Service Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 669 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. A businessman. I am voting on the final proposal of the Service Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final proposal of the Service Act was adopted unanimously by 102 votes, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75727	Next item - - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the University of Dubrovnik Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 823 Proposer of the Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, education, science and culture. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Ivana Mrkonjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75728	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me briefly explain to you the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the University of Dubrovnik Act. The law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village was established by the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village as a public institution in the area of agriculture, food and rural development. On the day of the entry of the centre into the court register, the facilities for the southern cultures of Dubrovnik stopped working, and its assets, assets, rights and obligations, jobs and employees took over the centre as... A follower. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As an internal establishment unit of the centre, the Institute for Olives of Southern Culture has been established, which continued to carry out the work that was carried out until the establishment of the centre by the South Culture Centre of Dubrovnik, and the employees who worked until the establishment of the centre in the South Culture station have been deployed to jobs within the Olives and Southern Culture Office. The Institute conducts research activities in the field of olive industry of southern cultures, vegetables, flora, physico-chemical testing and determination of the quality of olive oil and wine, as well as soil analysis. In view of the activities carried out by the Institute, and given that it is the same establishment unit of the Dubrovnik-based centre, it has been shown in practice that the Institute would better carry out its activities within the organisation structure of the University of Dubrovnik. Since the University of Dubrovnik's mission is to contribute to the local, national and international community through education and scientific research, and taking into account the activities of the Institute for Olives and Southern Culture and Universitys in Dubrovnik, the proposed transfer of business will contribute to the quality of the activities currently carried out by the Institute, enable better involvement of co-workers and university students in research projects, which will ultimately contribute to the development of the local community. By transferring the business unit, the university will take over 28 employees of the Department of Olivery and Southern Culture. Those employees will be deployed at the university for jobs at the newly established Institute for Olivery and Southern Culture, in accordance with the rules on the names of jobs and the coefficients of complexity of public service jobs. By the entry into force of this law, the university will also take over all properties that until the entry into force of the Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village were owned by the facility for the southern culture of Dubrovnik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75729	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75730	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the proposal for a law supplementing the University of Dubrovnik Law, which the HDZ Club will be pleased to support. It is clear from the reasons we heard from the secretary of state that the activity that is related to the southern culture, so that the home work of the former South Culture Station Dubrovnik will actually improve and raise to one higher level, the university level itself, the fact that it will integrate into Dubrovnik University, will actually achieve a higher level of education, and will allow students above all, those interested in this area of action to engage actively and contribute to the development of local communities, but not just local communities, I would say more widely. This institution was an independent institution, before it became part of the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, and in this way it was also lost legal personality. I'm glad the government also recognized the ministry that they recognized the importance of this institution and somehow gave it another status through this bill. And thus, in a way indirectly restored her that personality she had as a very important institution for Dubrovnik and for Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Something else will be resolved except for all this that has already been said by the ministry, and this is also the issue of building a student home in Dubrovnik. The very fact that a stop for southern cultures will return to the cover of Dubrovnik University, and thus also its property as an independent institution, will allow the University of Dubrovnik to plan in a very attractive area in the city of Dubrovnik, as already foreseen by the city plan, so that it will build a project of a student home that is necessary for Dubrovnik University to live fully in the way it is appropriate and how it deserves the university, but also the city of Dubrovnik. How important this institution is also enough to say that in recent years a lot of entrepreneurs, farmers have decided to return to the country, have decided to return to the cultivation of southern cultures, above all, to olive growing and winemaking. Which is extremely important for the Croatian south, for the Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Here on Peljesac alone, I think there are 87 private winemakers who have really perfected this activity at one of the highest levels, and certainly in this work it has contributed significantly to the work of the South Culture Station. The station which meant a very, very clear advisory role and which enabled all these people who deal with these extremely important branches, therefore also winemaking and wine production and olive oil production, has provided them with a very important educational level that has brought them to the top of the highest quality producers and wine and olive oil. So this is extremely important for Dubrovnik University and the city of Dubrovnik and for the entire Dubrovnik-Neretva County because it will certainly improve even more significantly through scientific and research work that is constantly present at the university, it will also ensure progress in these professions that are important for the development of the economy, the overall economy in the city of Dubrovnik and in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Here is why I do not want to last again, I think this is an extraordinary move by the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia which we welcome and which we will, of course, support in the vote because we believe that this is an even better solution to the status of the former South Culture Station, and tomorrow, a newly established institute within the University of Dubrovnik and the Institute of Southern Culture and Oliveism. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75731	Thank you. SDP representative club, Ms. Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75732	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. And the SDP club of course supports this proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law establishing the University of Dubrovnik. In fact, the educational standard should be a high priority because it is the future of every country. The proposed law provides for the separation of the business unit of the Institute of Olives and Southern Culture from the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village and its transfer to the organisational structure of the University of Dubrovnik, more specifically the newly established Institute of Olivery and Southern Culture. Such implementation will increase the standard of education, i.e. strengthen the activities of the Institute of Olivery and Southern Culture to the benefit of the city and the entire county. As far as the University of Dubrovnik is concerned, it is one of the youngest founded in 2003 on the basis of the long tradition of the password known "Always the first, always better – the semper primus, semper melior". The first graduates of the Master's degree in Croatia are coming right from Dubrovnik University. It has letters from 15 undergraduate university studies and 1 undergraduate vocational study and 10 graduates and 5 undergraduate postgraduate doctoral studies. The history of higher education and scientific research in Dubrovnik begins in the distant past. In particular, this refers to maritime, social and natural sciences. Remember, in 1624, the Jesuits founded Collegium Ragusium, and 30 years after the Senate of the Dubrovnik Republic, he declared it a public high school where art and natural science were studied. This is where our genius Ruđer Boskovic was educated, in the year of Ruđer Boskovic. Colllegium Ragusium is the predecessor of modern Dubrovnik higher education. The establishment of the Faculty of Marines and then the Faculty of Tourism and Foreign Trade begins a new period of contemporary education in the city of Dubrovnik. In order to further promote the role of higher education and science in Dubrovnik, in the spirit of the signed Charter of DISEC, the Rectorate of the University of Dubrovnik launched a vision of the development of higher education and science in Dubrovnik and a laboratory was created for the establishment of the University of Dubrovnik which was founded in 2003. Since then, to this day the University of Dubrovnik continues its active development, new study directions, construction units are being established, and the restoration of the central campus building is under way, all so that Dubrovnik can one day bear the merited title of university work. It's our vision of development in the city of Dubrovnik, and I hope all of us here in the Parliament. The city's efforts are going in this direction, acting to improve the standard of education from the earliest kindergarten age to programmes outside of standards, for example. By introducing Mens NTC programs to student age. The city actively advocates that every student is allowed to study regardless of parenting opportunities, it is a Dubrovnik student credit model that allows every student, or every student, to stand a chance. By adopting this law, the Institute for Olives of Southern Culture, which is now part of the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, will join the University of Dubrovnik together with employees, but with the belonging properties belonging to the former station for the southern culture of Dubrovnik. This accession ultimately provides an opportunity for Dubrovnik to get such a desired and necessary dormitory for the accommodation of students and teaching staff. All of these are predispositions that Dubrovnik of course acquires the possibility of more students, which is a further assumption for the opening of new study programs and suits, or that this all leads to the realization of our vision, which is Dubrovnik University City, Ruđera Bošković, Marina Držić, Ivan Gunducila, Luke Sorkočević and many others. It is also necessary to touch on the facts of what this will mean to the very development of science in the field of olive growing, southern cultures, vegetables, flora. The introduction of new modern programmes creates a new tradition because taking into account the activities of the Institute for Olivery and Southern Culture at the University of Dubrovnik, the proposed transfer of the business unit will contribute to a safer quality of the activities now carried out by the Institute, and will enable better involvement of the co-workers and students of the University of Dubrovnik in research projects, which will ultimately contribute to the development of our community. The University of Dubrovnik mission is, in fact, like all universities, to contribute to the local national and international community through education and scientific research at the level of excellence. The University of Dubrovnik is part of a network of conferences for marketing, management, consumer behaviour and retail research. The city of Dubrovnik is ready to be a partner and is always in such international projects because they enable, they can provide a scientific basis and actually get answers to key issues for sustainable economic development or tourism in Dubrovnik. One way to achieve the mission is to monitor the needs of the economy and the social community to develop new curricula and programmes that are the starting point in Dubrovnik tradition and culture, to encourage scientific training of co-workers and to encourage the active involvement of students in research procedures. I mentioned earlier the possibility of a dormitory. In fact, it should be noted, Dubrovnik was too expensive from various surveys of students. Of course, it made it difficult to study in Dubrovnik, which made it difficult to choose Dubrovnik, Dubrovnik University as a place to study. We have another problem, which is that students who find an apartment must move out of it on June 1st because of the tourist season. I hope this big problem can be solved by adopting this law. We in Dubrovnik are actively implementing the idea of development, the development of a university campus in the area from Old Town, Pila to Boninov. Currently, works are being performed on an old hospital building located near the Old Town, and within the first degree of building a university campus. Dubrovnik has conditions for the top organisation of space, integration of academic institutions in one of the most beautiful parts of the city where parks and forests along the coast dominate. The location along the historical core provides an additional possibility for Dubrovnik to become one of the most attractive destinations for study, while being known worldwide as a tourist destination. The development of academic institutions is a prerequisite for Dubrovnik to become a home and foreign student because it is those who could revive the city and beyond the season, and it also contributes in fact to extra-seasonal tourism. For all of this, it is important to develop capacity to accept a growing number of students in Dubrovnik as well as to develop the institution itself. Thus, the adoption of this law contributes to both. The University would also take over 28 employees of the Olive and Southern Culture Institute who became the Institute of Olivery and Southern Culture. This, of course, encourages the scientific training of current employees and associates, but at the same time encourages the active involvement of students themselves in research projects. Employees of the present institution will thus become teaching staff over time, of course the University of Dubrovnik, and this opens up the possibility of developing new directions from these scientific areas. Finally, I can say that this addition of the Law on the Establishment of the University of Dubrovnik and the accession of the Institute for Olivery and Southern Culture of the University of Dubrovnik to achieve numerous advantages, make new assumptions for the development of the University of Dubrovnik itself, but of course the city and Dubrovnik-Neretva County. The University of Dubrovnik will activate scientific research related to olive growing but will establish a laboratory for research on wines and oils, which is why our Dubrovnik-Neretva County is famous. The possibility of launching a new professional study in such areas is created, in the area of agriculture, agronomy and warfare. And what is very important is I repeat, Dubrovnik will finally receive a dormitory which will increase the number of students, and of course also student programs. I would stress here when we talk about students problems with an important regime for foreign students. It's a long complex procedure to get a temporary stay. Namely, the request for a temporary stay must be submitted to the nearest consular office per place of residence, and at the same place the approval of the stay must also be taken over. It happens so that for example. student request for stay in New York or Berlin, and the approval is obtained after he has already arrived in Dubrovnik. Now visas are issued for a period of 9 months as long as the lectures take place, which means that the student passes the procedure for each year as if he were looking for the first temporary stay. Everyone is in the best interest of every country to attract as many foreign students as possible. I am convinced that other highly educated institutions have an interest in accepting foreigners, foreign students and creating international university centres. I will also mention that the University of Dubrovnik has made a major step and contribution in the area of stone farming, which is due to the technological and business innovation centre for mariculture "MARIBIC" which was founded in 2008. It contributes to raising the competitiveness of the Croatian mariculture industry. We can assume that this new scientific institute in the field of olive industry and southern cultures will also lead to the integration and development of small economies in the Bay of Maloston, but also in the region as a whole. All of this will ultimately mean the economic development of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, which is based on the potential development of agriculture, olive growing, viticulture, mariculture, but it is possible to develop both production and decoration and other plants. From all of this, colleagues and colleagues can conclude that, in the far south for the benefit of all Croatia, it is necessary to continue investing in the development of higher education, research laboratories from which active scientific work will be implemented in practice and to stimulate the economic development of the wider region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75733	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75734	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, State Secretary at the Ministry. Dubrovnik, an old town, 2600 students at the university, so an old town of young educated people. This is the intention, it is an intensities and it really is the way it should be and that is why the HDSSB club will also support this legislative proposal to supplement the University of Dubrovnik Law, with the final bill of law, which actually turns the Institute of Olivery and Southern Culture into the Institute of Olivery and Southern Culture with its 28 employees, space and all others joining the University of Dubrovnik. One university of one of those five to say sea universities, starting from Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, Split to Dubrovnik, to our Croatian south. So indeed in the best interest and faith of the HDSSB club will support this legislative proposal. It is a good political example here in Parliament when such extensive, detailed and beautiful choirs or as the SDP and Mr Matusic say in Slavonia, in the same interest, in the same way, and here is when it is, for example. Some theme from our Slavonia, for example The law on the legalisation of agricultural facilities then HDZ representatives, the HSS do not raise their hands to legalise agricultural facilities, which is for the purpose and interest of all, regardless of party membership, farmers in Slavonia. The University of Dubrovnik was founded in 2003 on the basis of a long tradition that dates back to the 17th century. At present, the university has the permission of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports of the Republic of Croatia to conduct 15 undergraduate university studies and 1 undergraduate vocational study and 10 graduate studies and 5 undergraduate postgraduate doctoral studies, all of which are said by about 2600 students. It always reminds me of this information and Dubrovnik young people to a city in France called Exam Provence, which is also an old town, but with a large number of students, one living and lively university town, not great but here it reminds me of Dubrovnik. Slavonski Brod, which is twice the population of Dubrovnik, unfortunately has no university or who is thinking, although I have warned here ten times from this pay phone that a change of the university network should be considered because the only land study other than Zagreb's main, central university, is Osijek. I speak on land, and these five seas, therefore, universities, conditionally speaking to the sea. When we talk about the size of cities, then clearly it's not the only condition and what the university is founded on or not. However, we need to know that Slavonski Brod is also a border town and that because of this relationship and attitude towards Slavonski Brod and the development of a network of higher universities is established University of Brcko, University of Orasje and later there in Bihac on the other side. So the towns that are smaller and have no traditions have universities, and then our students from this Posavina area are even going to high school in Brcko and Oresje you know it well, and are also studying via Sava, on the right bank of the hall, so in Brcko District or in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why don't they take seriously the idea of starting a university in Slavonski Brod? Where's the initiative missing from that? It is known that in Slavonski Brod there is a university with three studies: management, engineering, agriculture. It is known that in Slavonski Brod, the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Osijek and the Faculty of Teachers with two classes: class education and preschool education. It is known that Slavonski Brod University has prepared directions with permission from the Ministry of Construction, Electrical Engineering and Higher Medical School Primacy, Primacy. It is also known that there is only a little work to be done in Brod in space, equipment and development of experts so that in 5 to 10 years Slavonski Brod would have a university that would be proud of Slavonia and pride in Croatia. Let's say in medical terms, you have three regular professors at Slavonski Brod General Hospital, then you have three professors, assistant one, a doctor of science five, and external associates, professors, doctors three. From this one can be born the core of an institution called the High Medical School primacy, the direction of primacy. Despite all this government decision and clear compliance and full compatibility with the ruling and here is the opposition and here we are expanding to say, simply this is the extension of the University of Dubrovnik to the Institute of Olivery and Southern Culture as it is called. Although I think that olivery and southern culture can also have the University of Split and the University of Zadar and Pula, because it is one, these are cultures that are from Savudrija to Molunta and Vitalina equally developed everywhere. So, from the north of our Adriatic Sea to the southernmost point of the Ostr. I have reported for this debate just to warn myself that I do not know which times the Ministry and State Secretary and Minister and the public have this particular problem, which we have been talking about for a long time, and this is exactly the need for the 800,900 inhabitants of Slavonia and Baranja, and this part that does not belong to these 5 counties, which is Novska, Daruvar, Grubisno Polje, etc. which would then increase that region to a million inhabitants. So, given the existence of 5 universities on our Adriatic coast, it's not burning, it's not just that it's not burning, but we're asking for serious reflection on what I'm talking about, which is the University of Slavonski Brod. We'll be in, so we'll vote yes, we'll vote for our Dubrovnik armpits. But let's give it one more time to discuss this seriously, especially with a regional self-government that's compatible with the state administration. Therefore, HDZ, HSS and SDSS etc. let us once agree and set deadlines that could give birth to another higher education institution in the Republic of Croatia for which there really is a need and which, given the situation of the transition, routes, so that the border city towards Bosnia and Herzegovina becomes an important university in the Republic of Croatia, as is important for us to become our Dubrovnik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75735	Thank you. Three corrections. First Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75736	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I have to correct my colleague Grubisic. In fact, HDZ and I personally made it clear that I would raise my hand to legalise illegal and agricultural facilities through this Law on the legalization of illegal buildings. So it's not true that we don't support what's in Slavonia. What's more, we're just the opposite of supporting everything that's good for Slavonia. But I am sorry specifically that you did not support the construction of the Peljesac Bridge – the mainland, and we support the bridge through Drava and all other projects that are Slavonia and we warmly support them and our Government and provides funds for the realization of these projects of colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75737	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75738	Thank you very much. Mr Matušić Article 209. Mr. Matušić was not here for the debate when his colleague Hebrang got up and told the HDZ club not to vote for an emergency procedure for legalising agricultural facilities, Mr. Matusic, and on the Pelješko bridge, you make him if you have money. There's no problem when you steal everything, so there's nothing more to make the Peles Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75739	Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75740	Well, here's the thing. counterpart Grubisic said MPs from Slavonia do not vote for the laws that matter for agriculture, and among other things you said about legalisation. Mr. Grubisic, that's really incorrect. At the same time, however, we cannot even support some of the proposals proposed by the HDSSB which are contrary to everything that is essentially not just what we should do, which is legalization. Namely, the Ministry of Environmental Protection of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has just proposed and was in the first reading where we will allow the legalization of the facilities and everything that was built without spatial plans, urban permits. Well, that's exactly what we're proposing right now. Why do you say that? And then you talk about disunity in Slavonia. So there must be disunity when you see you're saying something that absolutely has nothing to do with what we're talking about, and plus you're still telling the truth. So who would be against legalization? Well, it is the Government of the Republic of Croatia that proposes that everything is legally legal now, which has so far been built in one way or another, and that it is possible to allow agricultural economies and small economies and all those economies that have facilities, which have not been legalised so far. Therefore, let us be unique in this conclusion, but let us not present the data incorrectly and demean both individuals and representatives and people who are indeed for these projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75741	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75742	... Don't turn my microphone off. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] I have a megaphone. I'll use it again. So, you're the one who's making all the mistakes of Article 209 because two months ago, we sent the Law on the legalization of agricultural facilities by emergency procedure. So before the government and before your thinking and thinking, and you didn't adopt it. And then don't say it's different. That's right. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75743	This is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure of correcting an incorrect assumption. Give it to Boro Grubisic once. And correcting the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75744	... And I'm going to correct my colleague from the club, because I knew that when they called, they would try to argue on this. [[Specially enabled.]] It's just that it's not the same, that you didn't support the Law on Legalization of Objects, because we're still discussing it because it's going into another procedure. However, when a colleague Grubisic spoke of the lack of equal treatment between Slavonia and Baranja and Slavonian warlords, farmers, when it came to legalising agricultural facilities in relation to some other parts of the Republic of Croatia, thought first of all about the fact that our proposal for legalisation of agricultural buildings and buildings and buildings predicted that this legalisation should be carried out under conditions that are acceptable to Slavonian peasants, not according to the conditions that are now being proposed. If the state could forgive 11.3 billion kuna for shipbuilding and turn it into a public debt that we will all repay, and those who did not participate in the borrowing, then the same state would have to be able and able to legalise agricultural buildings to Slavonian farmers according to the model that some other countries have done so. Legalisation of objects under this law as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia will cost Slavonian peasants 13 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75745	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75746	And we suggested that it be... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75747	Okay, thank you very much. You haven't corrected an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75748	Therefore, if 11 billion can be allocated for shipbuilding, it can also be for Slavonia, and then it is an equal attitude towards all citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75749	HNS representative club, HSU, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75750	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Pensioners, I would like to say at first that we welcome every initiative aimed at strengthening the scientific, educational capacities of Croatian universities, and the better use of those infrastructure elements of the scientific and educational system that belongs to higher education, as well as the efforts to include some other elements of some other systems in universities and to contribute to their development. In this sense, we need to remind ourselves of a few facts. When speaking specifically about the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the University of Dubrovnik Act. The South Culture Station in Dubrovnik has built its reputation, I would say, in a specific area of agriculture throughout the decades. When the Croatian Parliament adopted new regulations on the proposal of the Government in 2009 and 2010, the South Culture Station in Dubrovnik became only part of the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, voices were heard that protested because the concept was thus set up. The South Culture Station has become one of 7 institutions within the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, so I will remind you that it is also the Office for soil and land conservation, Institute for Seeding and Dispersion, Institute for Plant Protection, Institute for Vinening, Wine and Fruit Production, Institute for Agricultural Production, and Institute for Agricultural Economics. The question arises what will happen to other institutions, how they will be treated since some of them are also located in university centres. Do they have scientific capacity? Do these institutions also have scientific and research capacities that can be included in the development of universities? In this particular case, Dubrovnik, in some other cases. I will remind the South culture station one address where many agricultural producers, but also ordinary citizens, as well as winemakers and oilers, could receive relevant information about the quality of their products, but also advice, very practical advice that cultures grow, or plant and how to improve production, specifically what is of particular importance to wine and oil. Here, the proposal argues that this change of the University Act in Dubrovnik will contribute to the quality of the activities now carried out by the Institute, and will enable better involvement of co-workers and students of the University of Dubrovnik in research projects, which will ultimately contribute to the development of the local community. The question arises whether the purpose of this amendment to the law is to help the institution, as it writes here, or to help the university develop, because unfortunately there is no evidence here that joining the Institute, or turning it into a scientific research institution of the University of Dubrovnik, will really change something in the existing system of functioning, except that 28 new people will be employed. Unfortunately, we don't know what the profile of these people is, we don't know how many doctors science is, how many masters, how many engineers, how many people are working on research projects, how much they're working on experimental farming, how much they're actually working in greenhouses, or nurserys. We don't know anything about it at this time, and that would be valuable information, because if that institution had that kind of capacity, then it would probably be thought that the first next step would be to set up a study that would have some kind of connection with the institution that this is about, because that institution would be called the Olive and Southern Culture Institute, the Olive and Southern Culture Institute. But let's look at what all of the University of Dubrovnik, this young university of ours records the 8th year of existence, and which should provide any kind of support, but also real substantive support from the state level, that it really develops in accordance with the needs of its city, its own region, economy, agriculture, but also what my colleague Bonačić told us about was the possibility that Dubrovnik could develop as an international university city, so you will come to the existing, that among the existing pre-graduate, graduate and postgraduate studies there is not a single one that is complemented by the activities of this future institute. I will remind you, it is about studies of aquaculture, shipbuilding, economy, electrical communication technologies in the sea, media and culture of society, nauticals, marine technologies of yachts and marinas, business economies, applied business computing, accounting, restoration and conservation of artefacts from wood, paper, textiles, metals and ceramics, and sisterhood studies. They're undergraduate studies. Diplomatic studies are economics, electronic and communication technologies in the maritime sector, then mariculture, media, public relations, maritime relations, business economy with tourism, international trade and marketing, business accounting, restoration and conservation. And we also have something very interesting as the University of Dubrovnik develops postgraduate studies in areas of molecular bioscience, novelty biology, applied sciences about the sea, history of the population, seas, European integration, marketing management in tourism. These are therefore studies that can be attended today at the University of Dubrovnik. Unfortunately, we have not heard a word about whether there are concrete plans to open studies that will be complementary with the activities of the new institution that will become the University of Dubrovnik Institute of Science and Research. Unfortunately, we do not know whether and according to the Science Act, this science research institute in Dubrovnik is going to be able to team up as it is currently being run by the head of the office of the office of engineer. So in the entire corps of these issues remains a whole series of unexplained things. It is crucial that the University of Dubrovnik receive real support, real scientific and research capacities and that the fact that it gets by joining this institution, i.e. by turning it into a scientific and research institution within the university, is not just a place where external co-workers from somewhere else will only do scientific research and all other tasks that can be done at the Institute and involve the Institute in projects but rather that this institute must be in direct function of strengthening scientific and research, but also the educational capacities of the University of Dubrovnik. That's the point and that's the point, that's where you actually have to focus attention, but also concrete moves to strengthen the university's scientific, research and educational capacity. Unfortunately, it seems to me that for the time being, this will only be the annexation of an organisational part of the existing Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, which many so far have experienced as a service agency, i.e. an advisory service to producers of agricultural products, flowers, especially the part relating to the sale of bushes, transplants, flowers, fruit trees. So, that it will only be a formal solution, and that until we really strengthen the scientific and research capacity of this future institute we will have to wait. I hope that the ministry will help both arms to make this transition period as short as possible, to hire as many scientificly-oriented recruits as possible, but as well as a doctor who will be able to do just as well as participate in the work of the institute and in conducting a study course in newly established studies. Which one? We didn't hear that, and I don't think the proposer even knows because he didn't consult with the university's leadership at all. And that's one piece of information we really need here. For where you will be better supported than for the Croatian Assembly to stand behind the idea of the development of Dubrovnik as a university centre and that of an international university centre, but also for strengthening, the real strengthening of its scientific and educational capacities. We unfortunately don't see it from this, but we're giving it a chance, and in this sense as a club, we're going to support this proposal, but we're going to be very interested in asking in a year or two what happened to this solution. Just as we are interested in what will happen to the other 7 institutions that are currently operating within the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. Obviously, this concept did not come to life as soon as the prestigious South Culture Station in Dubrovnik was now to be separated from its composition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75751	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75752	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is not true that new 28 employees will be employed but employees who are now employees, employees of the current office of the former South Culture Station, and tomorrow the institute. So it's just about taking over, you don't need any new funds. So they are already secured through the institutional action of the institution so far. Secondly, Dubrovnik already acts as an international university centre. There's also American college, there's another private university with Dubrovnik University. And thirdly, it's not the ministry that's going to say what is the role of the institute within the university, but it's the university that has to design all the programs that are complementaryly going to take place at the university itself. It's a question for the university, and not at this time for the ministry. And the university according to my knowledge absolutely already has prepared programs and very simple and will easily fit this institute with its activity within the university.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75753	Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75754	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Let me get involved in this debate on the addition of the Law establishing the University of Dubrovnik. And here, if I may say so, I agree with this proposal because it's simply the integration of the scientific community under the organisation scheme of the University of Dubrovnik. With a closer look at the University of Dubrovnik since 2003, a number of organizational reconstructions have been carried out and have been able to create pre-graduate, graduate and post-graduate studies, and it seems to me that this solution to the integration of the Institute of Olive Engineering and Southern Culture in Dubrovnik, which becomes part of the University of Dubrovnik, thus becoming the Institute of Olive and Southern Culture, is a good organisational move and that the fact that the University of Dubrovnik is already numbering about 250 employees, of which 70 doctors of science will now get close to the figures of 300. And what is the fact and what should be said that Croatia has 2 types of universities. There is a University of Dubrovnik which is an integrated university like the one in Zadar and Pula, and there are universities such as Zagrebačko, Osijek, Rijeka, Split, which are slightly different organized. And this shows the mobility and fast solutions that are required in the teaching, and also the scientific part that seems very important to me, and some observations or doubts that this institute that is going to function within the university will not have an impact on future programs that we can't know right now because these programs are yet to be created. Because the vitality of every economy is precisely in the dynamics of creating what needs to be done. However, it is clearly indicated here that it refers to 2 products in particular and that it is olive growing and vineyarding which will be referred to as the institute is the fact that it is one product that has always been excessive on the eastern coast of the Adriatic Sea from Roman times to this day, but it has to be known to produce what quality can result in competition with other countries. When it comes to winemaking, we know that it is very successful, and when it comes to olive growing lately, Croatia has a world product in olive industry that can deal with any country that produces olive oil from Istria to Dubrovnik, and new competences, new knowledge, new opportunities in scientific knowledge itself, and if it is transferred to teaching will be even better. Let's just say when it comes to olive growing, it's just some facts that even some olivers don't use in our country. Let's just say when the olive is in bloom, everyone thinks that the olive class doesn't need water. The Israeli scientific community determined that if there was no water and no food, olives would reject a fruit that could provide for further production. Thus, scientific competence is extremely important here, and in this entire technology of production and preservation of olive oil but also there are many secrets that have just helped the scientific community to come to that knowledge. It is even more secret when having around a sortiment when having an indigenous variety and giving special effects in a particular area. In this regard I experience this merger quality to organize the entire community and I believe that we can expect from the University of Dubrovnik very quickly and which teaching program in this area either in pre-graduate studies or in graduate school. In any case, today we have heard a lot about the development dimensions of this university and new programmes and postgraduate studies and it should be commended and about 2,000 700 students who study this is already a great capacity. These are all the facts that give me the right to conclude and which I fully agree with the promoter to supplement the University of Dubrovnik Law that this Institute of Olivery and Southern Culture also becomes part of this institution. That's why I support it, and I'll vote yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75755	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Drago Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75756	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Nevio, you said that this law that it was a circumnavigation of the scientific community probably in Dubrovnik you thought. However, when you talk about it now if we come back from a year ago, a year and a half ago, when the institution of the Center for Agriculture, Food, the village was then thunderous to join this office as well as the other laws that my colleague Beus listed, one of them is certainly the Department of Seeding in Osijek, which I know much better about the staff and did not pass to the university, is there a number of doctors, magistrates, etc. And the much higher capacity of that institution is out of this. However, today when we hear from the HDZ Club representatives that the government has very cleverly proposed this same institution to enter the university, and also suggested a year or more ago that the institution move into the centre. The question arises, what is it that encourages this institution to be so quickly separated from that center? Is it because the student home will be opened on this basis, or is it another thing that this government and this resolution ministry do not have a network of universities in the Republic of Croatia, because we have five maritime and only two mainland ones? Is this government and this ministry also not having a vision of how and how colleges will be formed because this, too, these five sea colleges can also deal with this problem? Therefore, I think that science programs should be the basis for attaching or firing, and not for such a way without any explanation as it is in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75757	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75758	I would like a little..., I agree, you have now entered the sphere of the university development strategy and higher universities, but you should take one fact, that in the Croatian periphery there is no potential that can be worn and probably looking for the best solutions. It won't stop with today, it'll stop with tomorrow, from now on. It is one fact that we must raise awareness of as a Croatian society. You know that from the Mediterranean culture, knowledge went to the continent, and now we have a case that from Finland is coming back and yet the Mediterranean is always resilient and strong in this respect because there's something to do with it. Therefore, I would just like to warn that it depends on the potential and capacity that we have in a particular environment and its capacity to organize and then present it. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75759	Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75760	In your debate, you mentioned several times the importance of quality and science and experts of scientists who play a role in the assessment of conformity actually ensuring quality. However, I would remind you that the roof institution of Croatian quality infrastructure, or the Croatian accreditation agency, is in front of a financial breakdown because of the funding model, because everything she does through her work on the market makes her go to the state treasury and they do not have those scientists, experts, experts who you spoke of from what to pay. And unless the government urgently does something to resuscitate the situation, since the agency's budget is exhausted for the next 6 months, there will be no more maintenance of the laboratory accreditation system in the Republic of Croatia, their surveillance that puts the already closed chapter 1- Freedom of Movement of Goods at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75761	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75762	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I volunteered for an individual debate over the fact that I heard a lot about only Dubrovnik University, but not so much about this topic today, which is the addition of the Law establishing the Dubrovnik University and specifically about the nature of joining the current Institute for Southern Cultures, which operates within the center of the Croatian Agriculture Centre of the University of Dubrovnik and actually establishing a new department within the University itself, which is the Institute for Southern Cultures. Therefore, I think it is clear to everyone that this is an extremely good move, a quality that will say I would mean a lot to both one institution and the other institution, and to Dubrovnik University and the former South Culture Station, and tomorrow the institute that was founded at the Dubrovnik University itself and the programs will certainly be designed, some of them are designed and the results will be very soon. But actually encouraged by what I heard I must say that I am sad to hear from the representatives of the SDP the way they talk about some investments in Dubrovnik, and that it obviously avoids mentioning when these investments are started, who started them, who funded them and who actually stood behind them specifically, so it was mentioned that the construction of a university campus in Dubrovnik and the very quick completion of a really old hospital building in Dubrovnik, here it is, and it is indeed for the University of Dubrovnik, a fundamental facility for the new University of Dubrovnik. But it was forgotten to say that the building began to be renovated in 2009, so in autumn 2009, in the difficult recession times, the Croatian government led Mrs Jadranka Kosor to separate hundreds of millions of kunas for the facility, in spite of all the difficulties that Croatian society along with all other countries, primarily Western Europe and developed countries of the world is going through difficulties. Despite all the difficulties that we are going through as a society and through which we went through at the end of 2009 the Croatian Government found enough resources because it recognized that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is indeed excellence, knowledge, education of the university and that is concrete evidence. So I'm sorry that a colleague from the SDP didn't have the strength to say that the stone is the cornerstone of this restoration of the Dubrovnik University, the campus was actually set up by Mrs. Jadranka Kosor and this government. And also when we're talking about the Bistrina Mariculture Centre, we should also say that this government was behind this project, as it was behind this project that I didn't want to talk too much about on behalf of the club, but now I'm going to say in this individual debate because I know the details of the talks from the student dormitory. It is precisely thanks to the understanding of the Croatian government, thanks to the understanding of Minister Cobankovic, who first started the talks on a possible new structure and thanks to the understanding of Minister Fuchs and his associates and thanks to the understanding of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and who was encouraged by the County of Dubrovnik-Neretvain, by Mr Dobroslavic and his associates who, together with the university, asked for the best model of the merger of this institution, the former Southern Culture Station and the University of Dubrovnik, where many problems are being solved, including the problem of resolving the construction of the student home. And this is the fact that this synergy of the actions of the Mayor of Dubrovnik-Neretva County of Mr. Dobroslavic with his associates, the ministry, and here some of us representatives participated in all these talks, in fact supported the agreements in the essence of the development of universities and raising the level of education in this area and participation in scientific and research projects, so through a university alone, which means absolutely one new quality and the very institution and everything that will benefit the entire community, both young people and farmers and all those dealing with Southern cultures, what is really very important to us. Just here, a few years ago he started this process of turning so-called. forest land in agricultural areas. The landscape in Dubrovnik-Neretva County is changing, but not a way that would now be inappropriate to that area. At times, these cultures were exclusively dealt with in that area. Let's just say that I mention the area of Korčula, when Korčula burns, when the elections of pine trees on Korčula are only then seen what was done until the middle of the 20th century, until before World War II, what was growing and how each and every small agricultural area was grown. Look at the dry walls that remain after the burned surfaces, but not only on Korčula but also on Pelješac and on all other islands, in Šipan, unfortunately there is still a lot left behind but people are increasingly returning to these fundamental cultures that are truly important, which also mean the culture of life. These are Mediterranean cultures that clearly culture olive oil or wine culture, viticulture, all the foundations of our civilization. Therefore, in this positive sense, the landscape has changed in recent years and we are indeed witnessing the return of people to these cultures, and therefore this rise to the university level of this institute, tomorrow the institute today, an extremely important, important one, is precisely because it will benefit all these people and, of course, through education and through the inclusion of students, will contribute to the scientific and research sense. And in this sense, I had a need to point out how important this move is and how commendable this understanding that came across in all these institutions and finally in the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that came before us. Here I think I've responded to a larger series of unknowns that appeared during the debate, but certainly others will be answered by the ministry's representative as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75763	Thank you. Three replicas. First Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75764	My colleague Matušić, you were talking about the importance of the Olive and Southern Culture Institute which we, personally speaking on behalf of the club, therefore affirmably accepted. When you're talking about institutions and institutions that are important to the Republic of Croatia and in that care of yours and your Prime Minister, then let me know if you know what's going on with the BC Institute and how the BC Institute disappeared and what's with the Land of the Stočar Selection Centre in the Križevci, mainly in Rugvica, to whom it belonged and to whom you sold it. It's a concern for institutions, institutions, institutes and all that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75765	Mr. Agent Iron Flego, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75766	Comrade Matušić, when you were lighting up some unknowns, then I think you gave some unknowns the wrong light because I would like to remind you when the Dubrovnik University came into existence, and I would certainly like to remind you that the construction of the campus began at that time. I would certainly like to remind you that your current mayor, and then the Minister of Health, along with the mayor, worked at the university's hospital. I would certainly like to remind you that the government sold the tobacco station and secured the money for the construction of the dormitory and for the reconstruction of the hospital and at that time there were 30 and some million left for you in 2004 because we did not want to do anything at the end of the term. In addition, it seems to me that the issue of science, higher education of the institute is of strategic importance and there is no reason for individual parties to compete with their particular political interests who was more important or who was first. It is much more important that something should happen than who made it happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75767	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75768	I thank my colleague, Flego, but it seems that you've overlooked some things or you're not well-informed or you didn't know. The creation of the case itself that started in '98. In 2003, when we were in power in Dubrovnik, we were in HDZ, and you know it. But I agree, I agree that it was, of course, a joint project and that there was no partying and that it was supported by all relevant factors and political and other factors that were crucial to the creation of the university itself. But it's not true that the rebuilding of the campus started when you said. The restoration of Campus began two years ago. I'm talking about an old hospital. The assignment also of the old hospital buildings did not run as you said because your then Minister of Health later was a councilman in the county assembly wanted to single out one part of the old hospital to become part of the Institute "Andrija Stampar" so there were problems with county decisions until the authorities of the Croatian Democratic Community came again in 2005 and made this whole decision which was supported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on giving the land that belonged to the county giving for universities. So you don't know the facts that really happened. But I agree that's why I said that I'm saddened by the fact that some things are going on in their own way. It wasn't happening on its own. It took a lot of energy, a lot of will and a lot of desire. Those 30 million kunas you're talking about around the tobacco station they're missing in some other projects of the ministry. They didn't leave behind, and there wasn't any more, so they invested in the university itself. But most importantly, I say that despite the difficult times for the university to move forward, to build and that all will benefit especially from the city of Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County and I would say Croatian society as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75769	And Mr. Representative Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75770	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Matušić, speaking of how the Croatian Government and Mrs Jadranka Kosor invested 100 million kuna and laid a cornerstone, then I must remind you that it is not about Mrs Jadranka Kosor's money, she did not raise the loan but rather about the Croatian taxpayers' money of all Croatian citizens. And we're not against that money being invested in Dubrovnik. This is very welcome, but we are against it this is another example of how there is money for other parts of Croatia, and for Slavonia and Baranja there is no money. I'm warning you again, here's a chance that when we pass this Law on Legalization, you too, and especially HDZ representatives from Slavonia and Baranja, that the legalization of agricultural facilities should be implemented in a way that is free of charge for all farmers. Because if we could separate 11 billion kunas for shipbuilding, then the state can give up revenue of 10 or 13 billion kuna. And just so much more, I'd like to remind you when we're talking about 100 million kunas invested in Dubrovnik for this Campus. If we take into account the fact that during the term of the HDZ government in the last seven years as estimated to have stolen about 80 billion kunas, then share these 100 million kunas with it, so you would see that you did not steal all that money from Croatian citizens. 800 such investments and 800 foundation stones could be built.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75771	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75772	This part as a colleague said in stealing 80 million kuna really doesn't make sense to talk. Well, you're insulting all of us. What do you think we can't insult you? That we can't tell what you stole, and we don't know that you stole anything, it hasn't been proven, etc. But it really doesn't make sense, and it goes beyond normal behavior in the Croatian Parliament. But it's on your cheek and on your honor. And when you talk about 100 million kunas, of course they're from the state budget, of course they're from taxpayers. Of course, it is something the Croatian government has but that 100 million kuna could have been spent on something else. The Croatian government recognised here the interest of investing in the Dubrovnik University. Just as she recognized the interest, let's say that 120m euros is credited to the bridge over the Drava which is in Slavonia. And I don't mind. But it is sad to hear from you colleagues that you are against the Pelješac bridge that connects Croatia into one whole. Which you'd like the state budget to come only to Slavonia. Is that what you want? Is that right for you? This government is making sure that the entire Republic of Croatia develops evenly. We're extraterior. We come across another country to the city of Zagreb, across another country. And you already have a highway I don't know how many. Well, we're glad to. ... We like every success. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore,...... My friend, you were at HDZ and I remember what you were saying at HDZ. [[I can't hear you.]] Absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75773	Thank you. I'm closing the session. Aborting... I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 15.00 hours with debate Final draft law on the State Audit Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75774	We move to the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law establishing the University of Dubrovnik, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 823 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law establishing the University of Dubrovnik. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority 101 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75775	My colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you very much. We're continuing today's work. It is the sixth item of the agenda - Final draft law on the State Audit Office, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 667. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the proposal in boxes. When adopting this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading and amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Reports from the board's session have also been received. With us is State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Ms Ivana Maletic. Does she want an opening? Yeah. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75776	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's what I'm going to say in short, given that it's about the State's Audit Office Act, which is in the second reading. In fact, I will stress only the differences compared to the proposal for a law that was on 15 December 2010. What has been added and amended is that all the rights and obligations of authorised public auditors apply to them, to apply the rules as to civil servants. In addition, a report on the audit carried out, as well as reports on the implementation of the state budget and on these changes must be submitted to the Croatian Parliament. So now it's set until June 1st. It was not before that deadline in that way defined in the law itself. Professional conditions and years of working experience to be met are also added to the candidate for the main state auditor and deputy chief state auditor. So it was just personal reputation and professional experience before. Then we just based your discussion and your conclusions essentially added that you need a pre-graduate and graduate university study or an integrated pre-graduate and graduate university study. And what still matters is 12 years of work experience in the profession and reputation and professional experience in the field of public finances. So that part is solved as well. A distance institute was also introduced if any criminal proceedings were initiated against the main state auditor, i.e. a criminal offence. A regulation has been added under which the State Audit Office, with its audit under the annual programme and work plan, may also be carried out at the request of the Croatian Parliament. It is also an important element and the European Commission itself has indicated the need for this. And the conflict, the prevention of conflicts of interest is particularly apostropheal, and it is stated that the authorised State Auditor must not be a member of the Supervisory Board or of another company body and of other legal entities subject to the audit of the State Audit Office. Here are the most significant changes compared to the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75777	Thank you very much to the secretary of state. The committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we move on to the debate on behalf of the representatives' clubs. A Croatian Democratic Community representative club and distinguished counterpart Damir Sesvecan. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75778	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the final draft law on the State Audit Office. After the Croatian Parliament discussed him at the plenary session in December last year, as the secretary of state said. Therefore, the adoption of this Act will immediately highlight the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support, and more specifically by this Act as provided for in Article 1 shall be governed by the establishment, establishment, jurisdiction and management of the State Audit Office, the way of work and reporting, the duties and rights of authorised state auditors and other employees, and the cooperation of the State Audit Office with other bodies. The need for the adoption of this Act stems from the constitutional provisions laid down by the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia from last June. These changes regulated the issue of the independent position of the State Audit Office as the most audit institution of the Republic of Croatia, and until then the position of the State Audit Office was governed exclusively by the State Audit Act. In accordance with the recommendations of the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions and the recommendations of the Lima and Paris Declaration, the strengthening of independence, hence the functional and financial, the State Audit Office, through the addition of constitutional provisions, has also been requested by the European Commission in the form of criteria for closing Chapter 32. Financial supervision. Furthermore, the Constitutional Law implementing the Constitution of October 2010 provides for the need to adopt laws relating to the State Audit Office, since constitutional provisions on this issue cannot, of course, be applied directly. So, the bill that is before us compared to the first reading is additionally arranged, it is further improved and not only nomotechnically, termnologically but also substantively. The largest number of proposals and remarks presented in the debates at the plenary session or through proposals from individual clubs and the working bodies of the Assembly were accepted by the applicant, so I do not think there is any obstacle to the adoption of this Act. Accordingly, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of the law in question on the State Audit Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75779	Thank you very much. A SDP representative club, and a distinguished colleague, Nadica Jelas. Here's your esteemed co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75780	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The State Audit Office was established in 1993 and has so far been very professionally and responsibly doing a demanding job in controlling the spending of taxpayers' money and protecting state property. For the illustration, I will say that the annual volume of public funds that were subject to a state audit has reached about half of the domestic gross product, so practically every other item of the domestic gross product has been revised. Reports of the State Audit Office regularly supported both positions and opposition in the Assembly, also regularly highlighting the educational and anti-corruption role of the State Audit Office. Much more often, it was said that the State Audit Office has done a very large and extremely valuable job, thus revising conversion and privatisation. Unfortunately, some other institutions have not further done the job, have not prosecuted numerous irregularities and illegalities identified by the revision, so that in fact thousands of pages of the review report on the conversion and privatisation of others, we could almost say a dead letter on paper. However, the fact is that this finding exists, and that it can always be used to launch appropriate procedures. This is the more recent changes to the Constitution have established a provision on the non-deprecated conversion and privatisation of crime. The basic prerequisite for an effective public sector audit, as the one managing public money, is the independence of the state audit. In this respect, one of the requests of the European Commission was made in 2007, in the process of harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union, it was that the functional and financial independence of the State Audit Office was installed in the Croatian Constitution, and this requirement was translated into one of the criteria for closing Chapter 32, therefore financial supervision. The latest amendments and additions to the Constitution in the middle of last year met the requirement, in a way that the introduction of Article 53a into the Constitution of the State Audit Office was designated as the highest audit institution in the Republic of Croatia, independent and fully independent in its work. And this independence and independence of the State Audit Office is, in my opinion, the essence of this legal text that we are talking about today. The independence of the State Audit Office shall, above all, be reflected in the mode of work, i.e. in the independent establishment of the annual programme and work plan on the basis of certain criteria. On the basis of the recommendation of the General Budget Administration of the European Commission, and regarding the manner of operation of the State Audit Office in the draft law, it is also possible for the revision to be carried out, except on the basis of this annual work programme, and according to the individual requirements of the Croatian Parliament, but still on the condition that the eligibility of that request is previously assessed by the Chief State Auditor, so that we should say, in particular, it is his last. The independence of the State Audit Office is reflected, among other things, in the financial independence defined by the formulation that the State Audit Office independently plans the funds necessary for its work and is determined by the Croatian Parliament in the State budget. The same independence and independence of the State Audit Office also stems from the fact that the salaries of authorised auditors are paid by the basis of a special Law on the Payment of Authorised State Auditors. In the debate on the legal text in the first reading, a number of quality proposals were made, primarily aimed at ensuring the highest level of expertise, professional experience and the personal reputation of the main state auditor and his deputy, but also at authorised auditors, given precisely the advanced high level of their independence and independence in the conduct. Therefore, great powers on the one hand were sought to be balanced with great responsibility, i.e. with high conditions, therefore both professional, and moral, which must be met by persons who would be responsible for the work of auditors. In this respect, the Chief State Auditor was established by the Institute of Suspension, while the mandated auditors were strengthened by the criteria of non-judgment in such a way that an authorised auditor could only be a person who was not convicted of any type of criminal offence, not just for acts of economic crime, as was the case in the original text of the law. Similarly, an authorised auditor shall not be a member of any supervisory board, or of any other company body, or of other legal entities subject to the audit obligation of the State Audit Office. In one word, therefore, most of the proposals presented on the Committee on Finance, and in the plenary debate itself, but also by the European Commission, were accepted and included in the final text of the law, and reasoned arguments were presented for what was not accepted. And in conclusion, and in other cases, if there were a greater readiness of the position to respect the objections, including these opposition ones, as was the case with this law, we would have fewer bile debates, and ultimately we would have more often adopted it by consensus of good laws. So this time, in the final text, we received one first of all clear, namely, solid law, which should be an effective instrument for identifying all those who are obeyers, not good masters of the public money of Croatian taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75781	Thank you very much. We have one application for correction of the quote, dear colleague Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75782	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to correct the incorrect assumption that it's not your fault, which is, it's your exact quote, but it's incorrect what it says. In our reasoning on page 8, when we call upon ourselves, I am obliged to re-emphasise it, when we refer to articles of the Constitution, again here we refer to Article 53a, and I remind the MPs that in the last and still valid Constitution we do not have an article 53a, and as I recently spoke of that time we have passed from 116, 103 laws that were not in conformity with the precisely numbered articles of the law, I would ask that we make sure that we get the correct consolidated text of the Constitution of Croatia, because in that 85 number of National Journals still do not have an article 53a, we have an article 54 on it and that needs to be corrected. As Mr. Vice President, and in the introduction again, the Government, therefore the motionary calls for Article 84. The Constitution, and in this one that is still valid, says that the meetings of the Croatian Parliament are public, and someone has the right to propose. So I ask that, finally, here at Parliament's Presidency, we take care to coordinate the numbering of these articles as it should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75783	Thank you. Dear counterpart Boris Klemenic and the club of representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75784	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The State Audit Office was established now we can say back in '93. the years of the State Audit Act. The law found that the audit is carried out in a manner and manner according to the procedures established by the audit standards of the International Organisation of the Supreme Audit Institutions. The Lim Declaration established insai audit standards which determine the work and functioning of state audit institutions and their basic principles. And the main goal is to highlight the independence of state audit. In addition to such high insai audit standards, the issue of independence of the State Audit Institution also deals with the Mexican Declaration of Independence of the Supreme Audit Institutions adopted in 2007. Intosai ethical codes and numerous resolutions and declarations and the Prague Declaration accepted at the 1999 meeting of the heads of state audits of Central and Eastern Europe and the European Court of Auditors. In the context of European integration, the Republic of Croatia pointed out a concrete request from the European Commission from June 2007 in a document called the European Union Common Position on Chapter 32, which is financial supervision, related to the preservation of the functional and financial independence of the State Audit Office through amendments and additions to constitutional provisions or national legislation which have the same effect and the adoption and implementation of the necessary accompanying rules. The final draft law adopted recommended audit standards as well as all documents and requirements resulting from the negotiation process. This proposed law shall precisely and clearly regulate the structure, jurisdiction, management, mode of work and reporting, and the duties and rights of authorised national auditors and cooperation with other bodies. The organisation, mode of work, the receipt of authorised auditors in a working relationship, or the conditions for the performance of the tasks of authorised auditors, the termination of work, and other issues which need to be regulated in more detail shall be regulated by the normative acts and the Statute of the State Audit Office. The final draft law provides for the appointment of the Chief State Auditor, its responsibility and scope of action, the length of the mandate, as well as the adoption of observations and proposals made in the first reading of the law, which I think is important to highlight, as well as the regulation of formal conditions for the Chief State Auditor. We must note that no proposal has been adopted to open a public tender for the selection of the Chief State Auditor. In addition, the way in which audits have been carried out and precise deadlines for auditors and statutory representatives of audit entities are set. Furthermore, Article 11 of this final draft law provides that the Chief State Auditor has a deputy appointed by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the General State Auditor for which a public tender is also not called but is elected on the proposal of the General State Auditor. The HSS Club finds that the law well regulated the question of access by authorised auditors to the information, data and documentation needed in the course of the audit i.e. the audit entity's obligations to make the requested documentation available to the authorised national auditor. The proposed law states that by the end of the current year, the Chief State Auditor shall submit a report to the Croatian Assembly for the previous year, after which it shall be published on the website of the State Audit Office, enabling more transparent insight into the audits carried out. If you remember in the debate, it means at first reading, it was just one of the things that we had doubts about, and I'm glad that here's the proposaler adopted these remarks, or the comments of the HSS Club, and as much as I remember the HDSSB club. We believe that these data should be published and made available to the public, which is one of the important steps to combat corruption in Croatian society. The HSS Club welcomes the proposed law, and we believe that quality changes have been made in relation to the first reading of the law and that the same clear, precise and systematic regulation is in line with the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the acquis of the EU and the legal acts of the Council of Europe and other sources of EU law. And in the end, the HSS Club will support this final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75785	Thank you very much. It is the Club of HNS-HSU Representatives, and on behalf of the club, a distinguished colleague of the representative Danica Hursa. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75786	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, respected lawmakers, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am, at the very beginning, going to say that the HNS-HSU Club will also support this final bill because we also supported the proposal in our first reading. So, before us is the Final Proposal of the Law on the State Office for Auditing, it is a European law harmonising our legislation in this area with the acquis of the EU. It should be said immediately that the proposal put in place a large number of remarks in the final proposal, which is good, which are presented in the debate during the first reading. The HNS-HSU club supported the adoption of this law in its first reading and had no major objections, but we also supported the proposals of some of the clubs. Some of the comments adopted here, I'll underline. Thus, it entered into the law that authorised state auditors would be subject to rules relating to civil servants. It was also incorporated to add professional conditions and years of working experience to be met by the candidate for the Chief State Auditor, more precisely defined conditions for the resolution of the Chief State Auditor in the event of a criminal offence as well as the possibility of suspension of the Chief State Auditor. It is added that an authorised public auditor may not be a member of the Supervisory Board or of other company bodies and other legal persons subject to the audit of the State Audit Office. The acceptance of this remark seems to be quite significant for the independence and transparency of the work of the authorised state auditor. It is a pity, however, that the proponent did not accept the remark that the law lays down deadlines to revise the budgets of local self-government units. Here we once again believe that this version in the final proposal is a new and quality step so we will support this Final Proposal for the Law on the State Audit Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75787	Thank you very much. We've finished discussing the clubs, we're moving on to an individual debate. First, a respected colleague named Zeljko Turk signed up. Here you go, buddy Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75788	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Madam Secretary of State with your associates. So, to remind you, the Croatian Parliament has adopted amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which, by introducing Article 53a, the Constitution has appointed the State Audit Office as the highest audit institution of the Republic of Croatia, independent and independent in its work. The State Audit Office was established in 1993 by the State Audit Act, which also requires that the audit be carried out in a manner and according to the procedures established by the audit standards of the International Organisation of the Supreme Audit Institutions. The basic principles of independence recognised in the community of state audits as a fundamental requirement for the effective functioning of the audit of the public sector, resulting from those documents: the relevant constitutional or legal framework and its active application, the independence of the head of the State Audit institution including the determined duration of the mandate and legal protection in the performance of its duties, sufficient wide-ranging and complete discretion in the performance of the institution, unlimited access to information, persons and documents, the right and obligation to report on the work of the institution itself, the freedom to decide on the content of the audit reports itself and the time of the audit. What I personally think is important is the existence of effective monitoring mechanisms and done according to the State Audit recommendations according to their findings, as well as financial and self-management autonomy. And in the end, I would say that this is an effective relationship between the State Audit Institute and the legislative authority, and the constitution itself. The need to coordinate and adapt the way and rules of the State Audit Office to internationally accepted standards and best European practice on reliability... management in its opinion on the request for EU membership in April 2004 was confirmed by the European Commission itself. In 2007 the European Commission also put the common position of Croatia and the Union in the document for Chapter 23. Financial supervision and criteria as the basis or condition for self-closure of chapters, and this final proposal of the law, all the documents and requirements resulting from the negotiation process so far from the very name of the law to be called the Law on the State Audit Office to ensure independence in the planning and implementation of transactions, to carry out an audit of reporting and financing. Perhaps just a few sentences that in his performance in the executive office of a city, the town of Zapresic and himself a factor that is familiar with the work of the State Audit on the ground, that the witness himself himself has in the last ten years, especially in recent years, made... a step both in the work of the State Audit but perhaps with one indication which has not been sufficiently demonstrated so far that the State Audit is not here to condemn someone conditionally stated but to make recommendations through his work in order to at the time to follow, so those institutions which the State Audit and had the subject of the work of improving. And in fact, every report begins with what has been done since the last revision that was carried out in order to fail to remove and create assumptions about better quality work in the time that follows. It is clear that the work of the State Audit not in the field is important as a result of this particular advisory part, but also because the State Audit in its work unites in its work and a whole series of laws and legal provisions that units of local and regional (regional) administrations must adhere to, means that this work is very complex and that it is much wider than the cleanness of the follow-up of financial indicators, because it is actually a practice in the business of the time that I have managed to analyse and to say that it is so. It may be important to add a sentence of two that, with the work of the State Audit, although it is not a direct subject of this point of today's agenda and the adoption of this law, it is important to say that, in a large part of the institutions, since the legislative formation and internal audit, so that cities, municipalities, counties or other institutions that act complementaryly, which are also part of these independent bodies are therefore subject to the work, so I say with a large amount of independence that in some ways our small market audits have been infrequent, that they have proved in practice very important, that one lack of the law which pointed out that, if the internal audits of the law were not established, they gave criminal provisions, but I dare to say that a large part of the local self-government units have done this step and formed these offices, or one or more of the one or more employees, which is essential to assist the work in accordance with the law, because it is necessary to mention here as a large part of the requirements which are necessary and the requirements which are necessary in which are necessary, in which are necessary, in which are necessary, in which are necessary, in terms and in which are necessary, in which are necessary and in terms, in which are necessary, in terms of the necessary and in terms of the necessary, and in which of the necessary, in which, and in which, in which of the necessary, in which, and in which, in which, in which the terms of the necessary, in which the necessary to be, in which, in which, in which, in which, in which, in which, in which, in which, in which, in which the terms of the terms of the terms of the terms of the relevant, in which the relevant of the necessary of the terms of the terms of the necessary of the necessary of which, in which, in which, in which, in which, in which, in which, in which of the terms of the terms of the terms of which of which of which of which of which of which of which of which, in which, in which, in which, in which, in which, in which, in which, in which, the terms of the relevant, the relevant, the terms of the terms of the terms of the terms of which of which of which, in which, in which, in which, in which, in which, in which of the As it could be heard in the debate here from the work of the interlocutors so far independently of which political option we belong, therefore the orderly work of the State Audit is shown to be effective, justified above all, and accordingly, and in the context of this item of the agenda, I am giving support to the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75789	Thank you very much, fellow Turk. And it's time for a distinguished colleague, Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75790	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable State Secretary, representatives of the State Audit Office, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm going to say at first that I'm going to support the adoption of this law. In fact, the Final Proposal for the Law on the State Audit Office in relation to the original draft law has seen some changes and improvements. It is necessary to say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a proposing has considered those proposals by representatives in the Croatian Parliament and those he considered justified in the final draft of the law. This law provides for a legal and legislative basis and full compliance and adaptation of the manner and rules of the State Audit Office with internationally accepted standards and best European practice regarding the reliability of financial supervision. In accordance with this, the provisions of Chapter 32 are also met. – Financial supervision, which was also a condition for the closure of this chapter in the process of Croatia's accession to EU membership, which means the adoption of all documents confirmed by the European Commission in this area and all of the above mentioned documents which are part of international law. It is therefore necessary to regulate the specific law which has been reached by this law, i.e. the establishment, establishment, jurisdiction and way of working of the most audit institution in the Republic of Croatia, which is the State Audit Office. The basic principles of independence recognised in the community of state audits as a fundamental requirement for the effective functioning of the audit of the public sector, resulting from those documents, are incorporated into the final draft of the law, and essentially contain: the regulatory arrangement of the State Audit Office as the highest institution for the conduct of State external audits independently and independently in its work, shall be governed by competences, internal structure and mode of work, and shall highlight the functional and financial independence of the office. Through the whole text of this law, but also through the above-mentioned documents of European legislation, the idea of full independence of the State Audit is driven from any external influence on its work, and this independence is ensured by this law. In the professional sense of the revision, in the context of this law, the examination and verification of documents, documents, documents, reports, internal control systems and internal audits, accounting and financial procedures and other records to determine whether the financial report demonstrates the true financial position and results of financial activities in accordance with accepted accounting principles and accounting standards. The audit shall also check the process and transparency of financial transactions in terms of legal use of public funds and general goods. At the end of the audit process, it is important to assess the effectiveness and economic performance of the activity and to assess the effectiveness, which is very important to me, to achieve the objectives of the business or the objectives of certain financial transactions, programmes and projects. The legal representative, i.e. the audit entity, shall be obliged to make all necessary documentation, documents, reports, records and other information available for the purpose of carrying out the audit. I think it is necessary to stress that the audit entity is obliged to make available to the authorised national auditor and documentation which represents a business and other secret to carry out the audit and to establish a realistic and objective audit finding. Normally, the documentation, documents, reports, records and other information obtained during the audit can only be used to produce the audit report. After the audit has been carried out, the draft report on the audit carried out shall be drawn up, submitted to the legal representative of the audit entities for the purpose of showing, and shall be made manifest within 8 days of that report. Personally, I believe that the legal provision under which the statutory representative of the audit entities provides within 60 days of the date of receipt of the report to the State Audit Office a written indication of the measures taken according to the findings of the audit, gives the possibility to the executive and legislative authorities of the state but also local self-government to take measures to prevent irregularities and illegality in financial operations and to take measures to punish those who have acted illegally. The important thing is that it is located which the State Audit has noticed that they are being carried out so that these illegalities are no longer repeated. Although it is independent in its work, the State Auditor submits a report to the Croatian Assembly on the work of the State Audit Office published on the website of the State Audit Office, which means that, under this law, the work of the State Audit Office is public, but also completely independent and financially and programmeically in its work. There have been proposals to commit the state office to review all units of local self-government and state-owned companies, but to have a significant impact on the quality and independence of its work. I think it is more effective for the state office to carry out its work programme for the current year, which is finally confirmed by the Croatian Parliament. Finally, I agree with this final bill. I think there was plenty of time for proposals to improve it, that they were important to arrive at proposals and accepted and that as such this law could be accepted. I'll give my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75791	Thank you very much, colleague. There are no more applications. That's why I'm closing the debate. The proposing representatives have no need for final address, no. Then I'm also closing this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met as usual.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75792	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on the State Audit Office, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 667. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the State Audit Office. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This Final Proposal for a Law on the State Audit Office was adopted by the majority of the 102 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75793	and we move to - Final bill on the regulation of property law in order to build infrastructure buildings, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 831 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this law be discussed and adopted by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159, when the first and second readings of the amendments are united, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Justice. Reports from the board's session have been received. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. On behalf of the promoter here is State Secretary Ivana Maletic. Would you like an introduction? Yeah. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75794	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So before you is the proposal for a law on the regulation of property relations for the purpose of building infrastructure buildings, and the objective of the law and the area governing the settlement of property relations and the exemption from payment of property rights fees, the right to service and the right to build when it comes to the construction of infrastructure facilities between units or units of local and regional (regional) self-government of the Republic of Croatia and companies owned by them, not by co-ownership but by 100% ownership. Therefore, the aim of the law is, in fact, to facilitate and simplify the preparation of projects that are important, which have very important economic and socioeconomic aspects not only for the Republic of Croatia but also for all units of local and regional (regional) self-government, but not only that aspect of financial, means the cost of preparing projects but also time-consuming, because it wants to speed up the process itself of resolving property relations. We think that this is particularly important, given the moment in which the Republic of Croatia is located and the future that we expect soon as a member of the European Union when our investments will actually increase at all levels and will be of considerable and large amounts in relation to the infrastructure investments we have so far because we will be able to obtain 75 European kunas through European funds every 25 kunas. And it is very important, therefore, to be able to prepare quality, to have as many, much more projects as we have ever had prepared for the implementation and use of European funds. And this Law is one of the measures, one of the activities that are being done on that path of simplification and simplification, which is precisely this process of project preparation. We have looked a little through pre-accession aid programs which means, and of course the effects of this Law can also be seen at national level. We have been doing an analysis on projects from pre-accession aid programmes, so let's see here that in the IPA project for the city of Knin where water supply and sewerage is being built, where essentially this cost of paying each other in terms of the city of Knin having to pay the Republic of Croatia or the roads or Croatian railways that are essentially costs that are relevant to one local unit. And she's actually willing to give up such investments because she doesn't have enough financial resources with all the other expenses required to prepare the projects. So it was really important to make a move in that sense to get support. And otherwise, in the projects so far, it was mostly done by asking the state budget, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and the competent ministries to finance it from the state budget, which was really just a return of money in a circle. So here's the law we tried to solve it also in some way. We have another amendment to the fact that the Committee on Legislatives has passed. We, in essence, agree with this amendment because it is a legal amendment to the expressions in Articles 1, 1 and 2 and Article 2 and Article 4 where, in essence, we have put those property-legal relations in the pursuit of the right of ownership of the right of construction and/or, instead of the ally and therefore, it is, indeed, the rights which are not in an alternative relationship with the content listed and accepted, so that it is only that of the ally and. Likewise, the scope of ownership as the concept of civil rights is not expressed by the percentage of more owners in the same matter makes it a co-ownership, so that in fact, the Office itself said that it is not necessary to highlight what we specifically want to stress that it is about legal persons in 100% ownership as if no one else can be owned by these legal persons when it is allowed to be released from fees. But then it is said that it is not necessary to highlight this 100% because as soon as it writes its property, it means 100 percent property, so these amendments are accepted in that sense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75795	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the opening statement. - Club reporters? Actually, the board first. There's no need. We're going to the clubs. On behalf of the HSS club, dear colleague Boris Klemenic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75796	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of this debate, I will say that the HSS Club will welcome the adoption and welcome the adoption of this Law. But we can also all wonder together why he has not been suggested before, since we believe that his application can have far-reaching positive consequences. The basic intensity of this Act is the creation of assumptions for more effective implementation of projects related to the construction of infrastructure buildings of interest for the Republic of Croatia and in the interest of units of local and regional self-government and their more successful participation in the use of funds from the European Union funds. The proposed text of the law defines infrastructure projects of interest for the Republic of Croatia, units of local and regional self-government, legal persons owned by the Republic of Croatia and legal persons established by the Republic of Croatia and legal persons established by units of local and regional or regional self-government. In order to implement them, it is necessary to create legal assumptions for the more effective resolution of property-legal relations and the exemption from mutual payment of property rights, the right of service or the right to build between public rights persons. As we know so far, the practice shows that especially in the last few years, the economic crisis of the unit of local and regional self-government has been the result of the state budget to pay these fees to the state, and so the money has been spinning we could say in a pointless circle. Also, legal persons in the 100% ownership of the Republic of Croatia rarely seek assistance through the competent ministries for paying the mentioned obligations of local and regional self-government units. A simple analysis must conclude that the process of the payment path has an illogical sequence and that changes need to be made. Therefore, this bill is an appropriate way and the answer to change the unsatisfactory state and interrupts the inefficient empty way of money. The adoption of this Act will speed up the resolution of property-legal relations and achieve the release of public rights persons from the mutual payment of property rights, the right of service or the right to build, and achieve a more successful participation in the cohesion policy of the European Union. The provisions of the proposed law apply exclusively in the case of the construction of infrastructure facilities of interest to the Republic of Croatia, and all in the general interest, since such projects strengthen economic development, and opens up the possibility of encouraging entrepreneurship, exercising labour rights and also earning profits themselves. And as I pointed out at the beginning of the Croatian Peasant Party Club does not see objections to this bill. However, we believe that its application in practice will lead to easier and faster business, and that the economy and society as a whole will have positive effects. The HSS Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75797	Thank you very much, colleague Klemenic. It is up to SDP club and distinguished colleague Ivo Jelusic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75798	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There's one before us, perhaps one of the few laws so short. But also an important law for the development and construction of infrastructure projects in the Republic of Croatia, both at national and local self-government units. It is certain that this law will speed up the procedure, reduce administration, and allow it to move faster towards the development of infrastructure projects. What this law, as well as other laws that solve, above all, that address the issue of objects of state interest should also equalise the status of objects which are state-level companies with projects that build cities and units of local self-government and their companies, so that in that sense, it is easier and easier and in the same way to enable the treatment and projects of units of local self-government as projects of state interest, in order to be in the same position as state-owned projects, and in order to make it possible for local self-government units to benefit 100% from this law. Of course, it is good in this law and that it resolves in one very simple way property-legal relations between all public rights persons, therefore both between the state and all companies that it is the founder, but also between the units of local self-government and their companies to which it is the founder, as well as each other. At the Finance Committee, we discussed this question whether it applies and when two companies are in business with each other in one ownership of a unit of local self-government, and the other in the possession of a state, or any other relationship between public rights persons, it is said that this applies to all, since in this case, when land and units of local self-government are needed, and it is owned by a company whose founder is a state, it is also possible to resolve it in this way and through this law property-legisl relations, and if so, it is good. In this sense, it is good and what it treats in the same way both the right of service and the right to build, so that in a simple and efficient way it enables us to use land, i.e. its use to build infrastructure projects, and in particular it is important to expect significant funds from the European Union structural funds that have been opened to us for almost two years, so since 1 July 2013, when Croatia, when Croatia and formally enters the European Union. What is also good, it is good, therefore, to avoid spilling out of one pocket into another, out of the left pocket into the right pocket, as it is possible in the case of donations, in the case of natural persons that parents can donate without compensation so as not to pay taxes on that property to their children, so it is logical that both the state, or the unit of local self-government, can donate this land to their company without compensation and without paying sales taxes. What is not clear enough to me in this law, says here that infrastructure structures are those buildings, transport, public and municipal and other infrastructures in Article 3 for which the interest of the Republic of Croatia has been established, and then according to the Law on the Authority or a special law such as, and now states roads, water buildings, municipal buildings and railway infrastructures and the like. It is not taxed here that this refers to the facilities of social infrastructure, which I also think is important, therefore for the facilities being built for the needs of social infrastructure, that for them the same treatment may be, although from the first part of this article it can be read so that it can be determined for this social interest, but in this second part there is a list of tax roads, water buildings, municipal buildings, railway infrastructure, so this is not listed, but here they nod my head to refer to it, so I guess that, if it is covered, maybe this should also be stated... that it writes loud and clear, that there would be no misunderstanding about it, and that means if the local self-government unit builds a school, kindergarten, cultural object or state if it works, that this land that needs to be treated in a way that is treated when the road or waterway is built or some other municipal infrastructure facilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If this enables more efficient and faster, better and to a greater extent, to use the European Union's funds, this law will surely have its own justification, if it is to bring about an investment cycle to enable or facilitate the launch of investment projects, then it is certainly good, because we need investments, Croatia may be in one of the most difficult periods when the investment of projects is gone, there are fewer, and in this way we will cheape our own projects of public purpose, so transport infrastructure, social infrastructure and each other, and I think it is good in that sense. What I would possibly suggest, therefore, by reading this law and the spirit of it, is not also precise that it is an obligation or an option, so whether, necessarily by law, it must be given this land without compensation, or leaving the possibility of not having to, but that the unit of local self-government, state, company owned by them... The title of that land, that the one in agreement with the one who needs it can be arranged so that it can, but it doesn't have to, so for example. We are not in a position to force a small municipality or a city by a new law to give that land, and perhaps it does not feel a purpose or need, or is not in its interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I plead, support this law, but I plead and read it like that, I don't know how the proposer thought it would leave the possibility that land could be given without compensation, but it doesn't have to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75799	Thank you very much. It is next to the club of HNS and HSU and distinguished colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75800	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Party generally supports any initiative and any regulation that would lead to a situation in which we will use relatively little pre-accession funds from a country, turn into a country that will use the funds of cohesion funds in a very high percentage. The example of Poland is one of those where we can and should learn, and the state of development of our infrastructure suggests that there is a lot of space in the development that should be ensured wherever possible by European funds. As my colleague Jelusic said, this is one of the short laws that we have had the opportunity to see in the Croatian Parliament, but he is indeed the kind of person who brings a whole series of concerns. And perhaps the matter is not so urgent that it could not be discussed in a broader way, that is, in two readings because it is given the character of the law that is passed by emergency procedure. In his name, explicite mentions infrastructure facilities, i.e. infrastructure buildings. Post interpretations on committees and here nodding their heads have no legal effect. If this material is not related to municipal facilities, not only infrastructure facilities, because infrastructure facilities are just some of the municipal facilities, there may be major problems. In practice, there are a whole series of cases from which the state is a mother, and to whom the stepmother, which declares public interest, which is not. I come from Velika Gorica, which the Republic of Croatia for state agricultural land for the purpose of building a new city cemetery, so the municipal building of the first order, had to be paid within 30 days of 9.5 million kuna. And for the land that the state took in 1947 to the inhabitants of Velika Gorica, members of the Land Community in Kurilovac. The town of Velika Gorica was valued to pay 9.5 million kuna within 30 days, or there will be nothing from that country. Because, I remind you, the Cemetery Act says that if you want to build a city cemetery regardless of when you're going to use that surface, you have to provide a surface enough for 100 years of cemetery work. So, theoretically, in 30 years, you will use about 20% of that area, but in advance you have to solve the surface for 100 years, and in this particular case it meant asking the Government of the Republic of Croatia to donate that land unlike those when the government gave to those who were closer to the altar, so they heard better the political mass by hand and cap free land that was resold for the construction of any income commercial content, including commercial centres, and in this particular case it was actually about the hijacked land that we paid twice. Will this law give some new Great Gore a chance not to be humiliated in the future? If so, it should be said which facilities are considered infrastructure objects within the meaning of this law, and not leave it as defined in the text of the law which says "such as roads, water buildings, municipal buildings, railway infrastructure and the like". It's a similar space big enough to manipulate this law. There's a question of whether this applies to waste dumps, county waste dumps and garbage burners. The city of Zagreb and Zagreb County have an eclantan problem of this kind. Will this law allow one of the cities and municipalities to force a dump site? It's too much of a misunderstanding and we're looking for answers. It is certainly wise to avoid situations where the state pays benefits to local self-government or local self-government to the State for the right to serve. There's local self-government where objects where gro uses. However, with some infrastructure facilities such as pipelines, pipelines, hot water, local self-government has in many cases a very high degree of sensitivity in terms of environmental requirements. Is Article 5(3) of that Article to be governed by the right to rebel because it is said here in paragraph 2 and then in paragraph 3 that property-legal relations between the owner of the land and the owner of the infrastructure building are governed by the contract and that the contract is the basis for the implementation of the rights acquired under this law, does this mean that one of the two parties does not have to accept the contract? Or will it be included as provided for in Article 3 of the Law on Exclusion? So then this provision that says that the contract is the basis for the exercise of rights under this law is actually ridiculous. Because if the Act of Extortion and stretches out and cases when it's not about private owners, then that provision is actually just a fig leaf. It would not be bad if we had the opportunity to talk about this law in a wider circle, to include more experts, to include people from the association of cities and municipalities and counties and to include such laws as the code adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia first with the interested public. This law is not given to a public debate and is not discussed by the interested public, we do not have any views of the public. What's the code adopted by the government if it breaks it every other day? In fact, it turns into a cover behind which is possible precisely because the law is short, because it is simple and then unspeakable in some elements leaves room for some solutions to be introduced by force tomorrow. I repeat, all solutions that allow us to make easier, easier use of funds from European funds, all solutions that allow easier and simpler construction of infrastructure objects of general interest, above all of the interests of local self-government units and citizens living there, are welcome as far as the HNS and HSU clubs are concerned, but this law is precisely due to its shortness and ambiguity that raises a number of questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75801	Thank you very much. The club of HDZ representatives and fellow MP Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75802	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. We have before us a draft bill on the regulation of property law relations of the construction of infrastructure buildings with the final proposal of the law. What is important to say for this legislative proposal is that it is a good legal solution and that this law, as far as we have here in our materials, has passed a wide round of discussions through resolution ministries to associations of municipalities and associations of cities, and the law has been specifically completed with the State Attorney's Office and with the Office of Law. So this comment that the law did not go through one broad debate since we are passing it by emergency procedure is not exactly valid, because here we have an indication of the Association of Cities that result in the support of this legislative proposal with little suggestions and the proposal is recommended by the associations to be included in this legislative proposal. So the law is in an emergency procedure, first of all, because it is assessed before the adoption of this law that the law provides for preconditions for making better use of funds from EU pre-accession programmes and funds, and that there are certain state reasons for this when it comes to legal solution and such legislative proposals, surely there is a reason for emergency procedure, because it is being facilitated, accelerated and made more efficient for projects that are infrastructure projects of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, and in particular for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This legislative proposal aims to strengthen the overall economic and social progress of the Republic of Croatia, ensure the promotion of entrepreneurship, the exercise of labour rights, the right to social security, the right to a healthy life. It therefore makes it easier to implement, above all, all those interests of our citizens living in the Republic of Croatia. I have already said in the introduction that this law has passed a wide round of discussions and that it is certain that this is a legal solution that we should support in the Croatian Parliament. This law therefore resolves the question of property relations and the exemption from payment of fees in order to obtain ownership rights, rights of service and rights of citizens in such a way that the Republic of Croatia or legal persons in its 100% ownership and legal persons in which the founder, units of local and regional (regional) self-government, legal persons in 100% ownership and legal persons who are the founders of each other do not pay compensation for the acquisition of ownership rights, the right to serve and the right to build on their land. First of all, this means reducing the cost of those who are project holders and reducing the revenues of those on whose land the project is carried out. First of all, in order to speed up and facilitate the implementation of the project itself. Therefore, on land on which one of these rights is acquired, either the right to ownership, the right to service or the right to build, is a burden on the owner of the right which is the least burden on the owner himself, so at least the costs and the right that will most effectively speed up this process. The property legal relations between the landowner and the owner of the infrastructure building shall be governed by the contract and this amendment of the Legislative Committee should be mentioned this right which is segregated each right is separate for itself. The HDZ Club fully supports this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75803	Thanks a lot, buddy. This is what ended the club debate. We move on to an individual debate and the first to apply for the Honorable colleague representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75804	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected MPs and MPs. Today, we are discussing a proposal for a Law on the Regulation of Property Relations for the construction of infrastructure buildings with the final proposal for a law that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred to in the emergency procedure. I believe that there are justified reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure because the content of the law itself removes existing barriers and all in order to achieve the preconditions for the competitiveness of public rights persons to exploit funds from pre-accession programmes and EU funds. This proposal is of paramount importance both for the Republic of Croatia and for the units of local and regional (regional) self-government because it creates assumptions for the effective implementation of important infrastructure projects, and it should be pointed out that the provisions of the law apply only when it comes to building infrastructure structures of interest for the Republic of Croatia and not other buildings. It is therefore important to define what infrastructure projects are, as this proposal does. Infrastructure projects of interest to the Republic of Croatia are those projects which are owned by the Republic of Croatia, local and regional (regional) self-government units, legal entities owned by the Republic of Croatia and legal persons whose founder is the Republic of Croatia, as well as legal persons with 100% ownership of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government and legal persons whose founder is the units of local and regional (regional) self-government. The common denominator of a person of public law. Such projects require the creation of legal assumptions for the effective resolution of property relations and the exemption from the mutual payment of fees for the acquisition of property rights, the right of service or the right to build between public rights persons. If such assumptions are not provided, the price of such projects is high at the very beginning and is generally impossible or difficult to realise. So far, practice shows that the units of local and regional (regional) self-government in almost all projects sought state budget assistance to ensure their financing of compensation. If we take into account this fact that the Republic of Croatia has the possibility to participate in EU pre-accession programmes and that one of the conditions for resolving property relations is then we know how important it is to pay compensation for the acquisition of ownership rights, the right to service or the right to build. Only EU accession will strengthen investment potential as most of the funds are directed towards projects in the field of transport, environmental protection, water, etc. I believe that this law is necessary in order to resolve property legal relations and to free public rights persons from paying compensation for the acquisition of property, service or construction of each other. For this reason, I support the adoption of a law on the regulation of property law in order to build infrastructure structures, which will make it possible to ensure that infrastructure projects are implemented more effectively as a more successful participation of the Republic of Croatia in the use of EU funds and funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75805	Thank you very much. Comrade Damir Sesvečan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75806	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So before us is the Law on the regulation of property relations for the purpose of building infrastructure buildings, with the final proposal of the law. So the law is proposed to be adopted by an emergency procedure and I will point out immediately that I support its adoption. Regardless of the fact that the law is relatively short, it numbers only six articles, it is very important for the reasons that it also provides assumptions for faster and more efficient implementation of the construction of infrastructure projects, hence infrastructure structures of interest to the Republic of Croatia as well as those in the interest of units of local, regional self-government, which is also an assumption of a more successful participation in the use of funds from the European Union funds. So that is exactly what the main objective and purpose is to achieve by passing this law. This law also creates assumptions for a more effective solution to property relations, for example when building infrastructure structures of different public rights persons, where therefore different public rights persons are owners of land than public rights holders of the project. The exemption of public rights persons from the mutual payment of compensation for the acquisition of property rights, the right of service or the right of citizens on their land, which land is needed to build infrastructure buildings, is also arranged. Therefore, for the reason that this law will undoubtedly allow for a faster resolution of property relations, as well as facilitating the preparation of project documentation, which should ultimately result in an increase in participation in the European Union funds, I will support the adoption of this law. I will, of course, also support the amendments that the promoter has accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75807	Thanks a lot, buddy. And for the debate, a distinguished colleague named Jerko Roshin also applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75808	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to say a few things. First of all, how I support this topic being addressed because this topic is really causing major problems in practice. Namely, they can testify to a situation in Split where the road bypass of Split or the road to Stobrec could not be realized simply because certain property relations could not be resolved. However, it is important to highlight something else in the context of the solution offered by this law in relation to the settlement of practically property compensation in the use of land from the unit of local self-government in relation to the state or state in relation to the units of local administration and self-government. The real and real problem is largely made up of private land owners, so I think it might be good to advance this law to address the problem of buying private land as well, by certain mechanisms that could be put into operation. I can also testify from my personal practices of building objects that we encountered problems. In one case, 13 meters of square Croatian railways were a terrible problem that has not been solved for one 6.7 years. In another case, the infrastructure of 147 meters of square land is virtually indecisive, with the good will of all, to solve this problem, but it is faced with problems that simple practice imposes. The law may not be easy to solve or there are no instruments that are appropriate. It is not just money and exchange, of course, that this is a lot of simplifying and speeding up that part of the problem in which I say social interests are represented regardless of the level of social interests, but which way are simply legal acts of obstacles in order to make something that is agreed as the exchange of goods or rights of use, the rights of construction or concession simply through the implementation of books difficult to achieve, or the references refuse to solve things in the way they were actually agreed in common with the fear that they might be doing something that is wrong. What I believe is a major problem, and today is a major problem that we have been facing so far, that, on this path of solving illegal facilities, lawlessly built objects have been a major obstacle to the solution of important infrastructure procedures and that, in addition to all this, what they have been illegal so far could not be realised because the damage prices that privates have set were so great that they were not acceptable. But it is worth the attention, and it is worth the support to deal with this problem that is really big, which we all face in practice. Local self-government and administration units simply can't solve some problems, so it's not just roads, it's waterways and sewers. Even if we could find tighter and stronger instruments of redemption. Of course, through many laws there have already been talks about this subject, but in practice it is not resolved until the end. If the issue of relations with private owners in solving the same problem could be found as good solutions as they have found for this case, then all this together in practice would work much better. So I'm just drawing attention to the need and this resolution segment, which doesn't mean that what this law is proposing right now is not good, though. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75809	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. We've exhausted all the applications for an individual hearing. In conclusion, the Honorable Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75810	Good afternoon again. I just have to say, I'm sorry that there isn't an esteemed representative Beus here, that really this law, although it's been a very short round of debates and it's been a few hours and it's only a small number of articles. What is important is that we specifically discussed Article 3 and this content, i.e. the scope of which infrastructure buildings are concerned. In cooperation with all other bodies, we have in fact found that it would not be individualizing all infrastructure structures because it can lead us to a situation to actually drop. And then we're in trouble. If we've listed it all once in the law, something's been dropped. Then by the time it comes again, the amendments to the law must pass, so we decided to leave it this general because we believe that the special laws are quite clear in determining what is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. So if there is an article that requires interpretation, it does not mean that it is not in itself right and that it needs to be done differently. And we really did it after a long thought and debate with legal professionals at different levels and in different bodies, and there was a particularly active involvement of the DORH. So we've come up with solutions like this. It is also important to stress that this is a lex specialis compared to all other laws that regulate property-legislative relations in a more complex and complicated way, and it is one of the good parts of this law that actually solves it in a simpler way and thus accelerates the whole procedure. What we couldn't solve with this law is a matter of private owners. So both legal and physical persons and land are privately owned, because ownership is one of the constitutional rights, constitutional categories and cannot be solved in this way so that it is actually given without compensation and by some very fast, very urgent procedure, even though the Law of Extortion is trying to find some solutions, but we know that in practice it is extremely complicated. However, by law itself, we couldn't touch it at all because it was indeed constitutional law. Of course, in the context of persons, public-owned legal persons, i.e. state-owned and owned units of local and regional self-government, and also because of local and regional regional self-government units, the issue has been raised. We've had a lot of debates on the very subject of their right of ownership and that now someone's taking the land for building construction facilities, and the constitutional right is that there must be compensation for it. But we've solved it, so of course it can be limited to one constitutional right if it strengthens all other constitutional rights. And that's why in this case it's about encouraging entrepreneurship, exercising the right to work and earning, the right to social security. So, all other constitutional rights are just being implemented then by this Law strengthening, so that is one solution that was acceptable in this regard. But private owners themselves, so we couldn't deal with it by law, even though we know it's also extremely complicated and slows down the implementation of such important things, both from the public interest and the importance of the projects. And now I just have to say in the end, since I'm really living with these pre-accession programs to help, like the MP said they're being used badly. If 92.22% of the agreed funds are a bad result, then I really don't know what to say, and besides, the European Commission itself and many countries are already thanking us for doing a good job with pre-accession aid programmes. That was one of the criteria in chapter 22 that would never have been closed if it hadn't been done well. So I'm sorry that we still have this kind of thinking that it's real, that it's bad, and it's a shame that we're actually saying ourselves that it's a bad thing that's still good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75811	Thank you very much, secretary. This concludes this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75812	We move to the Proposal for a Law on the Regulation of Property Relations in order to build infrastructure buildings, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 831 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. A businessman. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the regulation of property law relations for the purpose of building infrastructure buildings. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of 94 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75813	We move to the next item in the agenda, which is - Final proposal of the law on the lease and purchase of business space, second reading, P.Z. No. 672. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate when the legislation is passed under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. So far, the debate has been conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. Reports from the board's meeting were received on the benches. The amendments were submitted by the Committee for Justice, the Croatian Democratic Community club and representative Ana Lovrin. Would the proposing representatives like to take the floor? Yeah. Secretary of State Zoran Pichuljan. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75814	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The final proposal for a law on the lease and sale of business space is before you. However, relatively not excessive, yet important law to explain the practical intensity of the motionors may well say a few words about the genetics of the creation of this regulation and its practicality in order to better understand today’s solutions. Then allow me a few words. The lease of business space was arranged by the Law on the Hire of Business Space. Amendments and additions to that law allow the sale of a business space owned by the Republic of Croatia micro and small operators under conditions and under the procedure of the prescribed regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We recall that all of this is within the framework of measure 3 of the Small Economy Business Simplification Programme. As the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the City of Zagreb's initiative to enable the sale of business space and the ownership of the unit of local self-government as an initiative to sell the wider circle of entities to the tenants, i.e. the users of these premises, has been amended three times. Therefore, not only the micro and small operators of the small economy had the necessity to amend that law. And then we have solutions to this final bill allowing current tenants, i.e. users of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia, but also owned by municipalities, cities, counties and the City of Zagreb, who, under the conditions to regularly comply with their obligations under the lease agreement, but also other financial obligations towards units of local and regional self-government, and subject to an additional five-year use of this space and purchase of these premises. It's the war of this law. It is important to stress that this legislative proposal only gives public-legal bodies the opportunity to sell a business space owned by them, on the basis of publicly published lists to be updated, the business premises which are the subject of the sale and the obligation to sell the business space. Here we find this law, this specific matter, quality and relatively, I will not say simple but quality and understandablely, and therefore I would ask you to support it. And the amendments will be made manifest in the process of voting this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75815	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You want reporters from club sessions, actually committees, I keep clubs. First of all, the board? No, I don't. Then we're going to a club debate. The first is the SDP club, and distinguished counterpart Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75816	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The law on the lease and sale of business space is a good law, a law that solves many problems that have not been solved so far, primarily from the aspect of units of local self-government that have not had until now or in an adequate way to solve the problem, especially when it comes to the sale of business spaces, and it is good that precise and quite clear and loudly define all aspects of renting business spaces. So good is, we will certainly support this law, first of all, which, for the reasons that it in one place, simply regulates the rent of business premises, determines all the rules of hire, so that it does not leave the possibility that, in one municipality or city, it works like this, and on the other hand, and on the other hand, that it finally allows local self-government units to sell their business premises by virtue of this law to current users of business spaces for which the city finds that it has interests on its part, but also with the interests of the tenants. It is good that the law also treats that lease of business space for which there is no contract, because in both cities and municipalities, and also at the state level, it has not often led to good statistics, good records of all assets, then it was known to happen that the contract expires, so no one restores it, and the man crafts, company, or physical person remains in that space, although it is not exclusively his fault. So this law allows such spaces to be treated so that they can be sold, as well as those for which there is a valid contract, of course unless there is a move-out procedure, if therefore the owner of the space, whether it is a state, city or municipality, did not take the procedure to, against that user of space. If he didn't conduct the procedure, so he didn't do anything to get that space back, take away, or stop the rent, so it's okay to treat as well as those who have neat lease contracts. It is also good that this law is clearly given to units of local self-government, municipal, city councils and congregations, and county, that they can determine in their territory their own territory the purpose, the use of certain business spaces, any specific business space, either the whole street or parts of the street so that the unit of local self-government in this way determines politics, if they can say the identity of the city, what will be in that part of the city, which will be the content, and not only that politics determine those who pay the most business space, and then in that business space can do whatever they want, can have the activity they want. I think it is also good in that sense that this law gives the right and allows units of local self-government to determine which way it is in the interest that in a particular part of the city, what activities, not that those activities that are extremely profitable or more concrete than other offers, come to a business space, and then determine the content according to their own opinion or what they find most profitable. Of course, in that sense, this is a good legal solution that just says when it comes to renting the business space for which the purpose is determined, and the tenant does not stick to it, so either change its purpose to automatically terminate the lease agreement. What's possible, what I find controversial is the extension of the contract. It is said here in Article 6(3), therefore, that, otherwise, this article says that business premises are rented through a public tender, which is certainly fine, but it is said that, exceptionally of that, the tenant will offer to the current tenant of the business space, which fully fulfils the obligations under the lease agreement no later than 60 days before the end of the term on which the contract is concluded to offer the conclusion of a new lease contract for a specified time, therefore not longer than 5 years, and that means that whoever is in the current contract as a tenant pays regularly all his obligations to the tenant, that he can therefore be offered that space within 60 days, here, to extend the contract, here is not spoken at which price. I guess I don't know if it's supposed to be at the same price he had until then, because it's not mentioned at all under what conditions, so to extend his contract. Personally, I think it would be possible to extend so at that price, if that price in the previous procedure came... Contest... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , so if there is a maximum price, and what if that price is not appropriate, because it does not correspond to the market situation, so it is smaller, the unit of local self-government loses it, because it could get a lot more for that space for the same purpose, and it must according to this, if I read this article well, and must offer under the same conditions an extension of the contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think that's right. All I'm saying is if this space in the previous procedure is a competition or bidding in a certain way, there's been a maximum price. It is also good that this law addresses the issue that the units of local self-government, therefore municipalities and cities and counties are allowed to operate, first of all to the municipalities and cities, so that those business spaces which are not owned by the owner can continue to be managed in terms of renting, as well as those for which he owns, until their legal status is resolved ultimately, and this applies to those business premises that are in return, or may be returned, so we do not have a situation that is as empty as in large cities, especially in the city of Zagreb we have a lot of business spaces that are in that transition period. It is good, then, that even during that time they are used, that they carry out their activities, not to be a mockery of the city, but to look nice and to benefit the city, and one day when the owner returns to take over... his place which was returned to him takes over that and the borrower, and then when the contract expires, let him be resolved as he pleases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I see is the problem, it's not completely, it's not solved, it's not treated by this law, but it's treated by other laws, it's about those business spaces run by cities and municipalities that aren't owners, or for which they haven't gotten it by clear legal means, that they bought, replaced, replaced, etc., and that they don't return to the former owners, who pass into state ownership. That's a big problem. He doesn't treat me here. In this way, cities and municipalities will be left without a huge part of business space or will eventually remain only in those business premises that they bought or replaced with some other owner and will de facto move most of them into state property and into state management, which I think is wrong and for 2 reasons. Surely on the ground unit local self-government will manage a better team than someone from some state in Zagreb, from some asset management agency on the one hand, on the other hand, I think it is on the trail of building a highly centralised state of Croatia as it is and should seek a solution to therefore go into decentralisation and also in this part, so public property, but let it be managed by whoever is watching each day, who lives with it, and not by someone from the State Agency who neither sees or hears, nor knows what it is about. What I also see potentially controversial is in Article 38 when it's said to whom you can sell property, business space. And it's said that it can be sold to a physical or legal person who doesn't, so it can't be sold to the physical and legal person who uses that space, and has an outstanding obligation to the state budget, which is fine, according to local and regional self-government units, which is fine; employees, too, but also writes to suppliers. I don't know how it is, I think I'm interpreting if it's interpreted strictly and restrictively, it turns out that if someone is 5 days behind on a supplier they can't buy a business space. I suppose the intensity of this law is not in that sense because if it is then it is not good, then it should be changed. So, I think it's okay that you can't buy a business space by someone who has unsettled obligations to the state, to the city, to the employees, but not to the suppliers because if it's 15 days long for a supplier, what does that mean that he can't buy a business space? Who today has fulfilled all obligations? I think it's almost no entrepreneur, not a single craftsman, and this is mostly about small entrepreneurs and craftsmen. And finally, I think we should get back into the law what was in his first reading was in his proposal when it comes to the possibility of a meal payment. In the first reading, therefore, in the bill of law there was the possibility of buying out a business space at once, but also the possibility of a roundabout payment. She's not in the second reading, I think she should be returned. I think my colleague Lovrin has also made such an amendment, and we support it because, in these difficult economic conditions, it should be possible for small entrepreneurs and craftsmen to buy a business space, but if they are unable to buy it immediately and to cash it out all at the same time within 30 days to leave the possibility of giving them the opportunity to do so on a meal payment. Of course, with all the insurance that's possible and with interest as scheduled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75817	Thank you, dear colleague Jelusic. It is up to counterpart Marina Matulović Dropulić and the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75818	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's good to pass a law like this, and it's clear in the title that there's a law on the lease and purchase of a business space because, of course, all interested entities can, in one place, get all the necessary elements for all the actions they need to take if they're interested in renting or buying some space. The adoption of this law is foreseen as we have seen in the reasoning and the text of the reasoning is provided for by the programme of measures to simplify the business of small-scale operators, and it is also good that this proposal accepts the initiative of the Croatian Chamber of crafts to enable the sale of business space not only for those owned by the Republic of Croatia but also for all units of local self-government. We know that, say, the City of Zagreb has been struggling terribly with how it will succeed in selling these business spaces, so it didn't work. That is why it is good to have it equally resolved in all units of local self-government as well as in the state. The proposal was also accepted to extend the circle of entities that can buy business space to other entities, not only as a boredom to small-scale operators. This proposal has also been accepted because of the constitutional principle of justice and equality and entrepreneurship of all. The bill clearly defines who and how he can rent, or buy a business space. In the first instance, it is possible for the current tenants, but also for the users of the business space, if they have regularly complied with their obligations under the lease agreement and other financial obligations towards the tenants. the state and units of local self-government and, subject to an additional condition, the 5-year use of that space so that they can buy it, subject to the conditions laid down in this proposal of the law. It is important to point out once again that the business space can also be purchased by current users. and those who do not have a valid lease agreement if they carry out the permitted activity under the previously concluded lease agreement. That is what counterpart Jelusic was talking about, and it is clear why certain contracts did not extend. It is a condition for such sales that users regularly paid the owner a fee for the use of the business space and all costs resulting from the use of that space, etc. "recipient costs." The proposal is also accepted that business space will also be able to buy those who did not meet their obligations in due time if the previously agreed fee and the cost of use is fully agreed before the conclusion of the buy-in agreement. The proposal of the HDZ Club is that Article 33 paragraph 9 is complemented by the fact that those entities are obliged to pay unpaid amounts and legal interest because it would not be fair for some to pay neatly, and others simply have not paid for 3 years and that they remain the same. The commercial premises will be sold at the market price established by the authorised court expert, with this price reduced due to the investment of the tenants in the space itself, but no more than 30% of the market value of the business space and provided that the investments were subject to the consent of the owner of the space. This is especially important because one part of the tenants or the tenants now did not have the necessary consent and of course they were asked to reduce their rents and everything they were up to, what they could ask for. Therefore, all those who did not have the necessary consent cannot count on the basis of this proposal to reduce the market price. Decisions on the sale of a business space will be taken by the Agency for the Management of State Property, i.e. the authority responsible for the availability of real estate in units of the regional and local self-government, and any business premises which are not sold to the current tenant or user of the business space will be sold by public tender and in accordance with the regulation to be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia within 60 days or by the general acts of units of the district and local self-government within 90 days of the entry into force of this law. The problem spoken of by his colleague Jelusic is related to the Property Return Act, and we know that you would be very, very pleased to have the article 77 of this law abolished, but for now it is clear that the state has its own premises, units of local self-government, and so they will be sold. As I have already said in addition to the purchase of business space, this bill is also governed by the lease of business space negotiated with the current tenant or leased through a public tender. Exceptionally, of those provisions between the Republic of Croatia and the units of the regional and local self-government and the legal person owned or controlled by the Republic of Croatia or by a legal person owned or controlled by the units of the regional and local self-government may, without invitation to tender, conclude a contract on the lease of a business space if this is in the interest and the aim of the general economic and social progress of its citizens. This is a good provision that so far did not exist in the law and the units of local self-government without a public tender could not even rent to the state or to anyone. It is also very important to provide for Article 6(7) of this proposal, which determines that the principal right to enter into a contract on the lease of a business space is the persons of the Law on the Rights of the Croatian lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families if they meet the conditions laid down in the tender and from this law and accept the most offered amount of the lease as provisions of Article 31 that heirs or legal followers of the deceased employee enter into the rights of the tenant if they so wish. As a club of HZD, we have proposed certain amendments for clarification and for the full clarity of certain articles of this law. Therefore, we think that these amendments should be accepted. The proposal for a law lays down the possibility of cancelling the lease contract as well as any other conditions necessary to enable the commercial space to be properly used on the basis of the lease or purchase contract. Perhaps we should continue this debate until the end of this debate if we have time to think at all about what is very well suggested here that units of local self-government can be determined for the purpose of individual spaces in the city itself or in the municipality itself, but for the space that is owned by them. As my colleague, Mrs. Lovrin, said, should really consider that this also applies to areas that are state-owned. Therefore, these are things that should be clarified further. We think that the law should allow the payment of the purchase value to be paid, because if we have made it possible for apartments, if the bill on the legalisation of illegally built objects also provides that it can be bought out in wars, then we do not see any reason why craftsmen could not buy that space at the same time on payment. Then what I have already mentioned is the payment of the tight interest on the unpaid lease and the improvement of the text for the sake of clarity of expression, which is why, as Mr. Vice President said, we have proposed certain amendments. The HDZ Club will, of course, accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75819	Thank you very much, Your Honor. And now it's the Honorable representative of Danica Hursa, and she will speak for the club of HNS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75820	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable state secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The law on the lease and sale of business space is adopted under the programme of measures to simplify the business of small-scale operators adopted by the Government of 24.6.2010 and in accordance with the plan for the economic activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Economic Recovery Programme. However, even though the applicant states that making up a list of business premises depends primarily on ownership legal status and other legal circumstances relating to a specific business space, and therefore it is not possible to draw up, at once, a list of all business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia and units of local and regional self-government, but that list will be subsequently supplemented with regard to the determination of the above mentioned circumstances. However, we believe that this law should have preceded a full analysis of the data that would have been an integral part of the assessment of the situation together with the consequences of its adoption. How many such business spaces are owned by the Republic of Croatia, the County, the City of Zagreb, cities and municipalities? How much State funds are planning to earn by renting, and primarily by selling their assets i.e. Business space? There are also a few sentences about the final bill. Although the government put in place some significant remarks on the first reading of this law in the final proposal of this law, some provisions still seem to remain questionable. In the final draft of the law, as well as in the first reading in Article 33, only the possibility of selling a business space owned by the Republic of Croatia, the current tenant and the current user but under the conditions and procedure laid down in this law and in accordance with the regulation to be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a list of commercial premises which are subject to purchases which will be drawn up by the Agency for the Management of State Property and which the lists will be made public. An application for the purchase of a business space owned by the Republic of Croatia by the current tenant and the current user shall be submitted within 90 days of the public publication of the list of business premises covered by the purchase of the Agency for the Management of State Property. And when the agency will make a list of the business premises that are the subject of the purchase, it was not even in the first reading, and it is not in the final proposal, because the list will depend on when the current tenant or user will be able to submit a request for the purchase of the business space. The first reading provided for in Article 42(1) at that time that the Government would adopt that regulation on the basis of a list of commercial premises subject to purchases to be drawn up by the Agency for the Management of State Property, which will be made public, within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this Act. Now the regulation and the deadline for its adoption are not in the final draft of the law. For us at the HNS club, HSU, this is very problematic and I think that until the government's vote, we need to think about it and we think we need to get a deadline. A special space owned by units of local, regional and regional self-government may be sold to the current tenant who duly fulfils all the obligations under the lease agreement and other financial obligations towards the local and regional (regional) self-government unit under the terms and procedures laid down in this law and in accordance with the decisions to be made by the competent authorities of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government, on the basis of the list of commercial premises to be made public, that is to say to the current user under the terms and conditions laid down in this law and in accordance with the decisions to be made public by the competent authorities of the units of local and regional self-government, on the basis of a list of business premises which are subject to purchase. And the question here is, do we know when local self-government units are going to make a list of these business spaces? For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: The final draft of the law states that units of local self-government will adopt their general acts that will regulate the purchase of business space more closely within 90 days of the entry into force of this law. I ask the applicant to explain whether the list of business premises is a general act of the unit of local self-government to be adopted within that deadline. In the final proposal for a law with respect to the comments made in the debate, a good and useful provision has been deleted, which refers to the possibility of a round-the-clock payment of the purchase price of a business space which would primarily go hand in hand to craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. Here in that section we have information that the amendment has been submitted and we will really support it in a very warm way. It would also be good for the market price and value of unamortised investments of the current tenant, i.e. the user to determine the authorised judicial expert of the construction or architectural profession from the list of authorised court witches, but in the manner and by the procedure of public procurement. On Article 35(4) of the HNS Club, HSU thought to submit an amendment but we gave up, but I will ask the question anyway, so I ask what is it for market price promoters and which market price model benefits or foresees this law. And finally, the HNS club, HSU, welcomes the good intentions of this law, but we think that deadlines are of paramount importance, so what we have proposed is that both the government and the agency commit themselves to deadlines. How the government will react accordingly will also be the attitude of the HNS club, HSU under this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75821	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate now. First, an esteemed colleague, Đurjica Sumrak, checked in. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75822	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I won't be long in my debate because I don't think it's necessary at all, especially because the whole debate in front of the HDZ Club is respected MP Dropulic, of course I will support it and of course I should support it. I think everyone in this House has agreed to that. What is unusual to me is that it was, but today here are some craftsmen who came to me, since this law was adopted in one way and in their initiative, and there are about 100,000 craftsmen in Croatia, and more than half of them are either leased, whether they are local self-government owners, regional or state owners, and they will thus be able to buy their business space more transparently and more easily because this law makes clear the rules about it. What's very good, and that's this amendment by Mrs. Anne Lovrin, of course, to return the peddler's payment. It is very good especially for craftsmen, old traditional craftsmen, and I think that this special attention should be given especially to these crafts, according to these areas, or crafts, where they are located, and that they should be nursed and especially here and in this way that these people and craftsmen should be able to make a round of payments because they do not have expensive products, they are not any cafes or anyone else. They do their job, we keep the tradition of entering the European Union. This will be another confirmation of all our efforts and roots from where we come from and what it means to us. So I won't be long, I will, of course, support this law for many other reasons, and especially for the reasons that this law has given me the satisfaction of craftsmen, and by adopting these amendments of the HDZ Club and Ms. Ana Lovrin, and certainly some others who are good that we will have an excellent law on the pleasure of our craftsmen who are in reality the foundation of economic recovery in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75823	Thank you very much, Madam Representative. Let's go next and last reported for an individual hearing is the esteemed representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75824	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I also support the adoption of this law. I think he's twice as useful, and in my opinion, it's a reflection of a good business decision by the state to handle certain cases in this way. In the debate in all the together which has been spoken prevails actually the problem of the lease... rather than shopping, and indeed some things may need to be made more clear, as I have seen and suggested in the various amendments. [[You don't understand.]] I support the absolute expansion of the circle of those who would have the right to buy so that not only those micros are interpreted by small entities, small economies, but other craftsmen and businessmen have come into a position so that they can buy. As I said it was a special decision, as I said it was a special decision by the state to pass one of these laws that encourages the economy in the extreme case and helps fill the budget, so I would say the same thing in relation to the proposal that I see as being several times apostrophyd and confirmed about the possibility of a meal payment. I believe it is the same part of a business decision of the state as this Law that the State itself can make such a decision to make it possible to make the payment of the money. Because in that sense, the idea of selling a business space gets even more important. Although rural payment does not have to be an obligation, it is made possible, and this is particularly important for local and regional self-government units, which in such a way may be even more effective in gaining the right to react in a way that is more commercially appropriate to them. Therefore, by the continuity of the lease, by selling the whole immediately, and by perhaps certain concessions in relation to the price or to some meal payments. In any case, a much better order is being introduced into this problem. The tenants of the business space receive one security for planning their business policy in the future. And it's quite clear and logical that those who don't meet their financial obligations to the state can't be users of these I'd say no privileges, but allowed rights because they're simply wrong. In that sense, I absolutely support business hygiene as a key element and where luck that this hygiene... Now it's ruled out by accident. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] It refers to a specific terminology of certain articles, i.e. entering the area in a certain way of construction, which is primarily a matter of major changes. These categories are always undefined, and the issue of important changes should be more detailed, so in that sense I agree with the definition given especially in terms of the definition of a building block which is not the one that is used in practice but a useful whole that corresponds to the nature of it. But also in important changes that happen, we can't use terms like surface layouts because it's just not true. The layout of the surface is a question of how to use space. It may refer to its functionality, compared to certain changes. But the layout of the surface isn't a term used in construction, so one that's more recognizable in that should be found. Of course, it seems quite logical to me that someone who makes changes without the owner's permission if the lease is not entitled to that fee. It's quite logical in itself. But also the question of the compensation to interfere with the work mentioned above, which is mentioned in the same question whether more or less should be distinguished and the works that take place, which hinder any business in relation to two categories of work, which are categories which are necessary and necessary by law and logical and in the interest of the tenant. It's possible investment maintenance. Also current maintenance. So these are two categories that are meant to be an event in the work itself and are not some higher force that has made it impossible for someone to work and thus loses any benefit. And it seems logical for me to continue after someone's death, but not as a category of inheritance in the lease, but rather as a priority of the right to have someone who continues the same kind of activity or is a member of a family who holds such an economy, crafts or other to have certain priorities and to continue with it on the same key. Of course, in the case of selling space things are already in ownership relations and defined in a different way. So once again, I support the adoption and the elements of this Law as provided for in these supplements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75825	Thank you very much. No more reports. The final word will also be given by the proposal's representative, respectable Secretary of State Zoran Piculjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75826	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I thank you for these excellent discussions and for agreeing on the importance of this Law and on simple proposals that are very, very consistent. I can't. I said we'd have an amendment statement. They're all acceptable. It can be said in advance that they significantly specify the text and are in the spirit of this text, only further specify it. Maybe two answers that, which seem to be important and I think that fellow Members of the House, the ladies of Honor don't have. But she asked two questions about the possibility of buying space and perhaps making it difficult to buy because of the lack of a list of properties. It's just not like that. The census, the current tenants will be able to buy the property as soon as these general acts are drawn up, as soon as the procedural offices of the local self-government unit, are governed by the government regulation. It means very soon. And everything else, the list will be one current line, a line that will be constantly complemented and that will be filled, which will simply be constantly complemented. The market price model will be used, i.e., as a rule, a parallel method according to tax administration data, property-like values and probably other criteria, additional criteria. What the debate carried out, which is that it would be very convenient to accept the ring and the possibility of a rite payment. I think that's what wouldn't be worth underestimating, but installing it into the text. That's what we'll do through the amendment, accepting that amendment. And what I think is that my colleague Jelusic had one remark about, that is, a question or comment about the exceptions to the public tender that when it was sold to the current tenant, it was a good model. And he supported it, and of course a contract that the new one can be concluded under the same or other conditions. If both sides are not satisfied, there is a mechanism to be activated. It's a public tender mechanism. I thank you once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75827	Thank you very much. Here I am concluding the debate on this final bill and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75828	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs. As announced, we will now vote on the debated and closed agenda points, so please include checking the quorum. Let's turn ourselves in and make sure we're on. 89, we can decide. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on to the final draft of the law on the lease and sale of business space, there was a second reading, P.Z. No. 672, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The review of the amendment is divided into benches. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Ms Tatijana Vučetic, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75829	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since a large number of amendments have come to this law and since the adoption of such amendments in a large way changes the concept of the whole law, the Proposer proposes a third reading for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75830	Thank you. Who is for the Government's proposal to accept the third reading of this law please raise your hand. Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Restraint? There isn't. Accepted, going into third reading. That's how many votes to be exact, 108 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75831	We're moving to the 9th point of the agenda. This is - The final proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on improving cooperation in preventing and combating serious crime, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 821. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by post, and on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings, so amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was otherwise conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, and the Committee on Justice, and you received reports from the Committee at the session. The proposer's representative is a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior, Ivica Buconjic, so please make an opening statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75832	Thank you very much. Because... one brief explanation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to conclude an agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on improving cooperation in preventing and combating serious crime, you have established a legal framework in the relations between the Republic of Croatia and the United States concerning the deepening of cooperation in the field of mutual exchange of reference data from the files of national automatic fingerprint identification systems, access to reference data in analytical DNA files is defined, as well as the supply of personal and other data. The agreement was signed in Washington on 16 February 2011 for the Government of the Republic of Croatia by Minister Karamarko, and for the Government of the United States of America Ms. Janet Napolitt, Minister of Homeland Security, and Mr. Eric Holder, chief state attorney and minister of justice, otherwise by ratifying this agreement, which is the very signing of the agreement, Croatia has taken two more significant steps, in the area of cooperation with the United States in the fight against the most difficult forms of crime, but also in bringing the criteria for exemption from visas, and we expect that Croatia will be even closer to the US without visas after the act and under this agreement. The application of this Agreement will not require any additional resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75833	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. We're going clubbing. First of all, the HDZ Club, a respected representative of Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75834	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on improving cooperation in preventing and combating serious crime establishes a legal framework for the cooperation of the two countries in the field of mutual exchange of reference data from the files of national automatic fingerprints identification systems. Access to reference data in analytical DNA files is regulated, and the way in which personal data are supplied is prescribed, as well as other data exchanged. It is well known that international co-operation is the main factor in preventing and effectively combating organised crime, so this agreement has special importance in further improving mutual cooperation and developing the friendly relations between the two countries. The goal expected to achieve this agreement is to coordinate joint action in the fight against all forms of crime, especially terrorism. For the purpose of carrying out this contract, the parties shall ensure the availability of recent data from the files of national automatic fingerprints identification systems established to prevent and investigate criminal offences. Each Party shall determine one or more contact centres by agreement. The Contact Centre shall provide data in accordance with its country's national legislation. In addition to automatic access to DNA profiles, personal and other data have been elaborated to prevent serious crime and terrorist acts, as well as the issue of privacy and data protection. Nothing in this Agreement restricts or challenges the provisions of any international agreement between the police agencies or national legislation allowing for the exchange of information between the Republic of Croatia and the United States, with the wish that the entry into force of this Treaty would create assumptions for the effective implementation of all forms of cooperation provided for in the agreement, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the United States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75835	Thank you, Mr. Representative. The other registered club is the club of HNS and HSU, and on behalf of the club the respected representative Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75836	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States on the promotion of cooperation in the prevention and fight against serious crime, which is an element of further improvement and deepening of mutual cooperation between the two countries. It establishes a legal framework on the relations of the Republic of Croatia and the United States in the field of mutual exchange of reference data from national automatic fingerprint identification files, defines access to reference data in analytical DNA files, as well as the supply of personal and other data. The legal framework for the security cooperation of the Republic of Croatia and the United States related to the inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in the US visa exemption programme is also finalised. The objective of the agreement is to improve the effectiveness and coordination of joint actions in the fight against all forms of crime. The main issues proposed to be regulated by this law are the establishment of a legal framework for the cooperation of the two countries in the field of mutual exchange of reference data from national systems files, for the automatic identification of fingerprints, for the regulation of access to reference data in analytical DNA files, and for the provision of methods of mutual delivery of personal and other data. These questions are more detailed in Articles 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11. The MUP believes that the agreement meets all legal assumptions that the Republic of Croatia would enter the US visa exemption programme. Our media interpret the agreement as a step towards achieving this goal, which has great symbolic and practical significance. For Croatian citizens, this means less procedural trouble in planning travel to the United States, and at political level, it is a sign that Croatia is becoming a completely non-problematic country for the world's greatest security force. However, more careful reading of the text of the agreement also opens up some problems and asks several questions. The first problems are visible in Article 4. – for the prevention and investigation of serious crime, each party shall allow the national contact centres of the other Party to access the reference data in an automated fingerprint identification system established for this purpose with the power to carry out electronic access to data on a comparison of fingerprints data. In 2006, AFIS was introduced to the Center for Criminal Arts "Ivan Vučetic" in Zagreb. Since then, it has not been certain how much progress has been made on this matter and how much this system has been applied to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the first place. Article 5 points to alternative means of access to the data on request using identification data, but for Croatia and alternative measures are not applicable since Croatia, although among the last ones, has purchased AFIS. Other problems related to the agreement arise from Article 8. If permitted under national law, both parties and on the basis of the mutuality of the party may allow each other to have their national contact centres etc. they have access to reference data in their analytical DNA files, the end of the quote, or that article, it is obvious that the United States is also implementing such measures with other partner countries. But the Republic of Croatia is not ready for these measures because the application of DNA files is not included in our legislative system. In view of all the above, the measures necessary for the conclusion of this Agreement are still not applicable to the Republic of Croatia because Croatia has not met the conditions set out in relation to the application of the DNA file and AFIS. Article 25 states that the agreement shall enter into force on the date of the last written notification by which the parties notify each other by diplomatic means that their internal legal procedures are finalised necessary for the entry into force of this Agreement. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, in addition to these infrastructure problems, the United States has another prerequisite that a country must meet before its citizens can travel to the United States without a visa. That the rate of denied visa applications is less than 3%. The rate of denied visas for citizens of the Republic of Croatia is currently around 5%. This is one of the basic criteria and until it is met we cannot expect to enter the visa waiver programme. The other media seem to agree, noting that this is a key element for further negotiations and the only remaining open issue. The fact is, other than those figures, all the other reasons for visa waiver are there. Biometric passports have been introduced, Croatian security standards agree with US requirements, and if the disputed 2% of visas are resolved or the US exemption will no longer be required. In 2009, the percentage of denied visas was 10%, which would include the Republic of Croatia in countries with a low rate of denied visas. But after the percentage is tightened to 3%, Croatia has yet another obstacle to the conclusion of the agreement. The HNS-HSU club will support this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75837	Thank you very much. No more registered clubs, we have 1 individual debate, respected representative Niko Rebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75838	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States on the improvement of cooperation in the prevention and fight against serious crime is, in fact, the result, namely during our stay in the United States on 16 February this year in Washington, we signed for the Government of the Ministry of Interior, and for the Government of the United States, Mrs Napolitano Minister of Homeland Security and Mr Eric Holder, Chief State Attorney and Minister of Justice. This is actually another one in a series of bilateral contracts between the two countries that have legally been regulated a whole series of areas of interest for both countries. In these last 20 years, since the creation of an independent state, the Republic of Croatia and the United States have signed about 40 agreements and contracts, and for what purpose? In fact, it is always the aim of strengthening mutual cooperation, and this objective is also to achieve the basis of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America to prevent and combat serious crime, and to improve the effectiveness and coordination of joint actions in the fight against all forms of crime, and for this reason there is a need for the operation in this area to be governed by a bilateral international contract. The conclusion of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States on the promotion of cooperation in the prevention and fight against crime establishes a legal framework in relations between the Republic of Croatia and the United States concerning the deepening of cooperation in the field of mutual exchange of reference data from the files of national automatic fingerprints identification systems, defines the access of data in analytical DNA files as well as the supply of personal and other data. The conclusion of the agreement finalises the legal framework for US security cooperation with Member States and those wanted in the US visa exemption programme. At the same time, the conclusion of the agreement in question is an important step towards ending the multi-year efforts of the Croatian and US sides to regulate bilateral relations in the area of internal affairs through an appropriate agreement between the two countries on police co-operation. The Law attesting the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States on the promotion of cooperation in the prevention and fight against serious crime confirms that its provisions within the meaning of the Constitutional Law would enter into force. Therefore, given that this agreement has already been signed in the end, given the nature of the procedure for confirming international contracts and formally expressing the willingness to be bound by already signed international contracts and the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, the amendments or additions to the text of the international contract cannot be made, I believe that this should be adopted by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75839	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this final bill. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75840	We move to the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the improvement of cooperation in the prevention and fight against serious crime, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 821 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the improvement of cooperation in the prevention and fight against serious crime. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 99 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75841	We move to the 10th point of this consolidated agenda, the 10th and for today's final point. It's a - Proposal for a Law on the Ombudsman, first reading, P.Z. No. 833 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received reports from the board at the session. An additional explanation of the proposal on behalf of the promoter will be given by the respected Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75842	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. We have before us a proposal for a Law on the Attorney General, so it's an extremely important law. It goes into regular procedure, therefore, in two readings, and it is very important for us to get the opinion of our Parliament on the law itself, of course the proposals and remarks we will analyse everything and then prepare the law for a second reading. The Attorney General is an institution that has seen some changes in the last constitutional changes, and accordingly we have joined the creation of a new Law on the Ombudsman. The Attorney General is an independent and independent institution of the authorised Croatian Parliament that protects and promotes fundamental human rights. In their actions, the Ombudsman takes the complaint, receives various requests from citizens and other persons of the Republic of Croatia who have certain objections to the conduct of state bodies, the bodies of local self-government units, and they point to certain failures, they indicate that human rights have been violated in certain proceedings. The occupier then has a whole series of current laws and, of course, according to the proposal of this law, a whole series of instruments and the ability to influence it to indicate that something was wrong, to give advice, to make recommendations and such rules remain today. What we haven't done in relation to the current law seems to me as one step we didn't have the procedural rules of how the attorney general acts. Here, in this new concept of the law, we have explained the correct procedure of applying for a complaint, as it should normally be contained, how the Ombudsman continues to act. But what's fundamental to this law is a whole new concept and a significantly different concept than what we have today. This concept comes from the fact that we want to strengthen the Ombudsman and that we want to actually strengthen the very protection of fundamental human rights and those most sensitive groups of societies. In today's system, we still have an attorney for the protection of children's rights, a lawyer for the protection of gender equality, a lawyer for the protection of disabled people. By this law, we actually bring all these institutions together into one. We want to put all these institutions in the Office of the Public Attorneys and thus use all the professional potentials that exist today already in the framework of these defense attorneys' offices dealing with the protection of fundamental rights each in a particular segment of the population. We want to create one coordination and create one synergy of all the quality that exists today and one coordination of work that we cannot say today is present. Namely, the attorney general has his own circle of action, and special specializing lawyers have their own circle. With a merger like this but at the same time left a very wide circle of autonomy, the freedom of action of each of us in our segments we think we will achieve this goal of making that protection of rights as much as possible better, that coordination is better. And what's very important today is that these attorneys are, we say, not a constitutional category. Through these changes, they receive one status actually within the Office of the Ombudsman also one constitutional legal category. And what we can say is impossible in front of certain international legal institutions that they can perform on their own today, because they can be represented by a civil defender, today, under the proposal of this law as deputy attorney general, they too will be able to perform. The law also prescribed the way they were appointed. It is precisely prescribed which conditions should be met by the Advocate General. So we are still looking for a special profession for the attorney general, which is the Faculty of Law, 15 years of experience in the work, evidence in the field of protection of fundamental human rights. As far as deputies are concerned, we've been looking for 10 years, not a condition of law school, but we're looking for 10 years of experience in the profession they've been engaged in and also certain qualities and visibility in the work of exactly the segment that you'd been chosen for. The Attorney General's office would unite all the resources we have and in the transitional provisions we've defined precisely to implement, to implement the merger of these offices. All the people who are within the current offices of the specialised attorneys would become part of this system as to how to say, no one would stay out of the system, all of them would be taken over and deployed according to their professional abilities and, of course, prepared. What's important is that the vacancy attorney would have deputies, so he would have a deputy for child rights, for the protection of gender equality, for the protection of disabled persons, but would introduce a new deputy, deputy for older persons and would be a special substitute for the protection of fundamental human rights and of course for promotion. You see, in this law we also give a special accent to the promotion of human rights, not only therefore protection but also promotion, which is also a very important segment of action. The Ombudsman would adopt a Rules of Procedure where he would define exactly how work would be done, where he would define the maintenance of colleges, where exactly the performances would be defined, to inform the public of certain issues. It would also adopt a Regulation on Systematisation and Internal Order where it would define exactly how many jobs it is, which are jobs and, by a regulation of the Ombudsman, the Secretary-General would manage it. According to this concept of the law, therefore, which was first read by the Ombudsman would have chosen his own deputies and would have chosen a single advice as one body composed of representatives and civil associations and NGOs and all those who, in fact, each in a particular segment of protection of fundamental human rights, have certain competences so that this advice could give him certain suggestions, certain opinions regarding its activities and its work. As for his way of working, there is no doubt, certain values that exist today, and that is his communication with both the Government and the Croatian Parliament. They may also be more precise and elaborated here. The Ombudsman will therefore have the right to participate both in the work of the Parliament and in the work of the working bodies of the Parliament and in the work of the Government, especially in all those issues concerning fundamental human rights. He will be able, of course, to make proposals today to improve the situation in certain areas. It is also provided for by law to report to the Assembly once a year by a regular report, but it is possible to submit a report on specific areas. Here's the shortest thing we're proposing for a new Law on the Attorney General. I repeat again, this is a whole new concept, a brand-new organization of the Office of the Attorney General. We believe that the fundamental objective of this law is to strengthen the Office of the Ombudsman and, of course, better coordination and use of resources, and related to the defenders who exist with regard to the protection of those other sensitive groups of society. With special interest, of course, we will analyse and see all the comments. We have already heard a lot of good suggestions on some committees today that I can already say that we are going to take them seriously, and some of us are sure to put into the draft law for a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75843	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open up the debate, first by the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75844	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Justice Minister, State Secretary with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. Before us is the law, the draft Law on the Ombudsman, our constitutional obligation after the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, our successful conclusion of negotiations and recommendations for the conclusion of negotiations for Croatia's entry into the European Union, Chapter 23. This way, I congratulate the minister on everything you have done as Minister of Justice for Croatia in this chapter to successfully complete this and this law that we were obliged to pass in accordance with constitutional changes and the law was made in accordance with the amendments to the Constitution that we adopted last year in July. The proposed legislative solution explicitly defines the Ombudsman as an independent and independent institution that protects and promotes human rights, which is in line with Paris' principles. These principles speak of independence to the Constitution, autonomy to state authorities,... in the form of membership, powers to protect and promote human rights and to carry out investigative activities. [[You don't understand.]] So this legislative proposal gives full new powers to the attorney general. Since the Law on the Ombudsman was passed in 1992, the old law, now in force did not contain procedural provisions. In this proposal for a law, the Advocate General shall receive special powers as a special independent body, and in particular powers under Article 12. The Law on Discussing Discrimination as well as the obligations made by the Republic of Croatia by signing the Faculty Protocol with the Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishments that took effect on our country on 22 June 2006. With this proposal of the law, the Ombudsman therefore receives special powers and will be able to participate more directly in the work of the Croatian Parliament, in the work of the Board of the Croatian Parliament and to make direct proposals with only the adoption of legislative solutions. What may be controversial, quite a commentary in public, is the merger of existing professional and administrative capacities of specialising lawyers' offices and human rights centres with the Office of the Police Attorney, which will achieve better co-ordination, efficiency of dealing with citizens' representations. What is important for the Croatian Democratic Community club, that this merger of specialised defenders will not endanger anyone's fundamental rights or the rights that specialised defenders have protected and promoted but that, in fact, it will be the coordination of joint bodies that go towards strengthening these rights and for the effectiveness of the actions of the specialised lawyers themselves. The implementation and recommendations they make so far have been strengthened by the civil defenders and specialised lawyers, so here through the Croatian Assembly report, better efficiency of these reports is achieved and the direct impact of the recommendations that can be made by the Ombudsman under the new draft law to the Croatian Parliament. What we have so far had were reports that we supported or did not support, given the way the report was presented to the Croatian Assembly through these changes, and through this merger the report will also receive special importance for the Croatian Parliament, and a clearer public picture of the problem that each of the so far specialized occupiers has represented in their work. What is good should certainly be supported, and the important thing is that none of the rights of this merger will be compromised. What we can still talk about is this is the first reading of the law, we predicted that this law goes into two readings. All those recommendations, discussions with the board, all that will be in order to strengthen this bill and those which will therefore improve the very success of the law should certainly be considered in the second reading. An important paper in this Act is the introduction of a deputy occupier for the protection and promotion of fundamental rights, as well as a deputy occupier for older persons, especially with regard to the population of the Republic of Croatia. So this is another reinforcement, and in line with the European Commission's recommendations in Chapter 23. The law provided for will enter into force on 1 January 2012. This Law does not require additional financial resources, no additional employment is needed, and it is essential to say, in particular, that we will have more time in the debates that this merger and this bill is by no means going towards the improvement of rights but rather to the promotion and we certainly need to support this law to bring it in accordance with our constitutional obligations within the legal time limits. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the bill in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75845	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Next up is the SDP club. In the name of the club, a respected representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75846	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. In his opening statement of the bill, the minister said, among other things, that there is an extremely important law in front of us, which we, of course, agree on at the SDP club. However, I will immediately say that there is such an extremely important law in its reasoning that there is one piece of paper from which, in the end, it is not clear why the law is proposed in this form. However, in my final review of the 2010 report, the Ombudsman also reminded you of the need and obligation to comply with the provisions of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by the end of April 2011. This new Law on the Ombudsman should also be defined and developed by amending the Constitution and by the previous adoption of the Law on Discrimination and Discrimination and the Law on the National Prevention Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman, Demeaning Procedures and Penalty. However, it is also necessary to adopt the law in the light of criterion 9 when closing Chapter 23, which concerns the need to strengthen the office and implement recommendations by the Advocate General. We at the SDP club are particularly emphasising this. The implementation of recommendations by the Ombudsman is, however, clear that we all know that every year, the report of the Ombudsman is received by this Assembly, because most in this House, unfortunately, as if he forgets that the Ombudsman is the authority of the Croatian Parliament for the protection and promotion of human rights and freedoms, as well as the rule of law, by considering complaints of citizens about the existence of illegality and irregularities in the work of state bodies, the bodies of the unit of local and regional self-government and legal persons with public authority. The problem arises at a time when it is realised that these bodies, the public defender's bodies, are perceived as some kind of democracy decoration, and not as a body whose voice should be heard and whose recommendations should be respected, and then correct their behaviour and actions, and not that in the reports of the Ombudsman, we have in black on white for the last few years repeat the facts of insufficient care and efficiency in protecting the fundamental human rights of the citizens of this country, and all because all these years the Government refuses that the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia needs to be realistically and critically spoken, and therefore correct its behaviour where human rights are being threatened or violated, and in the sense of further strengthening of the human rights of all citizens and citizens and their effective protection. Therefore, it is also required to strengthen the capacity of the Ombudsman's Office as part of the already mentioned criterion 9. But how does the government actually understand this capacity building? So, in the parliamentary procedure, it sends a bill that actually no one is satisfied with except for the proposings themselves, which even the working group established for the purpose of drawing up this bill has kind of been fenced. Through the discussion on committees, we heard that this working group was made up of distinguished experts, academics, representatives of different institutions. In addition to the institutions of special defences, but in the end, we have what is most important that we have a bill against the Ombudsman himself, and it was made public at committee meetings, among other things, in this House. According to his claims, such a law does not contribute to the strengthening of the capacity of the attorney general, but basically means the weakness of the Office of the Attorney General and the institution of the Ombudsman. The SDP club agrees and supports this view by the Ombudsman. Namely, the new draft law gives the Advocate General the truth, according to your proposal, to the deputies recruited from the ranks of these special regiments, special defences and plus to the deputy staff attorney for older persons, but leaves without their two deputies covering the areas of discrimination, the area of justice, the area of police, persons deprived of freedoms, health care, social care, labour relations, reconstruction as well as other areas which will now cover however, turns out to be just that one deputy. Furthermore, since the initial request, i.e. an idea supported by specific analyses to ensure the merger of the Centre for Human Rights with the Office of the Attorney General in order to promote human rights, someone, along the way, claimed at the SDP Club that it would be very convenient to get rid of several private attorneys and drown them in the Office of the Public Attorney. We stress this someone remembered, because with all the efforts of our parliamentary representatives, the questions we have asked, the reactions of different associations from different areas cannot be figured out whose idea it is, in fact, as if everyone were disowning today's authors to this idea. So I will now take advantage of the opportunity that Mr. Minister is here so that here is an answer to the question whose fundamental idea is that the special defences that have been around for many years, they work in the Republic of Croatia internationally, have excellent results behind them. So who came up with the idea that they were dodied and drowned, I repeat the utopia in the office of the attorney general, I will be so free to say that I only have the information that it is someone's political decision, which is not supported by any analysis, nothing so concrete that would indicate that in Croatia these three defence attorneys are unnecessary and that they need to be installed in the office of the attorney general. Turns out, when there's someone out there who's imaginary making such a political decision, I can only say that it was then taken somewhere with the highest levels of the ruling coalition, maybe the Prime Minister, the government as such, I don't know, but I'd like to know the answer whose idea it is, because it's the idea of a working group, the people who worked inside as far as I know. It should also be pointed out that again according to the information we have, that the working group in its proposal when the work was completed, this first bill was not with the addition of the special defence offices, but that it was subsequently done, and therefore concerns the fact that neither the three defence attorneys were included in the draft law from the outset, but only after the bill had already been completed. And basically to this day, because from this blatant argument that goes along with this bill remains unclear, completely unclear what the arguments are or what motives to come up with this proposal. In this shrub, the government's argument was not meaningfully explained, Mr. Minister, that you did not succeed in either your opening argument or the argument that coordination and mutual cooperation will improve, as if it depends on whether they are all under the same cap, I suppose no special building will be built in which they will all move together, but will be relocated somewhere, and what synergis, in what sense the synergistic effect is, and therefore we in the SDP can only conclude that the legislator and those who came to this idea absolutely do not know the problem they are trying to talk about, and in particular did not respect the fact that a number of relevant international and domestic subjects, associations and individuals opposed to this law and letters of support the full arguments and warnings against the defence of the defendant. I think you have all these letters, and all these reactions from international levels, but also from domestics, which is extremely important to us. We all agree in this suppose hall, at least as far as the SDP's office is concerned that a certain number of experts and experts are missing, so in terms of the number of people, and also in terms of finances, and for many years the Ombudsman's office has been warned, and of course the office needs to be strengthened, but we consider such a bill to be an ordinary maneuver's move, which only gives a glimpse of human strength and creates a fiction of a strengthened office of the occupier, and that only to meet the formal standard of 9th, the closure of chapter 23, and we consider it dangerous, and we consider it to be a bad, not only for further improvement and protection of the rights of these special categories, such as children, persons with disabilities and women, but it is a generally a bad approach to protect human rights, as well as an approach to laws that are unsensedicipating matter. So we at the SDP club believe that on the one hand, the protection of certain categories of society, in this case women, children, persons with disabilities for whom Croatia has, for several years, been determined by consensus in this House that they need greater protection and greater visibility in society, and this is achieved by establishing special defences, that they will now be weakened, because even this proposal does not intend to, for example, be. Special departments may be formed within the office of the attorney general. So the protection of these categories is objectively weakened, because, and we assume it now, but from this proposal of the law, the existing resources are used to cover other areas of human rights, and people who are now entering the office of the occupier, they have not done this problem so far, in that part they are not professional, trained because they are professional, trained for special types of discrimination, and in fact we do not consider it a strengthening of the office of the Ombudsman, so it is not a matter of strengthening the office of the Ombudsman. We support at the SDP Club once again the opinion of the Ombudsman and the request of the Ombudsman to reject from this bill provisions that speak of merger, abolishing, dodging however you wish, and that the original idea is realized, so that in the office of the Ombudsman, the Centre for Human Rights is joined, and that this will be greatly strengthened by his work, and finally all of us at the club know, and we have been having discussions, in Croatia there will certainly be different solutions in the future, when it comes to the status of the Ombudsman, but Croatia has re-determined itself, and it is shown as a success that he has special defences and that he has the Office of the Ombudsman. In addition, we would like to warn you of another fact, when you mentioned it, you mentioned Mr. Minister that now these special, defense attorneys will become a constitutional category. It won't become a constitutional category. The Constitution still holds the Attorney General. Secondly, when we talk about international institutions, so of course special defenders at the invitation of international institutions can step forward, that tomorrow... The commission, the... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The committee invites the lawyer for gender equality to submit a report, she will do so, she certainly won't refuse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Moreover, while we are already on this example of the European Ombudsman for Gender Equality and Problem that the current lawyers will lose their functional independence, I would like to remind you that according to one of the European Union's 2006 directives on gender equality requires the establishment of a separate independent body. I remind you that in the creation of the 2008 Law on Gender Equality, therefore this independent body has been appointed as the Advocate for Gender Equality and this law has passed unlike the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination of the European Commission, it has received a positive opinion. In this way now and not only when it comes to the prosecutor's office for gender equality but also these other defence attorneys, so I repeat as a SDP club we oppose this bill. I repeat, we believe that this on the one hand means a deterioration in the protection of the rights of these specific categories, and on the other hand it does not in any way strengthen the Office of the Attorney General and we call on the Government that if they do not already listen to the SDP club, then at least listen to the opinion of the Ombudsman when it comes to what this bill will ultimately look like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75847	Thank you very much. One is the correction of an incorrect allegation, the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75848	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here I would like, several incorrect allegations in the presentation of fellow Sobol, but when she talks about abolishing, dodging, drowning, she's basically talking about disappearing. That's an incorrect claim. And precisely because of such incorrect claims, the public was irritated. In fact, it's a merger, and it's exactly what it says, if you read what it says and you wanted to understand what it's all about, then you wouldn't talk like that. And another, I'm sorry, is the incorrect claim that it refuses to discuss the state of human rights in Croatia and that this government refuses to do so. That's not true at all, that's what you said and that's incorrect. And the attorney general can't and should be strengthened. This government has strengthened the D.A.'s office. And you know why he needs to be strengthened even more? Because let's just say mayor Vukovar can't, where he's three times, and we've sent the same thing, and he's made recommendations, no, he's deafening himself to all his allegations equally to Trogir. They're the mayors of the SDP, you're saying something, and your party people don't respect that same occupier. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75849	Thank you very much. Also registered is the HNS-HSU club, respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75850	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. When the Croatian Parliament made a decision on amendments and additions to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, one of the topics covered by the amendments to the Constitution was an attempt to further define or at least specify the powers of the Ombudsman, and then the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution was defined by a deadline which we thought was mandatory in which it was necessary to comply with all the regulations that came out of the amendments and the addition of the Constitution and it turned out to be actually an instructive period that clearly did not oblige anyone. By ignoring such a type that there is an obligation to apply new solutions from the Constitution to the laws of the Republic of Croatia we have shown in fact what we think of the Constitution. I remind you that the Constitutional Law was passed in October, and that a working group, a working group that was to prepare a proposal for legal solutions that would be strengthened by the institution of the Ombudsman was established only in January, met for the first time a month later. Therefore, there was a obligation of legal force for the institution of the attorney general. On the other hand, for almost a year, an expert task of one special team of the UNDP team was carried out to assess the functionality of the Office of the Public Prosecutor and to propose some new solutions. And the study has shown that there are some models of strengthening an institution that should be taken into account. On the third hand, the practice so far has shown that the government has had a very big attitude towards the institution of the occupier. And while it is the job of the attorney general to make all those who create a wall between citizens and their rights manifest and in some way force them to do the work they are required by law, the government has seen criticism and recommendations from the Ombudsman as an attack on its own policy. So it was fully expected that even when new legal solutions are discussed that need to be strengthened by the institution of the Ombudsman, they would actually use political and not other criteria. There is no secret HNS has since the first beginning of the functioning of the institution of the occupier pointed out how important it is to protect, promote human rights and to help citizens whose rights are threatened or threatened. A process followed, which had its own resonation, is that in the absence of a strong and well-developed ombudsman institution, special defences are also formed. At one point of the process, however, it became clear to someone in the interest that inflation of the defence institutions in the Republic of Croatia is, in fact, not only weakens the position of the attorney general but also their position. So not only did we have special servitude for children, gender equality and persons with disabilities but it should be remembered not so long ago were the ideas to establish a special servitude that would concern the defence population, especially the servitude of older people, especially the ombudsman that would address the question of the right to access information, and then it became clear that this inflation had its own political reson, which is to weaken all these institutions. At that time, the HNS strongly agreed with the initiative to re-examine the whole system and see if it was good to have 5, 6 or 7 of them as one constitutional category, and in fact to place obstacles on all steps or to have strong defences, at least one, but which state administration, bureaucracy and those paid by the state to enforce the law and protect citizens' rights will fear. So, that they will enforce the laws and respect the citizens of this country. The Attorney General was not generally against the idea of opening that debate, even more so. I will remind you that in the 2006 recommendations, it has been 5 years since then, he proposed to the Croatian Parliament to open the topic and to discuss it well, not to tie it to any specific report but to keep up with the ongoing debate which is a model of defence or defence that can give the most desirable effects in the long term if we really want to build a society that protects, promotes, guarantees human rights. The proposals of the occupier were not only ignored for 5 years, but we also witnessed the performances in which the ruling majority sent very clear political messages with the so-called so-called. The Institute of Knowledge. This humiliated the institution of the attorney general and certainly diminished authority. However, once a political consensus has already been reached on constitutional changes which, in line with the criterion set out in Chapter 23, the need to empower the institution of the vengeful lawyer was then, I guess, the minimum of decency was to consult both the plebes and the other lawyers and include them in this process. The task force has created a platform and it has almost nothing to do with the bill before us, and the proceedings were not attended by the attorneys at all. Is it good that the institutions headed by Advocate General Mrs Jelavic, Mrs Lukac-Koritnik and Mrs. Slonješak who have made huge efforts to develop these institutions and reach this level of social reputation to be completely excluded from this process? The members of the task force withdrew from the task force declaring that this proposal is not a proposal that they can stand by and that this is a political solution that they cannot cover with their authority. The Attorney General sent a letter to the Prime Minister, sent a letter to all institutions and to all clubs of MPs proposing to give up this model and to follow what is written in the Constitution and what is stated in criterion 9, which is to meet those criteria that will indeed strengthen the institution of the attorney general and that this automation opens up a public debate that we see in the future as a final long-term, functional solution to the defence system. Therefore, that the special defences are not abolished or mechanically combined at this time, but rather to make changes that are necessary and dissuasive from the Constitution, are derived from criterion 9 and to open a solid, high-quality and professionally based debate on how to position the other defences. That didn't happen. No one answered with the Attorney General. How do we convince the public that the government really wants to strengthen the institution of the occupier when it won't answer his letter? How are we going to prove that the stronger institution of the occupier, who has three assistants at the moment, is actually being told that in the future they will only have one for fundamental human rights? How do we say that we have strengthened the institution of the occupier with this solution when the system will continue to operate at 7 locations and when the actual level of integration and coordination will be such that it will actually depend on the government's goodwill. Because first of all this model will dictate the budgetary policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Measure 9 is clear as a day, it is said, which means empowering the institution of the Ombudsman and mentioning among other things the institution's funding. Every year, we have reports from both the attorney general and all the attorneys. It's an ideal opportunity to see actually how we treat what they're doing, formally, superficially, politically. Establishing an atmosphere that the occupier is a rival to the government, which is completely unnecessary. That's not true. It can't be. The government is a political body. It is she who is precisely in the work of the institution of the attorney general and the special defences has a great tool in her hands how to get the state's exactly how to red tape, how to make the system that needs to implement the laws really bring purpose, because this system is glomic, ineffective, and we can see from the reports that she is planting the clips in the realization of the tasks or the fulfilment of the law. It's not the government that is being hit with the forehead by citizens in an inability to exercise their rights but red tape. And the government obviously identified itself with that bureaucracy because it stood by it, and that's not good. Three years here in this House mentioned the name of the Assistant Minister of Interior, who was listed in the Ombudsman's reports to prevent the realization and solution of certain problems. He didn't miss a lip from his salary. He's still in the state administration today. And today? Today we have a model of mechanical merger in which we will have four times more accounting and accounting, administrative drive, 7 locations and more. No one has said a single word about the regionalization of the work of the defence system on how to make the public defender and the mechanisms he has at his disposal closer to the people in Konavla, Ilok, Karlovac or in Kastav. No one's talking about it. We're going to get a model where 60 people are going to work, nominally it's a big drive, it's a good company that you'd say. But whether it will be a functional system in which practically only one person will be able to talk to all the parties that have come to the Office of the Attorney General to all those people who spoke to him. So far, three people have covered this job, and now only one of them is going to be because all the other deputies will have special subtextors. If it's strengthening the HNS is not for it and it's, we openly claim, the HNS and HSU club is behind the score, this is playing criterion 9 of Chapter 23 and whoever thinks they'll naively cheat those who will conduct monitoring are doing us a very bad service. It's not work for the good of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75851	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. The correction of the incorrect quote has a respected representative Ivo Grbić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75852	I'd just like to correct my colleague. He probably didn't get a good look at this proposal. For example, in Article 40(3), the headquarters of the offices in Zagreb stands, and the Ombudsman may also set up district offices outside the office headquarters. Therefore, it is not true that it cannot be at regional level of the office.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75853	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates. First, a respected representative, Mirela Holly, signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75854	Thank you, Your Honor. At the very beginning of the presentation of the Law on the Ombudsman, I can say that it is commendable that we are discussing this extremely important law in a regular, rather than an emergency procedure which has become a very rare exception in the Croatian Parliament in the last few years, not a rule. Unfortunately, my praises to this bill are exhausting, and I can only say that I sincerely hope that this debate will be a right one, not a cosmetic debate, or that all numerous remarks at the expense of this law will be made during the debate and on committees, as well as at this plenary session will be seriously considered and accepted to save what we simply have to. Namely, the role and importance of the attorney general in modern democratic societies with the rule of law and civil values is too important in order to gamble irresponsiblely and irresponsibly with it. On this occasion, I would particularly like to stress that the vast majority of civil society in Croatia, and in particular the segment that deals with human rights, have responded explicitly negatively to this bill and have expressed their critical relationship with this law to a whole series of concepts, but unfortunately they have not resulted in the corrections of the law. That is why I am afraid that this debate on the bill will serve only for cosmetics and not for essential purposes, namely that the result of the debate will unfortunately not be a correction of the law. I will take this opportunity to present to the honourable representatives of the Government or the Ministry the remarks I have received from the representatives and representatives of the civil sector that I have been working with for years and which are indeed the real, true civil sector in Croatia. It is about the following organizations: the Association of Sjaj, a association that deals with the rights of persons with mental and mental disorders, and then with the Autonomous Women's House of Zagreb, which, as probably almost everyone knows, deals with the problem of women's rights, especially women's rights exposed to family and sexual violence. Step, the Centre for the Rights of Sexual and Birth Minorities and ZamirNET, the Network, a portal that deals with promoting the values of civil society and protecting human rights. Unfortunately, not even this extremely important law, a law that stems directly from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as well as a whole series of other extremely important laws for Croatia, has not been implemented before public debate. The only thing that has been spinning in the public for months is more at the level of rumor or gossip, not the verified information, as well as the announcement of the merger of the institution of the Ombudsman with the institutions of the Ombudsman for children, gender equality and persons with disabilities, as well as the accession of the Centre for Human Rights to the institution. It is unfortunate if the ministry and the government feel that this release of rumors represented a previous public debate. The main reason for the adoption of this law should be to strengthen the role of the Ombudsman's staff, and the merger of his office with the special prosecutor's offices represents the diametrical opposite, i.e. the weakening of the role and importance of the Ombudsman's staff as a follow-up and specialised lawyer. In this context, those associations fully warn that this merger will lead to a reduction of institutional capacity for human rights protections which have developed for years into fast and effective mechanisms, in particular in relation to the fight against discrimination. All of this is in support of the fact that the merger of the special defences did not intend to strengthen the importance and role of the attorney general, especially when we bear in mind that this reduces the number of his deputies, and that it is precisely them who are needed in greater numbers because of their direct work with the parties, and it is precisely the opposite that we will get this law because in this way we will weaken the office of the attorney general and that because the attorney general is doing his job in quality and responsibly and as such is critical of the work of the public authority. In this regard, I call on the Minister of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to think carefully about what they are doing, and in order not to turn this law into a personal account of the Government of the Republic of Croatia not only with the Attorney General's Office, but also with the offices of the Special Advocates, because this law looks exactly like this: the account of the Government and the Advocates, or the Advocate General. I therefore request that you exempt from the Law on the Ombudsman of the People's Republic of China the provisions which special defenders associate with the Advocate General. It is also unusual that the government has severely reduced the criteria for selecting the deputy or deputy attorney general. This applies to Article 37(1) of the proposed law, in accordance with which one of the conditions for the appointment of a deputy staff attorney is that a person should have completed a graduate university study or a specialist degree and professional study which acquires 300 ECTS points or a four-year undergraduate study that obtained a high professional preparation according to earlier regulations. In addition, indent 3 of the cited provision requires that the candidate or candidate should have at least 10 years of work in the profession. The Associations, and I join them in this regard, believe that the adoption of such a legislative proposal would lead to the reduction of existing professional standards in the work of the institution of the Ombudsman, given that the current Law on the Ombudsman for the appointment of a deputy or deputy provides for criteria for the appointment of deputies to graduates who have completed their degree in law studies and who in the legal profession have at least 15 years of working experience and who, in that profession, have highlighted themselves and have become known to the public in their personal efforts in the field of protection of human rights. Although the criteria for selecting a deputy attorney-general may be somewhat milder than for the selection of the Ombudsman himself, this mitigation must not in any way be at the expense of professionalism and efficiency, by the fact that the deputy attorney-generals exercise constitutional and legal powers that are in the protection of the human rights of citizens and citizens given to that institution, and should also have adequate legal knowledge and know the standards in the legal protection of citizens over whom they have jurisdiction. I will present here a proposal for an association on what criteria for selecting a deputy, or deputy staff attorney in respect of his professional qualifications, should be. First of all, the condition should be completed by a graduate university study of the legal profession or a specialist degree in legal profession, which acquires 300 ECDS points or a four-year undergraduate study of the legal profession that has acquired a high professional preparation according to earlier regulations. At least ten years of legal experience and in the area for which it is proposed. If the legal solutions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia were accepted in the parliamentary procedure, there would certainly be a significant degradation of institutional standards in the protection of human rights, institutions that were so far the only non-judicial institutional mechanisms for the protection of rights would be abolished, and the door would be opened to positioning insufficiently qualified persons to significant duties which should definitely not be something that the Croatian Parliament would allow. I hope, however, that the government and the ministry will give up this bill and withdraw it from the procedure, that they will not let it go into another reading at all. And finally, I want to say, as my colleague Gordan Sobol has already pointed out, that I will definitely not support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75855	Thank you very much. Next in line is the respected representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75856	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. My thinking and attitude about this Law could come down to one sentence, and it says that we did this 20 years ago, and you would understand. But today in 2011 I am truly incomprehensible to offer such a law. It's not possible to understand why you're doing this out of an argument that stands in the law and not from what you've just told us, Mr. Minister. It is not clear what is the point, which is the purpose of this Law, although you say and in the explanation it is that you want to put emphasis on the proactive role of the Ombudsman, that you want to significantly improve his role, strengthen the promotional roles of the Ombudsman, etc. etc. It all comes down to what you said you wanted to empower the attorney general. It is interesting that you also want to strengthen the public defender of the one you have been ignoring for years, the one whose report, as we have already heard for several years, is known as a week of prognosis, not a very important document that should be binding for the government and encourage it to certain activities and activities. If you really want to strengthen the institution of the occupier, then I have a proposal on how to do it, and my suggestion is to withdraw this Law and give the arraignment attorney money to hire quality staff and give him powers to change things. So, if you really wanted to empower the vacancy attorney in my opinion, you should do it. So, you don't want to empower the attorney general. I think it's the least important thing to you. Is this bill a bill? Is the reason you're not satisfied with the work of one of the attorneys? Maybe that's motive. From reason, your real motive doesn't really get to know each other. But I think it would be fair for you to say that, because for years some of their reports have been made known to you. In doing so, you've been sending them a very important message all these years. You tell them we don't like what you write, we don't like that you criticize us and don't teach us brains. We know our business. I think you're telling the lawyers whose report you've been keeping in mind for years. And now you want to show this law that you've been very serious and that the time has come for your warnings to be translated into something very specific, concrete, but I would say harmful. I believe it is unacceptable that such a big change that involves a private one, which means that private defence attorneys will stop acting as independent and independent bodies, you explain to all two pages of the text. Unfortunately, in that sense, it is really incorrigible and you seem to be telling us, too, that you don't really care that we Parliamentarians and the political opposition to this law think, which is what the professional and general public thinks about this law. And this debate is actually probably irrelevant to you because nothing is fundamentally going to change. And that's true. This isn't the first time. That's why you can afford an explanation on a list of papers. That is why you can allow yourself not to have one detailed, comprehensive, clear, concrete analysis and study of what this Law means in the administrative, financial, humane sense. How many people work in every single defense, what jobs, what's gonna happen to them. On page two, you say there will be a merger of existing professional and administrative capacities. Well, that means we've got extra people here, that's where the extra people are going to happen. If that's how you don't say it, why don't you write it. Which way will you take care of all these people? So either you haven't done that analysis or you've done it and you're hiding something. Whatever's not right. I think we as a Parliament have the right to hear such details. Because when we don't see them on paper, of course we doubt the intention of passing the law. I think that's understandable. So, from all of this we have been able to hear in the public over the past few weeks since it was clear that this law will be sent to the parliamentary procedure, and then it means it's also accepted, it's an incredible ease that, when you listen to explanations and I remember sessions of the Committee on Gender Equality at which we discussed this law, it's an incredible ease that you can simply cut off something that has been systematically, persistently and qualityly worked out for years, and it's amazing that carelessness, because what else to conclude after such an explanation in which absolutely no analysis is available. So we didn't do the analysis, but we'll do it easily. Some people may lose their jobs, but we'll be easy. What the waist thinks of this spell of yours, we can't say that the profession is thrilled, the task force that was working on making this bill is so thrilled that it was fenced by this law. So I think it's justified to ask what the task force is for then? Isn't it kind of hypocritical to engage so many people, their enthusiasm, their effort, their knowledge, their energy, their time after all, and then make it worthless, because the information we have is that what you've offered us and what they wrote is not the same thing. So I think it's justified to ask what the task force is for. I think it was very incorrect and very unprofessional of them, and I also hold that it is highly unprofessional and undemocratic, and if you want to in some way and humiliating that the current defenders did not have the opportunity to participate actively in the process of the creation and adoption of this law. Look, Mr. Minister, these are all e-mails, messages, letters from people who don't agree with the law, people who direct criticism to the law. No one supports this law except you. How can it be a good law in the end, that you have absolutely no one's support for the law? Well, I think that's a catastrophic fact. And finally, I sincerely hope that soon this bad practice that you have and that you have, which means that the voice of professional and competent people is simply not heard, that it does not reach power and politics, I think it is a very bad message, an extremely bad message to all those who depend on politics. I think it should be changed, I think it really needs to be changed and the waist is important, you're obviously not going to be the one to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75857	Thank you very much. The next is Honorable Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75858	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister with Associates. So we have before us a proposal for a Law on the Attorney General. Here's from my esteemed colleagues' discussions so far, I'll try not to repeat much, so it'll probably be shorter. Namely, this bill definitely has two good things, they should be pointed out, it is one thing that has been approached in the first place by its drafting, that is to say, the amendment of the law so far, given the recommendation of the Advocate General on the amendment of its constitutional powers. And the second is that this bill came into regular procedure. So that's two good things. The rest I would not say, at least according to that proposal we received and according to what we heard on the committees, first of all on the parent board, the Committee on Human Rights, the rights of national minorities, so I must say that I am sorry that on behalf of the board, Mr President did not expose everything that was on the parent board, because it would be very interesting to hear that. It is true that this is an extremely important law, especially because it is an extremely important area that it treats, or where it is touched by human rights institutions, and human rights are simply a measure to measure the development of a country, to measure the state, the arrangement of a state, and so on the Republic of Croatia. It is no wonder, therefore, that the European Commission has recommended the strengthening of the Ombudsman's institution, both with regard to financial operations and with regard to the human part. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has clearly seen this as an invitation to a simple act of unifying the current defence institutions, i.e. defences and thus to try to display something as a strengthening, as we have heard here from both the Minister and the Committees empowering the position, as in some synergy, as in better coordination etc. These are all, of course, very positive and strong words, very powerfully sound, but when the need to do so from the level of the ministry, so on behalf of me, I'm talking about Mr. Minister, or from the level of the Government, it's already raising the suspicion that I'm not telling people, which is why it's necessary to point out so much, as if no one is able to do from the proposal itself, and above all from reacting to citizens, from reacting to associations, from reacting to the profession to read whether it's a good proposal or it's simply something that's come up in some other circles that are neither from the field of profession, nor from the field of those who are dealing with this business, because it's a negative reaction to this all of the defense. The Committee on Human Rights was attended by everyone, and Mr. Public Attorney with the Assistants was also the Advocates, and they all essentially made a negative statement about this bill. So it's no wonder that, and those who said I should really do it from the highest level of expertise, that working group, because I'm assuming that there's a working group that's invited people in this area who represent authority. I believe, in the end, that they did not even make it clear to say as volunteers but that they were paid for it, etc., and finally when it joined the very arrangement of the proposal and the delivery of the Croatian Parliament were neglected by all, they all, they all came from the working group and eventually withdrew from the process itself. So it's all weird. When we talk about human rights, we need to understand that the state of human rights cannot define the government and cannot define any body of government. Human rights can primarily be defined by citizens, those who represent citizens, so they are associations, these are special groups, especially those at risk, which are covered by among other things and those institutions that protect their rights. Perhaps they can also be defined by the representatives of the profession who are engaged in whether they are right, whether they are social spheres or something else, and I repeat, they have all made a negative statement by at least certain parts of this law if not entirely. We have received, I know that not all colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, so all MPs have been given an insight, but we have received, for example, the Office for Human Rights, and I believe, an apology to the Committee on Human Rights, and I believe some other committees of mass correspondence, I would say from very relevant representatives from this area, which point to a number of shortcomings in this proposal. And now, if we come down to the story of the bill itself, it's obvious that there are several articles here that define a major structure like Article 26 where it's talked about the establishment of the Office of the Attorney General, where it's said that he has five deputies, three of whom have so far done their job as special defenders, 1 is new to the rights of older people and 1 is for fundamental human rights. And the one who deals with fundamental human rights should actually be covered by the three deputies so far. It's logical that the public defender was the first to react in this section. The second segment that has already been pointed out here, discussed by the attorneys, was a section of the loss of autonomy of its work, although it was also said here that this autonomy or independence would not be compromised by anything. However, Article 33 says that the Ombudsman is giving guidance and instructions for work to his deputies. So it's not the independence at the level that she's been at, no matter who claims there won't be any change, it's not. Why is this independence important? It's important. It's important because of the specificity of the areas it deals with. And on this occasion I will mention first and foremost the Ombudsman for children's rights because it's a special area, because children are simply citizens who in no law of the Republic of Croatia have the same rights as adults, they simply can't because they are children. This shows how specific it is and how important it is. I'd just like to ask, in the end, will this bill, in your opinion, make the attorney general more accessible to the citizens? Because he works with citizens the most. Will he make work easier than the authorities? Because there was a big problem so far. Will this bill of yours in any way improve the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia? If we can't give these three questions one hard yes, guaranteeing that it really is so, then this bill doesn't make sense. And before this bill came to the public debate that it was a rationalisation of the work of the attorneys, as it was a saving, I was among other things in the context of a previous debate a few days ago and now I repeat the area of human rights is not a place to save, it is not a place to rationalise this type. The area of human rights is very important because Europe and the world see us through it. And let us not do what they do not approve of either, because we have people from the European Parliament among these reactions, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75859	Thank you, Mr. Representative. The correcting of the incorrect allegations was reported by a respected representative, Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75860	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's all these other allegations I'm not going to correct because I'm allowing it to be one controversy and you can say for everyone that it's your opinion, but the public is doing one incorrect allegation, you've repeated here several times that the parent body is the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities for this law. It is simply not according to the Rules of Procedure, and it is unequivocally the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to which it writes, in its tasks to cover the structure, part-round and way of working of the Ombudsman. I am therefore extremely sorry that there was no one from the opposition at today's Committee on the Constitution where this was discussed, there was no lawyer or lawyer, so absolutely no one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75861	Thank you very much. It is also time to report further individual debates, so we are now certain that the last debate is the respected representative of Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75862	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing a proposal for a Law on the Ombudsman, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred to in the ordinary legislative procedure. Namely, the latest constitutional changes have introduced some newspapers related to the status of the Ombudsman in the direction of independence and independence of the institution, the pro-active role of the attorney general in promoting human rights. It is therefore necessary to support the applicant's intensities to regulate these and other submitted newspapers in full law. In the field of human rights promotion, the Ombudsman monitors the situation and points to the need for their protection, which is regularly informed by the public about the promotion of rights, encourages cooperation with civil society organisations, etc. In order to strengthen, in practice, the promotional role of the Ombudsman, this proposal proposes the merger of the Centre for Human Rights with the Ombudsman's Office and the establishment of a council on human rights. The Council for Human Rights is an advisory body that examines the guidelines for promoting human rights, ensuring that all entities associated with the promotion of human rights are co-operated. This proposal also regulates the special powers of the Advocate General arising from the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination as well as the obligations of the Faculty Protocol with the Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating proceedings or penalties. The proposal regulates the way in which the Ombudsman is acting on the basis of a complaint from the citizens or on the basis of his own initiative in such a way as to carry out a shortened procedure or an examination procedure in his own procedure. The shortened procedure shall be used when the documentation undoubtedly indicates that the applicant is at risk of human rights. In the examination procedure of the Advocate General, he shall request the relevant information and documentation from the competent authorities. It shall then draw up a report proposing, if possible, measures to remove irregularities. The competent authority to which the recommendations have been addressed will be required to inform the Advocate General of the measures taken. In addition, the Advocate General shall have the power to submit proposals for repealing and abolishing the public legal body's solution as well as the power to apply for the renewal of the administrative procedure. The proposal further proposes the merger of professional and administrative capacities, the Office of Special Prosecutors in order to achieve mutual coordination of the Advocates, and to strengthen the authority of specialised Advocates through the Constitutional Authority of the Ombudsman, as well as to improve the effectiveness of the citizens' representations. This would include reports from the field of work with these specialised lawyers, their issues and clear recommendations. The merger of specialised lawyers with the occupier is proposed to introduce a deputy occupier for the protection and promotion of fundamental rights, for the protection and promotion of children's rights, for the protection and promotion of gender equality, for the protection and promotion of the rights of persons with disabilities, and for the protection of older persons. I believe that with this proposal, it significantly promotes the position and powers of the Ombudsman in the field of co-ordination and mutual co-operation. I therefore support the draft Law on the Ombudsman, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as all those quality remarks and proposals presented in the debate and on committees, which will be incorporated into the final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75863	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the closing statement will be taken by Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75864	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The debate was to say expected. And finally, this is a place with a face-to-face argument, one for, one against, and finally, to actually underline and see where we are. I have to say right away to answer the question that this is a political proposal, whether the task force took part in, whether or not we deviated from its proposal, whether we allowed the Attorney General and the Attorney General to take part in this. Look, every document that comes here is, in a certain way, the result of some political decision by a group of people who run the country, which makes up a particular coalition, and your performances are also political, and I don't think we should doubt that. As far as the task force is concerned, the task force is anyone who works a certain law. She has a duty to make a law within those frameworks in which she is assigned. If it's not within these frameworks, there's no copyright that anyone in that proposal can't touch it so it can't change it. Within the working group there have been different opinions both of these and such, and we are clear after the task force has made a certain platform we have changed and we have come up with a proposal that we correctly came here before you. Is it as our approach to making this law of cosmetics has been said here? Do we just want to formally meet that chapter closing criterion here? Do we want to cheat on someone here? Well, I don't think so. If we wanted to cheat, we wouldn't close chapter 23 at all today. And is this cosmetics? So the intensity of the debate shows that it's not cosmetics, because we suggest something completely different from what it is today. It's not cosmetics at all. It's a completely different approach, a completely different attitude and organization of the entire system. We came with that proposal because we think he's good. We want what we said, you said on the page and a half, for the second reading we'll expand it to 20 pages if we have to, but we're essentially not going to say anything anymore. Who recognizes? All right. Whoever doesn't recognize it, we'll see the arguments, analyze them. But in any case, the basic rhacio of this law is to strengthen the attorney general. We want a strong office and a strong vacancy attorney with strong deputies. That's what we want. A strong office, a strong vacancy attorney and strong deputies. Do we respect him? You can claim this and that. However, when you look at all the reforms we've been through to finish this time and close the chapter that we've implemented and when you look at the reports of the occupier of the previous years, you'll see that a whole series of his proposals are exactly in those reforms that we've implemented. Part of course he didn't even propose. Well, that's fair enough. Is this bill a deal with him or with the D.A.'s office? I don't think so. Definitely not, and I know it's not. As you can see, the current occupier remains in office until the end of his term. It's perfectly correct. The right to propose his deputies is disputed. In the debate and analysis, we will see if we have guessed that the occupier himself proposes to his deputies or that we also let it determine the Assembly and that it is passing the parliamentary procedure. I have to admit from this position I find a good suggestion. Someone said that with this merger, we're now going to get a bigger machine, a bigger professional service. There was talk of whether it was all rationalization, that there was no need to save. I agree. There's no need to save here. Our motive is not rationalization. No one said we wanted to on human rights and protect human rights that we wanted to save anything. You've asked Madam MPs if we've done an analysis of how many people work, if we know that. We know that, I believe you do, too. There's been all the reports of all the special lawyers here, and in all of them, I think it says how many people are employed there. You've got 35 people at the Attorney General's office today, 32, 35 today. In the Office of the Attorney General for the Protection of Children's Rights, there are 19, in the Office of the Police Advocates for the Protection of Gender Equality there are 15, in the Office of the Attorney General for the Protection of Persons with Disabilities has 11. I may have been fucking, maybe I haven't updated the data anywhere, but that's about it. Whether people will stay on the road, from transitional provisions you can see no one will stay on the road, for all there are places, everyone is taken over according to the transitional provisions and all will be deployed. We say the Attorney General has three deputies today, now he'll have one. No, he'll have five. Exactly, that segment of his has one, yes, yes, you can laugh, it's all right, but he'll have five on the proposal of this law, he'll have one in the area he's covering today, but he'll have very strong professional services and each of those deputies will also have within these professional services people who will cover his area and that's exactly what we said we want a strong occupier with powerful deputies. Now, there were words here that we showed indifference, hypocrisy, hypocritical behavior, that we were undemocratic, unprofessional, that we did not allow discussion. That's not true. I've spoken to the attorney general several times, I've spoken to the lawyers several times, we've given them suggestions, we've allowed them to hear their suggestions, but the truth is, we don't seem to agree, that's true. However, it is the right of the government to propose a different concept than those now run by institutions. I can say that perhaps I was exclusively guided by the opinions of judges regarding some reforms in the judiciary might never have implemented them, although I had strong support in the majority. But perhaps some would never have spent if I had listened exclusively to people who were in the profession. So I think that, in the end, by putting the law on the pages, we have opened communication with every public and professional and this, we have received proposals. True, most associations are against this concept, I'm not contesting it, but a large part of the public say that, it's a good model and you should have done it before. Because here, in the debate, the question was how strong is our public defender as a constitutional category with a large number of specialised lawyers who are not constitutional categories. We're taking away his space, he's a constitutional category. It has even been said that there has been some inflation, that they have been proposed for various areas. To your question whether this law will improve the state of human rights, to say in unequivocally yes or no. So, there's no unambiguous answer, the state of human rights, this law is just one stone in the mosaic of all those tools that are needed to improve human rights. And I'll say, it's a big day when we meet the criteria and we close chapter 23, which is the judiciary and fundamental human rights and it's actually a sign and an assessment of someone who doesn't perform by looking at some of his narrow party interests but who is objective on the side and says that Croatia has fulfilled the criteria and Croatia has made serious progress. So we believe, we have indeed come honestly and correctly with a concept that we consider to be good. Now, if we wanted to calculate and if we wanted cosmetics, you know what we'd do, we'd leave the status quo. They'd change things a little bit in the law, and it'd stay the way it is. Everyone would have their own territory, they'd have a regiment with constitutional powers, we'd have specialised defenders who couldn't come to some institutions they couldn't come to, I couldn't come because the attorney general at certain institutions represented and presented reports concerning their work, in which they didn't participate and in which they had no authority. But it's clear that we're going to analyse all these arguments that are being made here today, I have to admit, I didn't sit down this way that we're soulless, maybe I've been heartless with my children these years and more because I really haven't been saving myself working on all the reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75865	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Two correctings of the incorrect quote are still reported. Honorable representative Mirela Holly, first of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75866	Dear Minister, I am correcting your claim that today's debate is definitely not a cosmetic debate, I think the whole debate has shown that it is a cosmetic debate, and in that sense I will remind you of how many representatives and representatives of the HDZ have discussed this extremely important bill, one, apart from the HDZ Club. Also lagging behind are any corrections of an incorrect allegation or comments on a whole series of our very, very sharp allegations, which also points to the fact that even HDZ representatives and deputies do not believe in this bill. I'm also correcting your allegations that the D.A. will have five deputies. You know very well that he's not going to have five deputies, he's going to have only one real deputy, and this is going to be four actually specialized attorneys, or attorneys, and instead of adding two deputies to him what he needed, you actually took away two deputies, which is pretty embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75867	Thank you very much. And the correction has a respected representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75868	So I'm also correcting this part of the quote that, where you ministers say that this law actually means the mightiness of the attorney general. The same argument, you for an area that has already been covered by the Ombudsman, you reduce the number of his deputies, you leave on one, and assumes, can only assume from your final argument that these other deputies and these people who come into that office will actually work on these jobs, super, but then on the other hand, that means you are definitely weakening the protection of the rights, fundamental human rights of these categories of persons concerned, persons with disabilities, children's rights, and the area of gender equality, because you are taking away actually a part of the people who have worked on these jobs so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75869	Thank you very much. This led us to the end of the debate. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on this bill when the conditions are met. That's what we do today. Tomorrow at 9:30 we will continue with this 11th point which is the thematically related to this point that we are finishing today, which is the 2010 Ombudsman's report on the work for people with disabilities. Thank you all and good-bye tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-29-0.u75870	We're moving on to the draft law on the attorney general, first reading, P.Z. 833, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a Law on the Attorney General is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments, proposals and opinions delivered in the debate will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a conclusion. Score. The conclusion was accepted, 77 votes in favour, nothing abstentions and 26 against. Good morning! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, we continue to work on the 23rd session and, as announced, the agenda item is - The report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2010 The applicant: Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities of the Ombudsman provided this report on the basis of Article 17. Attorney General's Law on Persons with Disabilities. The government delivered an opinion. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Labour and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Would the proposaler's representative like to address it further? Yeah. Mrs. Anka Slonjšak, Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities. Here you go.
