ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72215	Our colleagues and colleagues, therefore, have a report on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ivan Shantek, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. At its 42nd session held on 14 April 2011, the Court of Justice of Sisak's mandate committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed a letter requesting authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Ivan Shantek for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 200(2). Criminal law on private lawsuits by private prosecutors Milivoj Tićarić, Milan Krstinić, Hasim Smlatic, Željko Solde, Željko Vrbanus, Milena Pavković Novotny, Jure Lisak, Milovana Bojčetic, Gordana Krznarić, Joze Bilbrk, Josip Priner and Vladimir Greguric. Mr Ivan Shantek is represented in the 6th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be in a position to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and for the implementation of this Regulation. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 6 votes to propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament: during the term of the parliamentary term, the authorisation to launch a criminal proceedings against Agent Ivan Shantek in case K-256/10 is denied. in the case of a private complaint by the Prosecutor for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 200(2). Penalty law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72216	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Ivan Shantek showed up, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72217	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I am asking this House to remove my immunity so that this trial may continue before the Sisak Municipal Court. Namely, you heard who sued me, these are the advisers of Mrs. Lovric's mayor. But you didn't hear what they were suing me for, so I'll read what I'm sad about. Namely, according to their complaint, I said in the press the following words: "Through the Council that does nothing from the county budget wants to draw 5 million kunas in this mandate, and the logic is that those who have done nothing return the money. The advisor has 5,000 kuna net fee. When does it work? What's his time of work, are those who don't work, and get paid while a high-skilled officer has to work from eight to 16 hours a month." Here, that's why I'm sad, I'm ready to defend it in court. However, this story has a far wider context. It is, in fact, an advisory team that was illegally receiving during the time the mayor made a decision on their payment. So 580,000 kunas were paid net or 908,000 kuna gross from the county budget. Of these 12 counselors, 10 are councillors in the County Assembly, and 2 received bribes to move to the other side, they were appointed advisers. ... However, there is, I wouldn't want this request to be taken as some sort of personal matter. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You see from this everything I've said briefly here because I don't have too much time to exist and spread interest in this trial being initiated. So please remove my immunity one more time. I'm ready for trial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72218	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, which has been read by the President of the Commission here. Please, let's get involved and vote. So we vote on the committee's proposal. The result? The commission's proposal was accepted by most votes, 93 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 5 against. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament on Wednesday 4 May is the continuation of this session at 9.30 p.m. with the agenda Final Proposal for the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 753. With that agenda point, we continue this session. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of all of you and all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who celebrate it are congratulating Easter. And on the Gregorian calendar and on the July calendar. And I want you to have a nice holiday. I would also like to say that I hope that the verdicts of our generals in The Hague will be liberating, I believe, that's what I want. To our generals, we want exactly what I said and that in one dignified way we accept the inadmissible verdict of whatever it may be. Thank you very much, and I wish you a pleasant Easter and Easter holidays.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72221	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 43rd session held on 9 June 2011 the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, the number of OGRs. 18/11 of 8 June 2011 sent through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia by Act number OGR. 55/11 of 8 June 2011 to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the Authorization of Freedom, Determination and Penalty of Representative Ivan Chehok on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he has committed crimes of association for the initiation of the criminal offences referred to in Article 333(1). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penalty law. Ivan Čehok is a representative of the 6th convocation of the Croatian Parliament, and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office is terminated, and a decision approving detention should be taken by the Croatian Parliament. Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1306/2013 of 12 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1049/2006 of The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 6 votes to propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament: The Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, the number of the OGR, is granted to the Office of State Attorneys of the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime. 18/11 of 8 June 2011 addressed via the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia number OG. 53/11 of 8 June 2011 on grounds of suspicion that he has committed the crimes of the association for the initiation of the offences referred to in Article 333(1). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penalty law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72222	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Agent Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72223	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm also a member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. However, due to the urgency of calling the session, I did not arrive within minutes until the beginning of the session, I was not present at a session that was completed in a few minutes. I feel obliged to say in this case and my opinion. That's why I took this opportunity at the session of the Croatian Parliament. It is already known to all of us in the materials you have seen that the Mandate-Immunity Commission, with six votes, has decided to adopt all requests, i.e. the proposals of the USKOK, or the State's Attorney's Office. I wouldn't go too far into the case, because today he's only today becoming an object in the stage of the investigation and we all know that by law all the information that is going on in the investigation is secrets and so is the information that we in the materials got on the bench especially members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I picked up those materials and read them. So, I agree with one decision to remove the parliamentary immunity of my colleagues to the Czech Republic so that institutions can do their job, so that an investigation can be conducted without interference, and he will, unfortunately, have to prove his innocence to the court in this country. However, within that request, a request for approval to launch an investigation against counterparts of the Czech Republic was not only received. Inside the material there is also a request for the deprivement of liberty and for the establishment of an investigative prison. Now, that's the part of that request that I'm personally dealing with, and so are my clubmates. It is the same fact that the request states that detention should be determined by two points. The first item is an impact on witnesses during the investigation. The second point is an even more banal danger than repeating the act. I'm not a lawyer, but I find these arguments at these two points very funny, especially this other danger of repeating the work. You all know exactly what's in the investigation request. Because we have read everything that is explained in the investigative request in Croatian media a year ago. They were also read by a colleague of the Czech Republic. Also possible witnesses read the newspaper. And if he wanted to influence the witnesses, he wouldn't have waited for today to open an investigation. He would have done it last year in the summer, at the ninth, tenth, first, second, and even in the fourth, fifth month ahead of us. I would appeal to you as agents. I spoke to a few people in the hallway, and very often as usual, I hear a story out in the halls where MPs express their disagreement with some decisions, and in order to vote differently at the session. I guess that's it. What's the reason for Mr. Chehok's detention? I don't see him in this explanation. Is it in the desire to show that this state is a legal state that I do not dispute? Let the investigation take its course and let the true truth be known in court. Or is the reason that before Chapter 23, the closure of Chapter 23 of another arrest would prove that we are doing well here, that our judiciary is independent and that we are fighting corruption with all our powers. If that's why I have reasonable doubts that it is, I can't accept raising my hand here because you have to understand that we are deciding here on someone's fate. It's the fate of fellow Czechok and his family. Whether he's guilty or not to say once more let him fight in court to prove both him and the State's Attorney's office, so we'll see in a year or two when that process ends whether it was the basis for his persecution or not. But I'm against this country being ruled by the law of the lynching, six times or 60 times written in a newspaper, and then one morning we come here and then a big scandal. The state's attorney's office has discovered something! Well, that didn't reveal the State's Attorney's Office. A year ago, it was all in the paper. What's been waiting till now? I say once again, if he meant to influence the witnesses, he already did it six months ago and there's no need to stop it now, and I'm not talking about this, and I don't even want to mention the danger of repeating it. That's more than funny. I would ask you once again, you are responsible here, regardless of the fact that there are three pillars of government in Croatia, to prevent this country from becoming a police state. Since 20 years in this country have been stolen and protected by thieving, it is not necessary to do so now to raise a hack, to close people to two newspaper articles, or because someone wants to be in the country or abroad. I will be against it, as will my colleagues from the HDSSB for detention, and once again we will vote for the investigation to take place uninterruptedly, and for my colleague, Chehok, to be defended from freedom by a member of the ruling coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72224	Thank you. Is there any more interest in the debate? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide at 4:00 p.m. so please clubs etc., is to organise the presence of representatives and representatives My colleagues and colleagues, as I have announced, we will now again briefly interrupt this debate on this agenda point because we have a vote on one item of the agenda, so please let's get involved and see if we have a quorum. 87, we have a quorum. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mandate-Immunity Commission has informed the Croatian Parliament and has proposed a decision that you have heard about granting a permit to deprive freedom, certain detention, etc., Mr Ivan Chehok. So please let's get involved and vote on the proposal of the Mandati-Immunity Commission, we had a debate, the debate is closed. Please make a statement. Score. The proposal for a Mandate-Immunity Commission was accepted by the majority of 87 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 2 against. Thank you. Notice, the 56th session of the Committee on Economy called for Friday, at 9 p.m. at Janko Draskovic's hall will begin at 10:00 p.m., so later than scheduled at 9. 'Cause 10's later than 9. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72227	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the 44th session held on 17 June 2011 the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime No. 260/10 of 16 June 2011 by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia by Act No. 57/11 of 16 June 2011 to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the approval of the criminal proceedings against Ivan Drmić of representatives in the Croatian Parliament on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed crimes of association for the committing of criminal offences referred to in Articles 333(1) and 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penalty law. Mr Ivan Drmić is a representative of the 6th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Croatian Parliament's businessman had immunity until the end of the parliamentary term and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it could not be initiated or conducted by criminal proceedings. Council Regulation (EC) No 1049/2006 of 13 December 2006 laying down the rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2006 of the European Parliament and The Croatian Parliament's businessmen unanimously with 8 votes to propose a next decision to the Croatian Parliament. An authorisation shall be granted for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Agent Ivan Drmic at the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, the number of KUS 268/10 as of 16 June 2011 referred to through the State Attorney's Office number OGR 57/11 of 16 June 2011 on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he has committed the crimes of the association for the initiation of the criminal offences referred to in Article 333(1) and (3). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penalty law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72228	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72229	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It continues in front of the entire Croatian public, unprecedented abuse of state institutions and repressive apparatus still prevailing, and for the purpose of dealing with political inexperiences. After still fresh examples of such abuse when it comes to the recent example of MP Slavko Linic. We are now witnessing a police-political installation for the purpose of dealing with HDSSB parliamentary representative Ivan Drmic, but it is ultimately an attempt to deal with the entire HDSSB. The HDSSB most resolutely rejects all charges against the parliamentary representative and the chief secretary of our party, Mr Ivan Drmic. Mr. Ivan Drmic is not only a perpetrator of no crime but is a victim of reckless fraud. The indictment is a continuation of the political-police persecution of HDZ leadership under the conductor stick of the still ruling party, and directed by HDZ's repressive apparatus and political puppet Mladen Bajic. After a politically motivated and mounted verdict by Croatian General Branimir Glavas HDZ's founder, the HDZ summit was not only successful in its intention of destroying the HDZB but the HDSSB, on the contrary, represents a stronger and more important factor in the political life of the Republic of Croatia. After once turning a state-run party into an organisation deeply permeated by corruption and organised crime, the remainder of HDZ's leadership before parliamentary elections at all costs wants to create an impression of a balance of guilt in public. In an attempt to create an image, they're all the same. HDZ's own police apparatus is writing anonymous reports against political rivals by continuing its practice with politically motivated and mounted indictments. It is no secret that Ivan Drmic is one of the closest associates, but also the best and most loyal friends of Branimir Glavas. Unlike those who have located, identified, arrested and transferred the leadership and membership of the HDDSB, the Croatian General Branimir Glavas will not at any cost give up his heroes of the Homeland War. In this light, driven by desire in every way to help an innocently convicted Croatian general, the victim of political persecution and personal friend Mr. Ivan Drmic has unfortunately become a victim himself, but in this case, he is a victim of unprecedented fraud. And after he realized what it was about, after the whole case he reported himself to the police, police, BUSCOCK and DORH instead of lighting up the fraud and punishment of its perpetrators, he filed charges and the prosecution of the victims of this same fraud began a year after MP Drmic reported it there. This can only happen in Croatia. It is clear to everyone that this case is not about any attempt to bribe judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, but about the most common mounted indictment in the already known style of the Secretary of State, where the Supreme Court judges themselves deny any attempt to bribe, and who would also try to bribe judges under quotes after it has already been announced that the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia has already reached Branimir Glavas. I remind you, the verdict was reached on June 2nd, July 6th, the Supreme Court publicly announced that the verdict had been reached, and this event of fraud took place on June 24th, so after the Supreme Court had already said that the verdict had been reached. The entire leadership and membership of the HDSSB is most determined and uniquely standing alongside its chief secretary and parliamentary representative, Mr Ivan Drmic, by giving him unconditional and full support. The HDZ's attempts to use for this purpose for who knows which way to include the repressive system will not benefit them from political reckoning with their insinuators in panic attempts to remain in power. The time to lay down and collect accounts for all the evil that has been done to its own people is getting closer and the fine earned will not escape the current ruling HDZ furniture as well as their recently-loved leader Ivo Sanader. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72230	Is there any more interest? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Let's get involved and vote. Score. This proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission was accepted by the majority of votes, 95 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 1 against. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and deputies, the session of the Croatian Parliament will not be next week because there are three national holidays at that week. So we will continue on 29 June at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda Final proposal for a law confirming Decision No.1/2001 of the Stabilisation and Association Council between the European Union and Croatia of 5.5.2011, amending and supplementing Protocol 4 to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Croatia, of the other part, as regards the definition of the concept of "products of origin" and the way of administrative cooperation, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 887. So Wednesday 29th of this month we continue with the session and most likely by the end we will because we have enough agenda points and too many, until 15.7. when we hope to complete this session, and 14th most likely will address the President of the Italian Republic, Mr Napolitano, in this Croatian Assembly. I wish you a pleasant weekend and the next week and let us join you in celebrating Statehood Day and similar to which I congratulate you and the entire Croatian public on June 25th of Croatian Statehood Day. We're trying to get involved where everyone can go to that celebration, and of course there's a program of celebrations that was designed by the Committee of Celebration. Here's everyone I want a nice weekend and more. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission, so please Mr. Damir Sesvecan, President of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72232	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at 45th session held on 30 June 2011 the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption, Organized Crime No. CUS 268/10 of 27 June 2011 sent through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia by Act OGR 57/11 of 28 June 2011 to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ivan Drmić of representatives in the Croatian Parliament on suspicion that he committed a criminal offence against the illegal intervention referred to in Article 343(5). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penalty law. Mr Ivan Drmić, representative of the sixth convocation of the Croatian Parliament, is on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has ceased, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same may not be initiated or prosecuted. Council Regulation (EC) No 1049/2006 of 13 December 2006 laying down the rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2006 of the European Parliament and The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 6 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following decision: It is approved to initiate criminal proceedings against MP Ivan Drmic at the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime No. CUS 268/10 of 27 June 2011 addressed through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia No. OGR 57/11 of 28 June 2011 on grounds of suspicion that it has committed a criminal offence against the illegal intervention referred to in Article 343(5). In accordance with Article 37(2) of the Code of Penalty Penalty law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72233	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. He answered on behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72234	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This is a unique case that in 14 days, more precisely 17 June, the immunity of our colleague Ivan Drmic was removed, and on July 1st, immunity is again removed under suspicion that, as a unique act, there was a doubt before the State's Attorney's Office sent the Mandate-Immunity Commission a request to remove this second time immunity. Is this about the state's attorney's slip, sloppyness, stupidity, whatever you want. So here is the Mandate-Immunity Commission and the Council of the Republic of Croatia twice consider and decide that I would almost say the same thing that, and doubting this work existed before and it is known to the State's attorney that it existed. Or is it about the intention, the ugly intention that there is a unique case that once a parliamentary representative is removed twice in 14 days, most likely whether or not he is under suspicion, and for the purpose of media attention and attraction, it was probably not enough 14 days ago, so here is the immunity of our colleague Ivan Drmic again, under reason, i.e. to suspect the criminal act of inciting illegal mediation. I'm asking all of you here and all of us wondering if encouraging illegal mediation and signing, signing so personally, governmentally, however you want harmful contracts to sell Free Dalmatia, where it's estimated that 500 million kuna has been avoided, whether it's illegal to mediate privatisations and the signature of TLMs from Sibenik, or whether it's selling electricity under that scheme cheaply, buy an expensive sale where the damage is 600 million kuna, and again it has the signature of a person who is today headed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Is that illegal mediation? With a signature? Is it illegal to intervene and sell property rights to MOL, so INA, which is, whose signature it is again. It's illegal intervention, Mr. Shakespeare, and the state's attorney should have it in mind, if it's Mr. Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72235	It's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72236	Is Mr. Shakespeare State's Attorney's Office?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72237	What should have been done or shouldn't have been done is not an object. We're talking about a specific case here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72238	It's not an object, it's great. It is a particular case that 14 days ago Mr. Drmic was removed from immunity, to shorten all these phrases, for association to commit a crime. Was there an association in the Serbian camp in Bucharest for the crime when 40 innocent civilians were killed in '91. The year of August and the past 250? There's no criminal record, and there's no trial for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72239	There's no need, because we're not, it's not the subject of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72240	All right. These are all DORH items, Mr. President, so these are all DORH items. ... Mr. Jambo, you rub your hands very well. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72241	Please finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72242	I'm still going to ask, to finish... questions, shall we, ask the Mandate-Immunity Commission, and ask this route publicly to DORH, once again, to remove Mr. Drmic's immunity? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-15-0.u72243	Thank you. I am concluding the debate and I am making a proposal for a decision taken by the Mandate-Immunity Commission to vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission was adopted by a majority of votes, 80 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 2 against. And ladies and gentlemen, we said, and I'm going to do it again yesterday so that it might happen, given the number of items in the agenda that we're forced to work and say Monday and Tuesday. For now, I don't see any reason to say next Tuesday was working, so we'll continue on Wednesday, but if it takes us another week to fix it, if necessary. I therefore schedule 6.7 at 9:30 a.m. for the continuation of the 23rd session with the agenda of the Proposal for a Constitutional Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much, and have a nice holiday. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. I hope in these few days we've had some rest and rested, so we'll continue with the session. And as we announced, we'll start with, we'll move on to the agenda, and then I'll give you my word. So, we will discuss as we announced the first item of the agenda - the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 753 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Before we move to this item of the agenda, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric answered. Here you go.
