ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74649	Thank you, Mr. President. This is the National Committee's report for the second half of last year, meanwhile things have moved a lot and changed, but it's already close to the Report for half of this year, so we added to the Report, not to the Report, but to ask to be shared with representatives and representatives in the benches of two other documents that should be held on the benches. One is the status of the chapter at the moment. This is what the table looks like and others are for your information criteria in Chapter 8. Market competition and 23rd. The judiciary, so the criteria for fulfillment. At this point we are in a situation where we are actually still content with two key unopened chapters. The third contentted chapter is Fisheries for which I will say something in the follow-up of this short introduction. If you look at the Report it follows the same principle that followed the reports that preceded this. So, brief information on the status of each chapter. What happened beyond this regular advocacy, and what happened during this six-month period, the second half of last year was the presentation or presentation of a report on the progress of the European Commission submitted by Ambassador VAndoren to the Committee and the debate with representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the criteria of the type of standards, the fulfilment of the criteria in the Justice chapter and the fundamental rights organised under the 58th session of 14 December. In this Report with the status in certain chapters, you have a brief report at the end on other activities of the National Committee, namely diplomatic meetings, visits, the Committee itself and, on the other hand, by members and members of the Committee to the institutions of the relevant other Member States or the institutions of the European Union. In the meantime of this report, we have come close to the end of our negotiating process at this point in the 35 chapters in which we have negotiated there are five chapters left to close. As I have said, these are three content, Fisheries, Market Competition and the Justice and Fundamental Rights and two which are largely defined by the Commission itself, so one is financial and budgetary provisions and the other are issues. About two months ago, in this general half-year period following this report, but for information, let me say a few words. In early March, the Commission came up with an opinion on progress in the judiciary chapter and fundamental rights, which at that point did not seem best to be honest. So the report seemed like there wasn't much chance of negotiations closing before the end of this year. About two and a half months ago, this led to a very lively activity, and by my assessment, the situation turned around and by the assessment of everyone else, which is more important in this case, the Member States and the institutions of the European Union, so the Commission itself, and we are now in one situation where there is not a date for the end of the negotiations, but it is all an opportunity, even though it is not an official date, that what can be heard from the Member States that Croatia will become a full member on 1 July 2013. The final date or final confirmation of that date will be obtained most likely at the session of the European Council on 24 and 25. Six. However, the European Commission is working on a draft for the Chapter of Financial and Budgetary Provisions, assuming on 1 July 2013. So they can't start working because, of course, it assumes certain mutual financial obligations, they can't start doing a draft of that position until they have a date, so they're working with the assumption of that date. There are certain chances that the fishing chapter will be closed before 21 June, so when the last regular intergovernmental conference is scheduled this semester. Let's do it eventually to some extraordinary conference before that. In any case, the target date is the closure of the negotiations, the conclusion of the negotiations by the end of June of this year. We'll see how it goes. It's known for a number of reasons that it's very important for us. Let me say that according to what was in this process was done in this House. European institutions and Member States and non-member countries that have a European perspective were all interested in this form of Parliament's supervision of the negotiating process. This can become a practice in the future for other countries that are on that path. I believe that Parliament was involved here above what the parliaments of the countries that entered before us were involved in the negotiation process, I must say that, especially during this last period, but before that, but in the last period when international communication and diplomatic activity at Parliament level was extremely important and lively, that members and members of the National Committees from all parties participated very actively in this communication, very actively contributed to the presentation in the first work because it proved sufficient therefore to present what was done on reforms and to change the legislation, I would also say on the change of foundations on which we can start to build a functioning modern state. So, all of them were very active regardless of the parties, regardless of the position and opposition, and I am taking this opportunity to thank the members and members of the committee who have been particularly actively involved in promoting this idea of information and European institutions and member states made in reforms, to thank them for their efforts and engagement. What happened in the negotiation process, of course, is not the end. It is merely a basis for the development of a normal functioning state in the European context. What we have come to at this point is not the end of this process but the end of the assumptions about this process, so I hope that we will cross over in the next month from the conditionality period these are the negotiations in the context period or the European environment in which the whole process begins. Thank you very much, and I hope this is the last report before we close the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74650	Thank you. On behalf of the government, Mr. Vladimir Drobnjak, deputy head of state delegation and chief negotiator. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74651	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Thank you for your attention. First of all, I would like to take advantage of the occasion and thank the National Committee for its great support both in this final phase of the negotiations and from the very beginning of the negotiations for us on the negotiating team, the permanent support of the Croatian Parliament and the National Committee has been of immeasurable importance. I also thank the negotiating team for its good grades and praises. In any case, all of us who have been working here for 7 years are looking forward to it and encouraging it. We've come a long way to the end of the negotiations. Ms. Pusic said less and more, so allow only a few very short information than remarks. I think the last meeting of the EU foreign ministers, even if it did not bring a formal accession date, opened the door wide with a quick completion of the negotiations. The conclusions of the ministerial meeting on Croatia are very short but important. In one statement of conclusion, EU foreign ministers call on the European Commission to draw up the remaining draft joint positions in all the negotiating chapters that are still left, a total of 4 more, which means that very, very fast closure of the remaining chapters is expected. The odds are very good that the remaining chapters are closed by the end of June. If by any chance there won't be a few weeks later, but quite certainly if not in June then in July and we will definitely sign the accession treaty during the Polish Presidency. When exactly, we'll know that when the last chapters close. As you know, we expect in June and the formal date of accession. The European Commission is currently acting on the basis of the technical date of accession of 1.7.2013. We expect this to be formally confirmed soon. In any case, Croatian negotiations are near the end. I think we're coming out of a period of uncertainty about their end in a period of security and certainty. From now on, everything will be clear. And what I would like to say in the end is that we are particularly pleased with the high grades that Commissioner Füle gave at the last meeting of the Foreign Ministers as part of the work of the Croatian Government in particular in the field of Chapter 23 and in Croatia as a whole. Finally, I thank the Croatian Parliament and the National Committee for the support without which such a successful end of the negotiations would not be possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74652	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Ms. Representative Marija Pejcinović-Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74653	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Madam President of the National Committee, the Honorable Mr. Chief Negotiator, dear colleagues and colleagues. Practical colleague Pusić and Mr. Drobnjak have said almost everything about where we are now and what awaits us, so I may try to approach this topic from a slightly different point of view which has been the subject of all topics of Croatian accession negotiations recently. Our negotiations in several points are significantly different compared to previous negotiations. First of all, it is the most complex negotiations so far, and how the scope of the acquis of the European Union and the wider so-called ". other criteria, as well as those of some others I will touch more at the end of my exposure. Since the mid-1990s, the European Union has been developing the so-called '90s. Copenhagen criteria. Until then, the countries had entered into the foundation of a single very short article of the basic treaty, Article 237, which said in about one sentence that all European countries could become members of the European Union and that story ended. Until that time, until the Berlin Wall fell until, as members or candidates for membership in the European Union, the countries which had different political and administrative heritage were in question of negotiations. In fact, the question was how many countries on the one hand are their economies of the market economy, and on the other hand how much their democratic process allows for the rule of law. And so the European Union came up with so-called. the Copenhagen criteria which have defined in three points what one Member State that is to enter the European Union has to meet. The first criterion is political, second legal, and third economic. And only a year after that was founded was the fourth criterion in Madrid, so-called the administrative criterion for the European Union to set up the so-called so-called "Fifth Wave" in the end after the fifth wave of enlargement. the absorption criteria which, in this case, applied more to the European Union itself than to those countries that would be running or running for membership in the European Union, which meant the possibility for the European Union itself to go further at some point. Each of these criteria has been further tightened in recent years, and some of them have already significantly slowed the accession process and for some countries, and that should be said, the process is already at stake. In fact, there is one country that has started negotiations with us, which has practically kept them frozen lately, and the question is how will this process go from one side to the other. It's about Turkey. The first criterion, therefore, is the political criteria. In our case, then, we had an apparent new chapter, chapter 23, with significantly more stringent criteria for fulfillment. How much of this is the chapter of all chapters, and how much of it is, in the end, it turned out, although it did not work at the beginning, that it would go over and over again in the negotiations, showed a series of criteria for opening and closing the chapter. So today we're talking about I mean 138 total criteria, and these criteria in chapter 23 make up one tenth. Therefore, of the 35 chapters only chapter 23 carries a tenth of all that Croatia had to do. And so it's no wonder that this particular chapter was the last one that went through the screening process and the last one that could have been opened and actually as seen, and the last one or the last one that we're going to close very soon. On the other hand, the second criterion, the acquis is becoming more and more extensive. It's an old thing, it's always happened, however how new contracts are special, so if you take that years to be the first basic so-called. The Roman Treaty has not changed for 20 years, 30 years then, suddenly within 20 years, at least five times has been changed and still the European Union thinks it has not achieved in the right sense institutionally what it would like. So here is the legal gain, and it is estimated that several thousand cards of new acquis come into circulation every year, the community's competences are expanded, the areas of co-decision between the Council and the European Parliament, etc. So, in any case, for each new member, extremely in the negotiation process, more and more extensive work. We know that in the Croatian Parliament because for this year we have adopted everything that had to be adopted from before, but there is a provision left to adopt a new acquis. So even when we have finished negotiations in the 30th chapter, it remains for work and at the time until accession to receiving a new acquis. The third criterion, the economic criteria, I don't think it should be specifically discussed in terms of the financial and economic crisis still being felt. Of course, the fact that this criterion is to be met becomes an ever greater and stronger challenge. And within these first four criteria, therefore the administrative criterion means, of course, the implementation of these first three to make the functioning of the administrative structures of the state adequate in these increasingly complex membership conditions. And finally, the absorption criteria that have not yet been formalised as a criterion, but as we have experienced at the end of the negotiations are becoming increasingly important regarding the time horizon of future enlargements. In fact, part of the delay in our negotiations, which is particularly visible now at the very end of these negotiations, has just come from a classical dilemma that has been present for decades in the European Union, the enlargement of the Vs. deepening. That is, it has priority, further expansion or consolidation at this point already quite large and increasingly diverse Union. This latter is, in fact, at the heart of the problem of further enlargement, and it is being placed mainly and thus has always been the case, the countries that founded the European Union, i.e. the European Economic Community, France, the Netherlands, Belgium, and to some extent Germany, although with a slightly different aspect. So, the axis that everyone says sets out the path of the European Union, France, Germany, has exactly the leverage to want to see the first consolidated Union and then expand, or in any event, if it does not stop the enlargement process, it is important to ensure that the European Union, as it is, is now starting to function better. That is why, and because of the difficulties in the functioning of some new members, the European Union has introduced a system of criteria for all new enlargements to ensure that once they become member states can function in the EU without additional criteria. This meant a whole new dynamic and new challenges for negotiations and negotiators on both sides. Because the methodology is new for both the European Commission and other institutions involved in the negotiation process. All those who follow in a little more detail of the negotiations know that in the first year of the negotiations, this fact has therefore not been prepared for the process either, the new process and the way in which the negotiations have been negotiated has also slowed down. You know that in that first year, we opened only two chapters without standard because still European institutions could not agree on how this system would be put forward and how it would monitor how the criteria were met. But that meant to us that we were slowed down so at the initial stage of the negotiations. At the same time, this has also provided for Member States a number of new levels at which membership can be used to seek solutions to some of its bilateral issues open with the candidate country in the negotiations. We have experienced this particularly painfully in our negotiations, and we have paid for a significant delay in the negotiations. It should be remembered a year when Slovenia unfortunately stopped us, slowed us down, and eventually stopped during its presidency in a way that, therefore, had to be made important in doing so in order to reopen the negotiations. In this respect, as we know, some Member States have also played a role, some partner countries and outside the European Union, but I think on our part, an extremely important role has just been played by the Government headed by Mrs Kosor if you remember when she came to the head of the government only five chapters were closed and only two years ago. So if we look at that we are now on 30 closed chapters, we can see how big a shift has been made since then. However, I am now coming to this issue of the work of the National Committee. The Croatian side also introduced a special newspaper and quality in the negotiations. In fact, like no country before, we have entered into negotiations with the consensus of the most important political parties in Croatia. That is precisely what helped to make the negotiations on the European side worse in general, and I talked about them earlier, and that is why this very long introduction we wanted to do our part of the job in such a way that we wanted to take into account all the negative circumstances that objectively slowed down our negotiation process and, of course, do all of this within relatively acceptable time limits. I believe that we all agree and that that's what we thought when we opened negotiations or when we only imagined them, that our negotiations could and should have been faster. I don't think we should talk about it, they certainly are that the negotiations were being conducted the way they led to our expansion. We could really be already a solid Member State, we could use European funds in a different way and everything would be different. But it's not. These are the political circumstances that have been happening in Europe, and we have, therefore, found ourselves in a situation that we have several times shifted the deadlines that we thought were feasible and that we were administratively and politically ready to implement. However, it should be realistic when we are alone, indeed the very end of the negotiations should be said that under the circumstances we have done what was possible under these circumstances. It is clear that negotiations are run by the government and its negotiating teams. In that sense, I would also like to thank President Kosor for the government's leadership, which took this job as visible in the results with the greatest seriousness. But certainly also to the main negotiator and his teams who are really big and who have worked very hard and well at this time that we have really come to the very end of the negotiations right now. In our case, of course, it is of considerable benefit to the National Committee of the Croatian Parliament, which in practice brought to life the consensus of most parliamentary parties. And here's to us how much I count on an eight or nine-year-old report on the work of the national committees. As can be seen from everything the President of the National Committee has said and what is written from the additional material, the National Committee has done quality in its main business of parliamentary oversight of the negotiation process, but has been increasingly active as negotiations are ending in parliamentary diplomatic activities towards other parliaments in the Member States, in the European Parliament and beyond, but also in information activities. It is in this segment that I see the increasingly significant role of this parliamentary body. In fact, it will be even more visible in the next report how active the National Committee has been in this part in the last six months when it's broken, and I hope it doesn't break anymore, that it's broken how fast and when and how to cross the last meters of this really long, long race. In this regard, I can say that the National Committee has justified its existence and that in the accession negotiations, the Croatian Parliament has introduced a new quality that can serve as an inspiration to future EU membership negotiators. Negotiations are first row in the country. That's what we've always heard, but that's exactly what the National Committee had an opportunity to do in their work over the past few years and confirm. And therefore support for the adoption and implementation of difficult but vital reforms is crucial. I am holding this consensus to an end, because in the time ahead, it will be crucial to close the remaining chapters, but also to carry out the referendum successfully. Due to all this, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74654	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74655	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Drobnik, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Well, as we've heard, I guess this job around Europe is already ending once. Problem heard we actually have three, real problems two. So, with the fisheries Mrs Pusic mentioned that this chapter should be closed by 21.6 this year. So there are two other serious problems left. These are opportunities in shipbuilding and normal Croatian justice. Here we have received what Mrs Pusic called this paper where, among other things, it is said when it comes to shipbuilding that Croatia needs to ensure full compliance with EU rules on state aid in the shipbuilding sector, and especially for each shipbuilding site in difficulty, a restructuring plan must be adopted and consistent with the EU acquis and accepted by the Competition Protection Agency. It is then said that no shipyard will take new orders until the restructuring plans are accepted by the Commission and unless one of the shipyards is able to submit an acceptable restructuring plan, Croatia will have to adopt a bankruptcy plan for this shipyard in accordance with national legislation adopted by the Competition Protection Agency and the European Commission, etc. Recently, we also had in some afternoons that agreement on the transfer of $11.3 billion, if I'm not mistaken, to public debt, means claims that the state has towards shipyards. And I'm afraid the situation in Croatian shipbuilding is that the question is whether the bankruptcy of most of the state shipyards can be avoided. But about that some other time. The second area, which means this fishing industry, I would like to ask what it is today simply in action that we are again when it comes to SOPS we return to the terms of Thaler-Granic's 1997 agreement, which allows Slovenian fishermen to fish until the level of Vrsar. Vrsar, for those who don't know, is about 15 km south of Poreč. Half way, to put it that way, from Umag down to Pula. We all remember here who we were in that year 2000. - In 2003, that Mr. Racan and Slovenian Prime Minister Drnovšek succeeded, for Croatia I claim an unfavourable agreement, in a way that enables Slovenian fishermen to hunt to Lovrevica, means south of Umag, that is, our mountain to Ankara. To be honest, I'm not afraid that Slovenians will now enter Croatian territorial waters with their fishermen because they don't really have them, nor can I sail 5, 10 miles from their shores, as our fishermen will also not enter Slovenian territorial waters because in their de facto there are no fish so what will be there to spend oil, money, etc. But it's about something else. What one and the vis-a-vis of that agreement will prove before arbitration the continuity of the presence in that space. Likewise, to be honest, I am concerned about arbitration and I am almost certain that Croatia will ultimately run out of 150 square miles of territorial water. God forbid I'm wrong, but I think I'm right. It is clear that when it comes to this report, it is in Chapter 23 or better said to the judiciary, so it is said here that Croatia needs to improve its conduct, I quote: "in domestic war crimes cases, and in particular to establish records of the results in the implementation of impartial treatment of competent authorities and courts in domestic war crimes cases, and to take effective action to address impunity issues, especially through the provision of legal investigations and prosecution in respect of yet unexplored and unprocessed crimes." What exactly does that mean, gentlemen, and that was what we were talking about these days and in the Brijuni. We all know that The Hague will no longer be in Croatia to prosecute anyone. He will decide in these second-degree clear procedures to Gotovina and Markac, but after that he closes definitely the door and that's certainly good. And now what does Haag do? So, on the basis of this chapter, he transfers a reasonable job to the Croatian judiciary. What does that mean exactly? At the state level, the DORH focuses on the crimes committed in the Vukovar area, including the fall of Vukovar, which has been collectively traumatised by our nation for years because of the sins of clearly committing police-judicial institutions, but the package also mentions crimes against Vukovar Serbs, the "Atlantis" case, crimes against Serbs in Sisak in '91. and in '92, the killings of 16 civilians in Varivoda and Gosić after the '95 Storm, massacre against Croats in Novi Sel Glinsko, 1991. when 33 people were killed and one girl among them. Priorities are almost the meaning of crimes, so to speak, both sides. Whether or not this DORH's conduct is now going to cause earthquakes like a Hague trial, we'll see. Whether the nation will react as in the case of dragon's Hague verdicts, we'll see. If we don't know if we're gonna be witnessing some new rivals, we'll see. Or, as I know, how all these questions will be closed. It is interesting here in this Chapter 23, namely this paper, that Croatia should establish records of results in implementing strengthened prevention measures in the fight against corruption, clearly, election campaigns. That's why the party financing bill was passed overnight. Croatia, then said, needs to address the remaining issues in the area of refugee returns, especially fully implement its action plan for the implementation of refugee housing, former tenant rights holders who wish to return to Croatia, including through the achievement of the 2008 and 2009 targets for ensuring housing and outside the area of special state care. It's those mines out of those spaces. For example, in the vicinity of Bjelovar, about 800 buildings. But I'm asking myself a question when are we going to open the question so-called. "protected tenants"? They're for example. those tenants who have lived for 40, 50 or 60 years in the so-called "nationalized apartments" and to this day fail to resolve them. I absolutely agree that nationalization has made a huge injustice for those 48th, 50th, 51st, I don't know when they've been tortured by these apartments but today it's only so that those people who have been thrown out on the street can all turn into one new equal if not an even greater injustice because let's not interfere with the fact that two, three generations already live in those apartments. I also think that yesterday's Tadic's move to arrest Mladic will certainly help not only Serbia but "the whole region", come on, Slovenia is already in Europe, hence and Croatia, allowing one more natural communication between our countries, establishing greater trust, approaching faster, and I would say everything towards Europe. I would even dare say that this is what happened yesterday in Serbia, and even The Hague helped end the war that Milosevic... In 91st, she imposed both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. As far as pre-accession funds are concerned, clearly for me Europe is not just money, there are countries where European money has very much helped, which it has reborn. Yesterday I read one text to have 17 billion euros in Poland, or 25% of the total Polish location, but it doesn't matter now and from 2005 to 2013. On account of the European funds, the Poles implemented 55,000 projects and officials there expect to grow between 6.2% and 10.9% thanks to the Cohesion Funds from 2013 to 2015. What is important is that they are now unable to find, withdraw, talking about Poles 14 billion euros from these pre-accession funds for some 90,000 projects that have been implemented since their day of entry into the European Union, to this day. Secondly, I think it was Mrs Pusic who pointed out that when it comes to agriculture I read today in Vesnik that Croatia's agriculture used only 4.9% and 5.9%, however, slightly better 5.9% of these pre-accession funds, which is really worrying. Otherwise Croatia subsidises from its budget agriculture annually or this year for 3.8 billion kuna and I would ask farmers not to think of 15. 7. tractors move to the sea, because this is the time when they need to be earned for their subsidies and for shipbuilding subsidies, etc. And that empty hotel rooms or apartments are not subsidized. It is clear that there are different examples from Poland, for example, Bulgarians withdrew maybe 10m euros in the first year, but let us now let this go, in order for these money to be clearly used, the state should be regulated, combating corruption, be a strong economy, strong local self-government, etc., we have today serious problems, on 1.22 workers we have one pensioner, a decline in gross products three years in a row, a drop in industrial production, a loss of 140 000 workers or those who pay contributions in the last two years, unemployment among young people most in Europe after Spain etc. For the end, it is certainly one thing that no one in Europe is going to dig for us to do so, but I think that Europe must be needed for both the market and the investment. Last year, 460m euros were invested in Croatia, a year before 2 billion euros, a year before 2009, 4 billion euros, imagine how much the state lost only tax, how much state lost jobs can be easier to get to technology, and as much as it can help us, more than any external debt, perhaps one day 2020, if Europe survives, and wants, to come into possession of the euro and that we can deal with these challenges clearly. So Europe that, against Europe can only be large importers, exporters are certainly for, against Europe can be those who live from a state redistribution, the rest are certainly for Europe, they are or may be those who have made themselves rich through the conversion and now the state is driving in their own way and they do not want this to be questioned. It is against those who are on subsidies or incentives but certainly not against Europe those who are working to export, they need, but also, vice versa, who would paralyze the situation, parasites, they are good at this as well. In one word, it is good that we are now at the end of these negotiations, it is good that it happens in our neighborhood and I think that all citizens of this area can benefit from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74656	Thank you. We have two corrections, first Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74657	Thank you, Mr. President. If you had read the arbitration agreement better then you would have seen that the border between Croatia and Slovenia will be determined according to international law and there is no question that Croatia, as you said, will lose 150 square kilometers of its territory. Secondly, it's not exactly so-called. Nationalized apartments, rather than truly nationalised, alienated, stolen apartments, are these apartments, taken from Croatian citizens. And third, as regards the use of the fund, when you're talking about this fund, you should have known that the tenders for the funds from that fund are still under way. So it's something that's open, it's not a closed story, it's not just 5, a few percent used because the possibility is absolutely withdrawing those funds before us.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74658	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74659	Farmers, wait a minute. Mr. President, let him know. Can I get a warning?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74660	Mr. Grubishic, you have that minute again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74661	Well, there's nothing I can do to answer Cain. He crushed that car. But this is how the threatening style suggests that peasants should not come to interfere or I don't know why tourism on July 15th and because they got so much encouragement and tourism won nothing, and it talked about shipbuilding. So I am correcting the incorrect assumption that nothing has been invested in tourism, and it must have Mr. Cain's knowledge that the import of food to Croatia is 15 billion kuna a year, and that of these imports of food are 5.5 billion kuna entering the state register as customs, excise duties and VAT. Of those 5.5 billion farms, it belongs to as much as you said 2.3.3 billion. So they killed for a 5.5 billion steak killed the entire farm, i.e. A cow. ... Again, so I don't know what to do with the man team. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Is that correcting an incorrect quote. And the second shipyard and public debt, Mr. Caine, 11.3 billion kuna, turns the long shipyard into a public debt. This will also be paid by the taxpayers of Slavonia and farmers. Therefore, do not say that tourism and shipbuilding have not helped, and agriculture has.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74662	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Agent Tonino Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74663	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Chief Negotiator, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's a short letter on behalf of the Croatian SDP club, I would like first of all to highlight the support of this report relating to a period during which Croatia has made truly negotiating progress, but in some ways this period is also talking about the paradoxes we have been facing all along this long way towards EU membership, because indeed no country has been dealing with such a set of problems since the membership negotiations, regardless of whether they are generated by our internal situation, the situation in our immediate geographical neighbourhood or simply with changes in the EU itself. Let me remind you, here is Belgium, which chaired the EU, almost equalised itself with Iraq or with BiH because after the proper elections in the democratic country, it failed to form a government for almost a year. But it is important for us this time to point out that in that phase the negotiations ran, that the chapters were closed and here, as my predecessors said, we came almost to the finish line. However, it should be recalled that the great work has been published but that equally one very important stage is standing before us. Finalising negotiations with the EU is very important, certainly crucial, but business is also not finished. We are still facing the examination of the will of our citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which all this effort, this desire to join the EU must also be confirmed in a referendum. What is an extremely sensitive and important political issue at the moment is how to avoid a phenomenon in the EU that politicians and their proposals often say no. It is not only a Croatian specific instrument, it has happened in many cases when citizens of certain European countries were faced with the question whether to accept the version of deepening EU co-operation either through the introduction of the euro or by EU membership itself or by refusing to do so. Often it happened that the citizens were saying no. Then there would be really confusion, political earthquakes and political elites, in a repeated attempt to explain to citizens why the EU was actually created and created and which were the benefits of membership in the same EU. Of course, Croatia is a country that does not of course have a position like Belgium right now but shares many paradoxes and with these paradoxes we will have to deal with. First of all, Croatia is the first since Greece, it seems to me from 1979 to be the first to enter the EU on its own. You know when you enter the EU into a group of countries then the risks of negotiating are different. I would say something smaller because there is a greater thrust on the other negotiating side, which is the European Commission's negotiating side, then, of course, the political interest of the existing EU member states is wherever and where, when it is already negotiating with a group of countries and the best evidence, this is, however, the great accession of 2004 when as many as 10 countries have entered the EU. The consequences of this are still felt today, as positive to a much greater extent, but also negative. And, of course, the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to which under the current circumstances would never be possible. And here is 30 years behind Greece, Croatia itself enters the EU, which, of course, at all our internal limits was not a simple job at all. And that's why, first of all, we should congratulate everyone who's here in the assembly right now, but also those who are no longer and are not among us, on the work that has been done for the past ten years. To remind Croatia is the first country to submit its bid for EU membership in the 21st century. And surely here is a country that will enter the same EU on its own after a long time. We have achieved our way in times that have not been simple and at our borders, regardless of whether our neighbourhood is in the EU or a neighborhood still dealing with much more difficult internal problems than Croatia itself. That is why the conclusion negotiates with Croatia and I believe successful lobbying or campaigning directed towards our citizens to confirm it at the referendum is a job that goes behind each other. The EU project must not look like a political elite project that is imposed on citizens. That wasn't good. That's why it would be good to get ready right away and predict all the modalities of exactly what's waiting for us. Of course, esteemed ladies and gentlemen need to be aware of one more thing. The EU's entry does not conclude national history. Many of the problems that may have now been in our shadow of the fight for the closure of chapters or campaigns will appear in its edge just as we become a member of the European Union. This should already be discussed now and prepared for that period as well. Because we need to know that the European Union from 2012 or '13, '14. It's not the Union that was formed in '56. Nor was it the Union that had 12 members until 1995. The union that Croatia is entering must indeed be fought for multiple credibility and citizens' trust. I would, of course, end this address, say something not only about the Croatian problems we have been discussing for months here, but also about European problems. The problems of the European Union can be roughly divided into two groups. One group is the problems of functioning with the implementation of the Lisbon Agreement. Of course, they are not removed, and the European Union is working in new institutions that are not fully set up, in many cases still being sought. And another group of problems are known to many citizens more directly, which is the functioning or crisis of functioning in the euro area. The euro is not only a coin, it is also a symbol of the functioning of a single project which is truly the most important I would say throughout European history and precisely the defence of the euro means the defence of the European project. The second group of problems is something more direct right now, connected to us. These are crises in the border areas of the European Union, regardless of whether these countries are east of the borders of today's Member States of the European Union, from Belarus to Moldova or whether they are the situation in the Arab world, on the southern coasts of the Mediterranean which are currently making up a great economic, political pressure on the institutions of the European Union to really consider where the borders of the European Union are. Whether they're physical, whether they're valuable, whether they're political. The same way to welcome the conclusion of Croatia's negotiations with the European Union is precisely because, through our country's membership in the European Union, it sends a message to those who are not yet the European Union, they are east of us. If it is true, and I believe it will become members of that same union, whether in 5 or 10 years it is irrelevant and I believe it will indeed be the end of the political, economic and any other transition in the Republic of Croatia. Because only when the country at every inch of its borders borders with a member of the European Union can you really say that you have concluded the traumatic chapters of your history. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the disintegration of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in this area has surfaced 4000 km of new state borders. We are well aware of the circumstances and therefore it is to welcome that one of the performers of this policy has been deprived of freedom since yesterday. But, of course, business is not done, the consequences of this policy are still effective, they leave the effect and the only way to give a politically smart, creative answer to this state came from behind the '90s, to integrate this space into the European Union's tissue that has proved to be the most successful political project in all history. In conclusion, Croatia has a multi-regional character which will be confirmed by membership in the European Union. We're the only country in Europe that's coming out at the same time on the coast of the Danube and on the coast of the Mediterranean. Every foreign policy should be taken into account, and I think that our political capacities will be used to the proper extent only in the society of those who have shown by cooperation that they can overcome each other's past conflicts. Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I think that we should naturally thank the institution in which we act politically, that is the Croatian Parliament in whose wing the National Committee for the Making of Negotiations is also acting, and I think that the Day of the Croatian Parliament is in some way and a good framework in which we can once again highlight the role of the National Committee, and all of us, who believe, share the same idea of Croatia in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74664	Thank you. On behalf of the SD Club... the HDSSB Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Started with the wrong letter, but I got it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74665	Thank you very much, Mr. Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Drobnjak, colleagues and fellow MPs. Mr. President, don't replace this party name... Well, thank you very much, because these are... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You meant your coalition partners, yes, but well, it doesn't matter. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2010 I hope that this is the last report in view of the promises that both here and in the media are constantly given by the Prime Minister and this was the end of 2010, so here's half of 2011, so we'll see. After all, I don't think we need to run into each other and talk about dates 21, 22, 23, 25, etc. It is much more important for Croatia to be prepared and informed about what the European Union is and what is waiting for it in the European Union. That when we talk about preparation then it must be the preparation of both local and regional self-government, but clearly also the state apparatus and the state accession administration. In fact, it is about the use of pre-accession funds Mrs Pusic said was 5.9% in agriculture, and the cohesion and structural funds that are waiting for us, it is a mirage, these are Spanish villages still. We do not have much knowledge of this, as we have no knowledge of what is waiting in the European Union for Croatian peasants, Croatian workers, students, pensioners and all other layers of Croatian society. Here, the information campaign or information campaign has just begun. You are aware of this yourself that it was in the Flower Square 15, 20 days ago, was Minister Jandroković and here in the Parliament we had, but the Flower Square and the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia and the representatives do not and are not only part, so they are not the majority who should be informed of what is waiting for us in the European Union. HDSSB is not a Eurofob, not a Eurosceptic but a euro of realists. We know that the European Union is therefore both our plan and our goal, but we need to be informed and informed about exactly what is waiting for us. So in chapters 11 on agriculture and rural development, you see for yourself that there is a problem. This Regulation shall enter into Fishing clearly was resolved by the self-secret vote of the Croatian Parliament to the so-called ZERP's out. They say fish fishing in that band is 300m euros a year from Italian fishermen, as much as I won't say Croatia loses, but it could use those funds, so you can count on it for two years now 300m euros times 2,600m euros and about the boundaries that someone here has been talking about I have a special opinion and thinking. The arbitration agreement adopted here by the Croatian Assembly with 8 votes against, and all others for that individual statement. With the arbitration agreement with Slovenia, we have clearly reduced the chances, we have reduced the chances of a possible court for the law of the sea by this act that was done yesterday in the United Nations that this arbitration agreement was deposited in the United Nations. That's what the news says. Just yesterday that agreement was deposited in the United Nations. And then it is more than clear that information from Ljubljana appears that they have the right to hunt to Vrsar in Croatian waters etc. Furthermore, Croatia has not yet set up Mr. Drobnjak its borders with neither Serbia nor Montenegro nor Bosnia and Herzegovina. You know that, let's take Bosnia and Herzegovina as an example. The airport is a former military airport or airport, however you wish, and the lines are still controversial. There is no Mr. Matusic to lift my correction. Prevlaka and a joint complex with Montenegro are still the subject of the current agreement between Montenegro and the Republic of Croatia and the opposition. About Sarengrad Ada and 6000 ha of land registered in the catastre of the Republic of Croatia, the municipalities with a view to telling our Croatian side of the Danube not to talk. Nobody talks about it. When will that be settled? Shall we enter the border dispute with Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro into the European Union. I'm not even talking about Slovenia. We're here, I think we're here, I think we lost it here. It's a lost Kosor-Pahor thing. That's not what we're talking about. There are commissions, boards of Dunav-Sawa etc. They don't do anything. They don't even meet to settle things around the Barengrad Ade and 6000 ha of the country that's registered in the Croatian Catastre on the other side of the Danube and we can't handle it. And what we will do when we enter the European Union, whether and then we will have disputes, whether or not we will get involved in it, or solve it, or must it be resolved before Croatia enters the European Union. It is clear that Serbia is in a hurry and that is why Mladic was also arrested yesterday so that here, according to English instructions and some others, Croatia would arrive at the accession of the European Union. However, it is some higher policy that I would not be here in the Croatian Parliament, but it is all clear more than clear and transparent not to say transparently. Someone here said that 20, in Poland by state budget, from the state budget and from all the funds of the state of Poland, 25% have the Duchy of Poland, that these are, let's say, in the form of our counties or something greater, given that Poland is a larger state and has close to 50 million inhabitants. And how much of this relationship is in the Republic of Croatia. 90%, with 90% of money, has a central state, a central state, and with 10% of 20 counties, 430 cities, 430 municipalities and 125 cities. This relationship is unsustainable and we continue to enter Europe without the necessary decentralisation, regionalisation and change of the tax system. It is not touching and it is a clear thing, the internal thing of Croatia. But regions and regionalisation have certainly caught deep roots in Europe, and then there are cross-border cooperation regions. Yesterday we talked about cross-border cooperation between our counties and Hungarians, to say the southern counties. Then on cross-border cooperation with Slovenia, on cross-border cooperation, on Adriatic cross-border cooperation and therefore on regional co-operation. And we only have statistical so-called. NUC regions that haven't actually come to life. They're just being run in statistics as regions. Clearly, by its small gross social product, this NUC region bounces off five Slavonian counties and 3 central Croatian counties at the rate of unemployment. So, Karlovac, Sisak-Moslavina and Bjelovar-Bilogorska, which are together with 5 Slavonian counties in the same statistical region. Just the statistical region, no other region. The chapter on the competition has been decided by the Government, by means of an invention under quotes, by transferring the debts of the shipyard from 11.3 billion to public debt. It's nice to say, and then the people are thinking about what a public debt is. What's restructuring? A very convenient word to cloud and restructure banks as it was, not recapitalisation. Very interesting, the capitalization that the Croatian people have received and then the state has sold for cheap to those with whom we will now join the community. And all banks in Croatia except some smaller and Croatian postal banks are in foreign hands. Was it conditional, was such a procedure conditioned, Mr. Drobnjak and the gentlemen of our colleagues, to hand over our banks to the power of European powers, European more powerful banks. Was there a condition for the rulings of the generals for chapter 23, which had raised great dust for a few days, and then it calmed down very quickly and then they said a referendum rating fell, the number of those who were to join the EU on the days when the verdict was handed down to our generals in The Hague, and now it is growing again. Or do you think the Croats remember briefly and forget quickly? It won't be like that! Therefore, it is clear and loud to explain to the citizens and far simpler than to share brochures in the Croatian Parliament or in the Flower Square, so to organise a simple folk dictionary, so to explain at meetings throughout and across Croatia what awaits each of the citizens of Croatia when they join the EU. So that there may be no confusion, but clearly that the referendum would be credible, and not to vote by initiative, I am not speaking for or against. And what is Croatia, what are the Croatian views, or platform, during negotiations with the EU? We still do not know that in many chapters, especially those I have spoken of, which is the Chapter on Agriculture, Fisheries and Chapter 23, so Justice and Fundamental Rights. It is clear that this Report of the National Committee, which lists the activities of the National Committee and progress in certain chapters, openings, closures, etc., is written correctly and it is not to be rejected. The report of the National Committee is written in a correct text, including the number of facts relating to the negotiations with the EU and, as such, the HDSB club will accept it. But these problems still need to be considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74666	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74667	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm really sorry to hear about this report. I have to correct one of the incorrect allegations. First, it's one of the conditions that it was a sale of banks to foreign customers. Well, it has nothing to do with the negotiations or, at the time that it happened, we didn't even have candidate status when it had already turned. ... No, when we got candidate status, no bank after that was privatized. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, banks have long been privatized in one way or another. Anyway, it wasn't any condition. The same as the UN court's verdicts. There's no condition for the UN court's verdict. The Hague court, as you know, is under the auspices of the UN, not the EU. Don't confuse the concepts and deceive the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74668	Thank you. I have a reminder, a notice. We scheduled the vote at 11:30. After that, we have a celebration of the Day of the Croatian Assembly as I announced yesterday. I ask the leaders of the clubs to gather here at 11.30 p.m. and then down in the space intended to mark our Parliament. By the way, at 10:48, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. And now we're going to move on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Bozo Bishop.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74669	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Chief Negotiator. Thank God the negotiations are at an end and as today's Report of the National Committee, as the President of the National Committee said earlier, and taught by the experience at least we hope, before Croatia enters the EU, the opportunity is to support the activity of this parliamentary body founded at the beginning of 2005 which was very useful during its action and I would say of great help to overcome the many obstacles that were in Croatia's path. Although the report concerns the period from 1 July to 31 December 2010, however, for an objective assessment of his work, which was evident in numerous meetings and discussions, as well as by removing the dilemmas of sometimes the Union's doubtful demands for the benefit of Croatian negotiations. The lion's part of the job should be emphasized by the Croatian Government and Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor who, when everything seemed hopelessly successful with our Slovenian neighbours, found a way out and continued negotiations with her associates and should be congratulated and thanked for it. As we say, the door was usually closed, I think this time we can calmly say the wall was built and the Prime Minister, the Croatian Government and the President of the Slovenian Government, managed to bring it down. But not an important part of the work was carried out by the National Council in numerous contacts both in the country and in Europe, more specifically in Brussels and Strasbourg, but also in other contacts with leaders of many political parties across the EU. In order to assess the historic success of Croatia and the Croatian government in the negotiations to join the Union more realistically and objectively, it is important to remember all efforts and obstacles on the way towards the desired goal. Despite the fact that the birth of a modern Croatian state was unexpectedly painful, Croatia has been able to be on the verge of achieving its strategic goal of full membership in the EU in 1989, according to President Tudjman. A special thanks for this success should be given to Croatian defenders, those who sacrificed their lives for the creation of a modern Croatian state. EU membership will crown the efforts of a whole generation who wanted to return Croatia to the family of European democracies. I mention this because I think it best symbolizes today's Croatia. A country that decided to build its future on the foundations on which modern Europe is being built. Croatia has taken major steps to bring the EU closer in the last decade. Here, first of all, I mean steps taken in Croatian society. This refers to democratisation, to the rule of law, to the development of the market economy, to the freedom of the media, and to the degree of tolerance, to promote dialogue as an instrument that enables citizens to acquire knowledge and skills in order to better meet and cope with the challenges of open and complex society. And today, the topic of dialogue, dear colleagues and colleagues, is really being raised as a central question of the reflection of the future and of our homeland and our continent, but also of the global future. Today Croatia is wondering, it is no longer the subject of other people's debates, part of the problem, it is a subject, Croatia is respected. In this new area of communication and dialogue that we are opening and promoting, we are learning about the importance of representing both partial and group identities and expressions, we are opening a space for tolerance, respect for the other and the other, we are opening the space of one new European member of the EU Community. How did we make this progress? Progress is not random, the progress is the result of a clear policy that the Croatian government has consistently implemented. The internal political plan has achieved visible results in fostering intra-social tolerance. These are just some of the social achievements that so far affect not only social relations in Croatia but also the entire area of Southeast Europe. Once political frameworks have been set, the way for stronger development of the Croatian economy has been paved. Croatia is increasingly developing into an attractive economic destination and a door for entering Southeast European markets. Croatia is seeking to ensure a maximum favourable framework for economic growth and direct investment and to open doors for many international companies towards the markets of Southeast Europe. Our economy is already largely integrated into the European Union, Croatia is following global trends, European practice and standards and all development issues are being put into international context. The Republic of Croatia acts as a significant factor in economic and political stabilisation and the European Union bridge in Southeast Europe, which is of direct benefit to the entire European Union, because Croatia's full membership is in the interest not only of us and ours but also of the European Union. For Southeast European countries, Croatia has become a symbol that reform policy is possible and worth it. So today the reform forces in the region explain to their citizens the difficult reform processes with the successes that Croatia has achieved. Stabilising that part of Europe is one of Europe's most important security political challenges. The political instability of Southeast Europe would mean instability for Europe as a whole. This space must be stabilised and democratic and economic development further developed to permanently deactivate the potential of differences from the 1990s. This is why Croatia cultivates and improves bilateral relations with all countries in the region. The efforts we are making, all the reforms we are carrying out, are not targets on dates or on the European Union itself. We want our citizens, our families to start living in a society that will develop in peace, freedom and cooperation on the principles of equality and prosperity for all European peoples. All of us in Europe need to have before us the meaning of European integration, and by creating the European Union, the European continent, has entered its longest period of peace so far. It is worth fighting for a united Europe, a Europe of common values, and that is the only alternative in our difficult history of marked wars. The enlargement is to be confirmed today and tomorrow as a component of the idea of a united Europe as an internal energy of strengthening it, I would say that absorption capacity is important to the extent that reform capacities cannot be overshadowed, hence the parallel capacity of the Union, its members to remain competitive, efficient and prosperous and continue to undertake the necessary reforms on behalf of that objective. It is time for the deeper thinking of Europe, the European Union and its heritage may be imagined, however, in this case there remains an open question of a proper change in identity, which means which identity would then shape them. In this question, it depends on how long such a construction would last. This would be in any case a completely different European Union from the European Union and its founders' fathers. It would be the configuration of states but certainly not the one that is aware of the connection to the wealth of Europe's history. If prudence could be marked as the cornerstone of politics, then politics is where one who focuses on good goals, the one who tries to understand, is able to master complicated relationships. Political prudence is reflected in the search and finding of resources and roads to the last objectives of human unity. In Europe today, and this has contributed greatly to the economic crisis, in my opinion, two simultaneous processes are needed. The signing of national egoism, exclusiveness on the one hand, and at the same time the affirmation of national identity and multilateral solidarity on the other hand, is actually a matter of unity in diversity. All these processes were followed in the best possible way by the National Council of the Croatian Parliament since its draft, supporting all efforts and policies of the Croatian government as well as all efforts to achieve the Croatian people's goal. We believe that this strategy will also remain an open European perspective for all Southeast European countries, which would certainly contribute to strengthening stability and security in the area we are talking about today. It is important to maintain peace in this area, strengthen trust among different peoples and religions to create conditions for stable democratic and economic development, it would be bad if the crisis would lead to the rule of non-democratic forces, it would be bad if in crisis situations in disputes over sovereignty and border issues, and discrimination was again dominated by conquering nationalism, intolerance and the logic of political gambling. That's why this report should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74670	Thank you. We have one replica, Shime Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74671	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I very much appreciate you mentioning the first Croatian President, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, who said in his first programme about this: "Croatian rifle on the Croatian shoulder, Croatian wallet in Croatian pocket, Croatia in the United Nations, Croatia in Euro-Atlantic integration, Croatia in the European Union". To all those who are on this path, who have followed this path, who have led on this road to where we are now one step to join the European Union, I would like to thank the Croatian defenders and those who have worked on this programme from the heart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74672	Thank you. I have one notice, respected MPs and MPs, about how to raise accreditation and cards for MPs who have been invited and confirmed their presence at the Croatian National Theatre on the occasion of the visit of the Holy Father, representatives will be notified via telephone. The transport to Hippodrom will be organised, the gathering was organised in front of the assembly on Sunday (June 5th) no later than 7 and 20 hours, given the need for a security check-up before entering the buses. Accreditation for MPs attending the Holy Mass at Hippodrom will be shared to representatives before entering the buses. It is noted that, in addition to accreditation, a personal identification document is required which has been notified during accreditation. Just in time for us to be able to take care of it. And now a further individual debate, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74673	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected chief negotiator Mr. Drobnjak, colleagues and colleagues. This is really because so much has already been said today about Croatia's entry into the European Union I will only briefly refer to the report on the work of the National Committee for a period of 31. 7 to 31. 12. 2010 I would like to begin by congratulating and commending the work, expertise, quality, ability, and the main negotiators and members of the negotiating group who have really answered all the questions that have been raised and related to our negotiating positions, but have also answered all the information or answers to all the questions that have been related to those other countries that have entered the EU in the way they have addressed some of the issues, which have been the criteria for them, which the exceptions have really asked us to answer every question immediately, and there is one really great expertise behind this. We heard that our negotiations were different from other countries, that it was more criteria, new systems, that the criteria were strengthened. But it is certain that for each new member, there will be more and more of these criteria whether the legal gains themselves are becoming more and more extensive, and of course those shortcomings that have been seen when some countries enter the EU, of course, want to avoid them. And that's why this negotiation was this way. But here is the opportunity to commend and highlight the work of the Prime Minister and the Government, her belief that we can close these negotiations by the end of June, and that we have the strength, that we know and see it now that it really was real. As already said two years ago, five chapters were closed, now 30 chapters have been closed and one big job has been done. What I think is important now, which is in front of all of us and the members of the National Committee, and also in front of all the MPs, by consensus that we all address the public together and give the right picture of all the advantages that our citizens will have with Croatia joining the EU. I don't think any of the parties can be allowed now, and no MP can speak negatively about it because of some of his political points, but that by consensus we should talk about it and put that point on and on all this big work done. As for the work of the National Committee, I would like to commend the atmosphere, the work of the National Committee. As foreseen by the law of consensus, we made all decisions. So there was one agreement. We had to say again really quality information from the main negotiators and members of the task force, and I think we should really all support this National Committee report for this period, and we expect to conclude negotiations at the end of this month.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74674	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic is on his way. And now I would give my word to myself. I'd like the vice president to sit here. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam President of the National Committee, and Chief Negotiator. I use this opportunity and privilege since there is no room in the benches, and by tradition is the Croatian Parliament when I say that I can... turn to eating, so here I will take advantage of that little privilege. So, I need to look back at the work of the National Committee, because this is the report of the National Committee, in fact, the latest report on the problems before the conclusion of the agreement. I guess there's gonna be another one, but this is the main one. I would like to say that, in addition to the great pawnage and the very good work of the National Committee, which I have experienced in many parliaments where I have gone as a guest or received the delegations of other parliaments in the Croatian Parliament, especially in the way of organising the National Committee, the composition of the National Committee, and I think that we have hit one right measure, because we could actually follow the work of the National Committee, but we did not have to be engaged daily, all of us, but through our members we discussed everything that came into the negotiation process and it was very successful. I also wanted to address why visiting different parliaments in Europe, as well as the delegations coming to the Croatian Parliament, we repeatedly stressed the need for parliaments when the agreement was concluded in time to ratify the agreement. Because as is known after the conclusion of the treaty and the opening of the referendum, the will of the referendum comes the ratification process. If we remember 2, 3 years ago when we joined the NATO alliance 26 countries had to ratify those contracts and we succeeded together with parliament from Albania, its president, to achieve ratification in bricks 8 months since the conclusion of the contract. That was a great success. And that's why I think it's necessary to say it here. Here, just a week ago, we were in a multilateral meeting in Slovakia where they attended from EU members Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Austria and Hungary, I asked them all together for this ratification procedure when, of course, it comes in time to be included in Parliament's agendas of EU countries. And I can say that everyone with approval and, in a way, with one big one to say so in a friendly tone supported it and promised it would be so. Otherwise, in the last three months, we have had contacts and talks at Parliament's level with a number of countries such as Poland, Germany, France, Belgium, Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Denmark, the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovenia, Austria, Norway, Bulgaria, Italy, Malta, Latvia, Lithuania, where we also mentioned this matter in these talks. It was very good for us to say, in this way, that in these talks, there was a consensus in the Croatian Parliament on EU accession, and that is one great political capital that we tried to actually apply in bilateral and other talks, in the sense that there is no ambiguity in this regard and that we have achieved a political consensus in this way. Of course, all this will be possible when a referendum is held and when we hear the public and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who will declare themselves in the referendum. All those who speak about the need to inform the Croatian public in different ways, not only through the media and through booklets and the like, but also through various contacts, conversations, party, these, those, and to tell people about all aspects of European Union membership, including those that are not always positive, in the sense that we will only have some advantages. We will also have some problems when we enter the European Union and I think our citizens are ready to hear these problems, face them, and then, after all the aspects that need to be seen, I hope, I can make a sovereign and responsible decision at the referendum. Our campaign should be positive and it is certainly positive all the time, but I think we have a duty to present to the public those aspects that are not always what to say in the pink spectrum, but there will be problems. The National Committee also introduced one practice, which is very commendable, to organise a debate with the presence of NGOs, etc. certain issues that have been assessed by the National Committee as very significant or particularly significant. So civil society that could have presented their different or similar views and, in a confrontation of opinions, in fact, to clear up some of the issues that were of interest to the public, which had to be discussed a little wider and then decided. I must say and commend, why not, that in just over three years, the Croatian Parliament has passed over 270 laws, harmonising our legislation with the European Union, that this has been a great legislative effort, with everything we normally have to bring and what for the Croatian Parliament its basic tasks is, in general, legislative activity, but as the most representative body that we are, we have not been waiting for. And I would also like to commend the Government for its succesfully preparing legislative projects both in time and in time, the proposals that we could then discuss and bring to the Croatian Parliament, which in fact enabled the Government to adopt, in accordance with the dynamics of the negotiation process, sublegal acts under the laws that we have passed in the Croatian Parliament. Our negotiating teams that have been working continuously, concesively, persistently, at the head of the main negotiator Mr. Drobnjak, but especially our diplomatic representations in Brussels, Strasbourg, and other areas have actually created one atmosphere, a working atmosphere where there have been no major interruptions. But I also have to say, and that's what I've been saying to all those who have either asked us or wondered why our negotiation process is taking so long. Anyway, we had I'd say three slightly bigger stops or maybe sometimes block negotiations. I described them mostly as irrational and unwarranted, so now we don't go in here to explain why we knew it all, but we also didn't hesitate. Even at those times when we were negotiating, when we weren't exactly saying we weren't opening up any chapters because of the blockade, we were working on it. So, when certain aspects of this negotiating business were unblocked, we were prepared to continue with the least possible negative consequences because the blockade might have lasted several months, etc. It is also necessary to say here that the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament's services must be able to, in the process of adopting or discussing certain laws, certain decisions of the European Commission or of the European Parliament, and yet on the basis of the law which will be passed on to the authority of the Government, which is one part of these laws and of these acts will go through the parliamentary procedure, and therefore we need to train our services and also trained services in Brussels and Strasbourg and our people who will give us powers and select them to say, direct and thus actually speed up and quality the acts for which we will be responsible. All in all, I think we have done one big, no false modesty, no increase, but that we have done one big job in difficult conditions when Croatia was actually exposed to special observation to say so, to be the least of it, but we have endured it all. And thanks to one seriousness of political parties and, at all, political parties, national to say so to state policy on EU accession, we have shown one political maturity and far-sightedness in this and indeed without false modesty I want to thank everyone in participation in this big and long-term work that we hope is at its end. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74676	Thank you. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74677	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a lot has already been said about this period of work of the National Committee, which is more or less what I think we can all agree on. The fact is that this was one of the most successful periods of functioning of the National Committee. First of all, we should commend the government's work at the head with President Mrs Kosor and the work of the negotiating team, and certainly the work of the National Committee was significant during this period and contributed to the effectiveness of the overall negotiation process. The very fact that in the six months of the Presidency, the Belgian Presidency of the European Union, we closed 8 chapters, and 4 years before that, so from 2005, somewhere until the end of 2009, we managed to close just 5 chapters, enough to say to ourselves how much progress has been made, how much effort Croatia has made, how much the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made in this very short period since the moment we have already mentioned as a Crucial, and this was in fact the freezing of the negotiation process after the agreement reached by Mrs Kosor and Mr. Pahor. It was certainly a crucial moment in our negotiations, and today we can be happy to conclude here that we are at the end of the negotiations and that there is another short part of that road left. We believe that we will conclude negotiations with the European Union by the end of June, which of course does not mean that we have solved all the problems of Croatian society. I would say that only then do we get the right opportunity in a sports dictionary to go out in the field and in one competence, the right competence, the right competition with the state partners, not the rivals, but with the partner countries in fact realize all the strategic goals that Croatian society has in general. So I have to say that I agree absolutely with everyone who spoke before me and with the assessment that the National Committee really worked at one excellent level. Consensus was always needed. There was also a debate that required much more time than some other debates. But fortunately, the people sitting on the National Committee were always responsible for this work and we were truly guided by national interests, and that is why we simply finally said we would come to consensus solutions and those parts that were being negotiated, which may have been different approaches and reflections. And in this way we have actually provided the negotiating team with a more favourable situation because even after the position of the National Committee, it could have been even more intensely entered into the negotiation process itself. So, the fact that in this part of the negotiation process we had the chairmanship of a country that had not had a government which had already been spoken of here has not made it difficult for us to even a little bit of our negotiating process to express our gratitude to the Belgian representatives, the technical government that was doing this job to our satisfaction. Because I say close eight, temporarily close eight chapters in such a way, in a short period and open the possibility of closing negotiations by mid-year, so by June of this year, it was very significant for the Republic of Croatia and here we have succeeded despite the fact that some had doubts about it a few months ago, so they also advocated early elections and what we were able to witness on a daily basis. However, I would say that today there is absolutely no agreement at all in the Croatian Parliament that this process should be completed by the end of 6 months and that as soon as possible we become a full member. President Bebić has already said the activities of the Croatian Parliament which are very important in this period ahead of us and which will refer to the period of ratification of the accession contract in the Member States. The Croatian Parliament is already working intensively, all bodies would say the Croatian Parliament work very intensively on the job and do their part through parliamentary diplomacy. And I don't think we really see any more serious obstacles in the parliaments of the member states. There are those who have a very complex procedure for the adoption of international contracts, such as in Belgium, where international contracts such as this case of Croatia's accession to the European Union must be confirmed at a higher level and, of course, they need a little more time than others. But given the fact that the 10 countries that entered in 2004 negotiated slightly less than a year, or that ratified their accession agreement is slightly less than a year, our objective expectations can move around here. So we believe that within a year we can achieve this ratification process, or conclude it, which means that after a referendum that will be in Croatia we believe by the end of this year, after the referendum a ratification process will be launched. We also believe the positive outcome of the referendum. We see the latest results of Croatian research, the mood of Croatian citizens speaks in favour of all our wishes, which is that Croatian society is in general aware of today's position, it is aware of everything that is happening in the negotiating process. We today have the fact that 56% of Croatian citizens support entry into the European Union according to these surveys. Recently, this was a significantly lower percentage, and I would say understandable and emotional, and today it is quite certain and in the future to expect that the percentage of those who want Croatia to join the European Union will be even more especially when we bear in mind the fact that Croatian society in the whole referendum that was set in fact for the European People's Community 20 years ago, for the place that belongs to it in the Western civilization circle, where we belong, we return there. We are going back to the environment we created along with the other free peoples of Western Europe. Because Croatian culture and Croatian history have made a significant, significant contribution to the creation of the Western civilization circle. It is enough to look at what Croatia looks like, which we are inheriting and we can freely say that we are a very important part of the European continent, that we have given significant participation in creating a Western European civilization circle. Therefore, I really expect that by the end of June we will have a negotiating process, that afterwards the European Parliament, which we have promises at all levels from President Husek, who has absolutely supported the conclusion of the negotiations by the end of June and who has promised to join the debate in the European Parliament on Croatia's accession treaty with the European Union immediately, so that the agreement can be signed afterwards and after which, within 30 days, the referendum in Croatia will follow. Here, I think everything's said in this one. Once again, of course, we will accept this report, that the work of both the National Committee and the General Croatian Assembly should be praised in this process which was significant. I think that this axis, the Croatian Government's negotiating team and the Croatian Parliament have produced extremely, extremely significant positive results for the Republic of Croatia during this last period. And regardless of how difficult the negotiations have been so far are not so guilty of Croatia as the fact that the European Commission has taken into account the behaviour of the countries that have joined the EU before us. Regardless of this fact today, we are ready, and even more ready, after recognition by some member states, even than they are today EU members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74678	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74679	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Chief Negotiator. We should certainly support the report of the National Committee, congratulate the National Committee, you as chief negotiator, and I would dare tell us the representatives who also did our part of the work and the truth God on the current tape, but that was the situation. However, the question remains how do we implement what is negotiated and I would still warn of at least two situations that are very, very unpleasant and can be potentially dangerous regarding the already closed chapters and the monitoring that seems to be following us. It's about Chapter 1. – Freedom of movement of goods relating to quality infrastructure, i.e. accreditation, standardisation, measurement and conformity testing. Article 73 The Stabilisation and Association Agreement is conditioned that the Republic of Croatia must have a functional quality infrastructure as regards accreditation in particular. It is provided that the Croatian accreditation agency must be accredited from European accreditation, European accreditation cooperation, or sign a multilateral agreement with the EA and the follow-up of the multilateral agreement to sign the agreement with IALAC. Also, the Meriting Institute, the State Monitoring Institute must be a member of WELLMEC, the National Measurement Institute member of EURAMET, and all this is fine if there is no problem with financing. Namely, it is known that all payments go through the State Treasury and the Croatian accreditation agency was almost broke. Namely, the Croatian economy needs testing and measuring laboratories accredited by a competent national body, however, which has several accredited laboratories, certification organisations, so conformity assessment bodies the financial situation is getting worse and worse because although they pay for accreditation services, this money goes to the state budget rather than to improve the activities of the Croatian accreditation agency. To me, it's clear to the general public that sodium is related to various para-state agencies and bodies, but this is not the case. The Croatian accreditation agency has several hundred experts, external associates, experts, scientists working in Croatian universities, universities etc., and it would be paradoxical to have them in its payroll. And these are those intellectual services that are paid at the moment of accreditation. However, it is illusory in the market economy to expect someone to work for beautiful eyes and simply if experts, experts cannot be paid for accreditation, and as for their work, that is, to evaluate accreditation procedures, and as I said, the one who asks for accreditation will simply be no more. I would like to remind you that the current situation is that in Croatia we have about 250 accredited organisations which is one of the better indicators of such a recovery of the Croatian economy, but unfortunately now somewhere around 6, half of the 7th month, the Croatian accreditation agency is no longer available. I would also like to say that we have introduced some accreditation schemes in Croatia that neither our neighbours have been able to make. For example, a scheme for accreditation of medical and biomedical laboratories and now colleagues from Slovenia are looking for Croatia, or a Croatian accreditation agency to assist them in accreditation of some of their laboratories in hospitals. And we here from Croatia are in a position to think whether we accept it or not, refuse because of what this means an effective cost. Which is paradoxical. Dear Mr. Chief Negotiator, I appeal to you to help resolve this problem, to find a solution because now, at the 9th month, European accreditation supervision comes and if all such situations, including stable funding, are not satisfied, this will question the continuity of the multilateral agreement, which could also have a negative impact on the European Commission's report as it rests on the free movement of goods at the end of the EU. And from that point of view, Chapter One is extremely important, not to say crucially. Also, unfortunately, I have to say that there are some considerations that the Croatian accreditation agency is moving from their premises at the moment of the state budget being arranged and adapted to work. They're at the Ministry of Economy. It would be the same very, very unfavourable at this point, because in a two-month period, surveillance comes from European experts. And another thing I would like to warn about is the problem in the Chapter – Energy where the European Commission is constantly having objections to the independence of the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security, since the inspection is not sufficiently resolved there and is not provided with such a solution as is currently in the Law. So, a two-stage solution where the Ministry of Science has the final word or final legal word even in nuclear energy, it is one serious remark, it is not resolved in accordance with the international standards and conventions that we signed as a state, and it should decide that the inspection should be under 100% supervision by the State Department of Radiological and Nuclear Security, and this can be resolved by one indent in the amendments and additions of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74680	Thank you very much. Does Mrs. Pusic want it, in conclusion? Here's the president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74681	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since we are at the end of time, I won't be strangling you here for long, but I would really like to thank all those who have taken the floor to discuss the report of the National Committee, it is clear that we are in the end and that there is a need to assess the process. I must say that I would especially like to thank the President of the Parliament who thus gave us the recognition of all of the National Committee, which took the floor in this debate but also showed the fact that, in my opinion, the National Committees of the Croatian Parliament played a really crucial role in the first place, perhaps not in the negotiations but in holding a national consensus on one topic that had a lot of rises and downfalls, a lot of controversial points, a lot of points that certainly led many people to a single dilemma not only of political assessment, but of their own opinion on the subject, and I think that by looking back, we can say that it was the Croatian Parliament who, through many difficult years, managed to hold a consensus and preserve it, and it certainly shows the maturity of the fundamental institution of representative democracy in Croatia, which gradually matures with all of us. Two things, which just for the information that I'm not getting into right now, the topics people've been opening, two things for information. The processing of war crimes committed on Croatian territory in Croatian courts was mentioned. In the third report drawn up by the Ministry of Justice for Chapter 23, there is a report on the subject. This report is available to you all on the National Committee you can view it but it already exists on the government's website, where there are total statistics, how many cases, what ratio, etc. Secondly, recent surveys show 56% support among Croatian citizens for membership in the European Union, however, I agree with all those who said that information is extremely important. I have held dozens of public stands in city halls, cultural homes all over Croatia, there is a power point presentation, with extracts from certain chapters, which changes when it changes. Anyone who is interested in the pleasure at your disposal is standing at your disposal, only a presentation can be obtained and we can talk as many people as possible into such a presentation by municipalities and cities, that is better. It's like a jokebachter that presentation, it takes about 45 minutes, with great pleasure I'll tell you a few words about it and give you that presentation to get involved in that information campaign. I thank you again, Mr. President, especially you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-27-0.u74682	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we are going to vote on the debated agenda points. Here you go. Here you go, Mrs. Opacic. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have announced, we are going to vote on the debated agenda points. Please engage to determine the quorum. Please, let's check to see if we're back online. Look at 110, and there's something over 70. So, we'll pray, we'll obviously have to count the votes. We have a quorum, 110 present representatives and representatives. We move to the report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2010. The applicant shall be the National Committee. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2010 is hereby accepted." If we're going to get involved now, then we don't have a quorum again. Then please, we'll have to raise our hands. What? Let's turn ourselves in and see. 81, so we can vote. Please include and vote on the report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2010. The report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2010 shall therefore be adopted. Let's get involved and vote. The result? The report was accepted by most votes. 103 votes for, 4 abstentions and nothing against.
