ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u71175	Mr. President of the Republic of Croatia, gentlemen of Parliament, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, MPs, ladies and gentlemen. It is a great honor for me and also for Italy that I represent here, I would like to say it is an hour for me as a longtime member of Parliament and MPs to take a word in this hall in this plenary session of the Croatian Parliament and here we join together several happy reasons that we can celebrate together. Less than a month ago, June 25th, Croatia celebrated 20 years since its independence was declared. This year, Italy celebrates the 150th anniversary of the unification, we celebrated it in Rome on 2 June, it was the Day of the Republic together with President Josipovic, who honored us with his presence along with 80 heads of state and government and officials of international organisations that I enjoyed in Rome. A year ago 13 July 2010 in Trieste Croatia, Italy and Slovenia opened a new page in their history, in symbol of reconciliation. Also leaving behind a severe wound, a tragic wound of the past, in the sign of one faith in the future. What we called the ghost of Trieste, i.e. meeting in Trieste it is irrevocable and we will reaffirm it here on Croatian soil, in early September in Pula, as heads of state associated with respect through one fruitful dialogue we are there to interpret one wish, one friendship between peoples living along the Adriatic, also counting on the consensus of all our fellow citizens. We also want to gather all the feelings that young generations feel that will build Croatia's future, as well as Italy. And we have to talk to them, and we have to trust them. At the end of the year, the European Union, and we must not hide it, this new spirit that leads us there would not be possible without Europe. A European vision, a confidence in the common destiny of all the peoples of our continent, in respect and evaluation, valorisation of the identity of each of us, and that allows us to bridge all contrasts, and to expand that friend of ours and direct him into a larger project of interest and energy that each single country could invest. So Western Europe when it came at that time, when our continent was divided into blocks and the road we took 10 years later, in Eastern Europe, and now it opens up for the Balkans and the Adriatic, starting from Slovenia and now we are heading towards Croatia as Italian, as a European I welcome with great joy your recent entry of Zagreb into the family of the European Union. Your full entry as the 28th member states on July 1st, 2013 is a historic achievement, you have achieved this by perseverance, perseverance for 6 years which we know have been difficult and complex negotiations marked by difficult... and therefore you can be proud of the team you have made during those four years, led you first to the Atlantic Union, and then to the European Union. Newly, the Adriatic, the Euro-Atlantic Adriatic is now reuniting the regions and peoples that have so many common elements that is a great legacy that we leave to the youngest. We believe in Croatia and the same in the European Balkans and that is why Italy has supported your aspirations from the very beginning, your request to join the European Union. But for those who become members of the European Union, the challenges continue, it is a constant work, often hard, for the old, but also for the new members to belong to the European Union that gives you no rendition, so I am convinced that Croatia will be a model member of the European Union and everything is now on it to prove it. After joining NATO only 3 years ago, Croatia did not stay at rest on laurels, it decidedly set out on the path to reform and to meet all the criteria in order to meet all the criteria. Croatia's success is a significant example. And that is precisely what confirms that the enlargement process remains open, showing other ways of economic and social modernisation. It also strengthens regional co-operation and rejects every remnant of old rivalries. It opposes the shortsightedness of particularism and prejudices and stresses that the new member states admitted to the EU represent one wealth, not one burden. And that is why we expect them to respect their commitments and we sincerely hope that they will also make an innovative contribution to the big European house, the big European home. There is no doubt that Croatia will be able to do so and will be able to do so. Together Italy and Croatia can support the Euro-Atlantic perspective of the entire Balkan-Adriatic area and thus strengthen, stability, well-being of the whole region, which will be based on solid and lasting foundations. And just in that perspective, it is possible to break down old barriers, open borders to abolish border surveillance, accelerate the full freedom of movement of persons and ideas, guarantee full security of citizens. According to the European Charter, we have seen the confirmed rights of minorities again. The European vision connects unity and diversity, common democratic values through different languages and different cultures. The European vision includes and implies the same financial stability, growth, respect for rules, solidarity and therefore the future for our young people. In this part of Europe marked by this particular burden of historical events, this is NATO and the EU the next one of the far-sighted goals of integration and gradual expansion knew how to target this deep force that has flared in these historic shifts and has turned it into something positive. In this process, it is necessary to continue to produce all its fruits. The European and Atlantic perspective of the Balkans for us is a permanent strategic priority and this is the goal of the foreign policy of the Republic of Italy. This is one goal that we have advocated without alleviating the difficulties of the challenges that have been put before us to become an EU member and so we are saying that this is how we become participants in the national integration system. And now that we have fully fulfilled the acquis, we have concluded the negotiating process, we can say decisively, no Balkan country should be considered and looked at it differently from other countries that have already joined the EU. All these small but also large countries are invited to cooperate with the same dignity, equal dignity. The integration of the Balkans is necessary because of the stability and compactity of Europe, geography and history make it our interest, the interest of both EU member states and not only those who want to become members. With this... recognition of the strategic election of President Josipovic, President of the Parliament, the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who have made a decisive and visionary effort, an effort to achieve this regional style and aspirations to achieve these goals. After accessing difficulties, you are not expected to have easy tasks. Since the very beginning of the Treaty of Rome, Europe has always been one challenge prevailing always beyond all expectations. The EU that will soon be joined by Zagreb must now face two major challenges, the rule of the single currency and the Mediterranean, the Mediterranean. So everyone's clear about the urgency and seriousness of this dilemma. It's in front of all of us. The crisis of the single currency of the coin would also mean the crisis of the common European project. After such a step of advance importance as the euro cannot go back to the old situation without consequences. It seems to me after these very tense months that I think everyone finally realized that although the single market couldn't survive without a single common currency now the moment has come to ensure the security of this euro through another consolidation of so-called. The governess of the European economy whose foundations were laid during the last meetings of the European Council and finally through the decisive progress of this sense, the political meaning of European unity. Because as the Mediterranean, you know how to mourn our Adriatic shores. What happens on other shores applies directly to us. This is also true for Croatia and Italy, but it is also true for all of Europe. Therefore, the EU is invited to provide its contribution to the democratisation of North Africa and also to the Middle East. Therefore, as many different situations may be in individual countries, a strong EU action is necessary to accompany this very difficult transition process and to lay watch on the ground for a balanced political, economic and social development process. Europe cannot endure a failure on that sea where it rests so much of its history and identity. It is therefore a matter of serious defence and consolidation of the consolidation of the euro and throughout the Mediterranean area, because this role is in play, Europe itself is the role of Europe because you see the world going through constant changes. Mr. President, I know how much history has passed through this House through this House, how many battles in the name of freedom and ideas about the Croatian nation were fought right here. In the middle of the 19th century, our patriots had similar ideals and hoped to build each of their own national states. It longed for freedom with the principles of democracy, affirmation of also its own identity. After that, the principle of nationality gave way to nationalisms and dictatorships. The history of the good part of the 20th century was not generous to the peoples of Europe and was also not generous to the peoples who live at the borders between our two countries. The tradition of co-existence and mutual respect rooted in these countries and on this sea they were replaced by opposing pretenses, hateful desires for supremacy all the way to killing and revenge. World War II left us with very dark and painful pages. I'm not here to mention these sad events, I'm here to make a deep conviction that these pages will never happen again. The memory of the past must be respected by those who have suffered and shared with them a sense of human compassion and respect when it comes to innocent victims. Together with President Josipovic, I will soon remind Istria to bow down to the victims of a terrible, terrible past, to bow down to the innocent, try to draw close to those who have suffered injustices, but above all to reaffirm that this tragic page of history really belongs to the past, not to the present, and also to the future. With the past of fascist violence and war, Italy accounted for a liberating struggle, i.e. April 25, '45. And by declaring the Republic and also by the new Constitution. Mr. President, the presence of an indigenous Italian minority in Istria and in other areas where it is historically present, means in Rijeka and Dalmatia, as well as the existence of a historical Croatian minority in Italy, it is a kind of bridge, a kind of wealth in our relations. These days I received representatives of the Croatian community in Italy who gave me their own hopes and expectations and explained to them also the deep ties that exist between our two countries. The Italian minority in Istria and Dalmatia, Rijeka enjoys full respect for fundamental rights and also for financial support by the Croatian Government and now have the right to so-called. the double right to vote, or the possibility to commit themselves to a minority candidate, while at the same time voting parties' lists. These are very important achievements that I deeply appreciate. To achieve results when it comes to bilingualism, they are very significant. All Italian governments have advocated and strongly supported measures to preserve and maintain Italian language and Italian culture in these areas. The Italian communities contribute a significant, sincere contribution to cities, institutions where they work and contribute to the growth of the Republic of Croatia. Our schools are open to all and they will help education new, education of young citizens of Europe. I've already... And soon I'll meet them again in Pula. [[The translator doesn't understand.]] Representatives who have not been willing to participate in the exodus from their native parts of Istria, Rijeka, Dalmatia, I am convinced that they will be able to find the same, also that when it comes to them, all these principles will be respected, not for discrimination, equality in treatment and respect for their painful experiences. Common membership of the European Union, its values and its principles may best represent the way to overcome and forget, to cure all wounds better said, in order to become citizens of a broader common policy. I've talked a lot about Europe because it's a framework that connects us, unites us, but it's not the only thing that connects us. Our bilateral relations are excellent in all areas and this warm hospitality, I could try it myself, taste and a memorandum of cooperation signed by our two ministers in January... and signed a few days ago by interior ministers, they signed a police co-operation agreement that already confirms that long co-operation that already exists against crime and drug trafficking and which provides a legal framework. [[The translator doesn't understand.]] The same when it comes to helping our tourists, i.e. Many Italians who come to your shore in summer, as well as numerous Croats who come to our ski resorts in winter. Italy has been the first trading partner of the Republic of Croatia for many years, it is also the first importer of goods, as well as services from Croatia, and countries from which business and investment initiatives are largely coming. Culturally speaking, the testimony of our closeness is countless. The Adriatic has brought us a beautiful heritage that is finally rightly protected by UNESCO as a world heritage. I just want to mention a great scientist and a man of great culture, equally the predecessor of modern scientific theory whose anniversary we will celebrate, the 300th anniversary of his birth, and this is Ruđer Josip Boskovic, born in Dubrovnik, son of a wealthy merchant, originating in Bosnia and mother from Bergham. He was a writer, physicist, mathematician and founder of the Brera Observatory and rests until his death in Milan in this great Italian city. We can celebrate it together and mention it as our mutually respected ancestor. Mr. President, Italy intends to maintain this cooperation, this excellence in the cooperation we have achieved over the past few years. We will be with you side by side with a loyal attachment to real friends, persistent friends and far-sighted friends. Gratitude for hospitality, hospitality that you have given me I want to Croatia, and also to the Croatian friendly people every good and well-being within the European family in the international family in the joint achievement of these goals, a fairer and more solid world. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u71176	On behalf of the representatives and representative of the Croatian Parliament, I warmly and warmly thank His Excellency President Giorgi Napolitan for his friendly and encouraging address to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. This concludes this session for President Napolitan's address. [[Applause.]] Thank you very much. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. As announced we will continue the 23rd session with agenda point - Proposal for a Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 857 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr Mario Nobilo State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77680	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me to present the Law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which the government adopted at its session on 7 July this year. I am also conveying apologies from Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Gordan Jandrokovic that he cannot personally present this important law, because he is in the programme of Presidents of the Italian Republic and Minister of Foreign Affairs who are on official visit to our country. In accordance with its constitutional obligation, Article 10 of the Croatian Government is fully aware of the responsibility of the part of the Croatian people living in other countries and the need to protect their rights and interests and promote their ties with their homeland. As from the constitutional provisions, this Government has imposed these obligations in a series of its documents from the Strategic Framework for Development 2006-2013, the Sustainable Development Strategy, the Government Programme Strategy for the period 2010-2012 to its programme for the period of office of 2008-2013. In keeping with this assumption, but also from the fact that Croatia does not have one special single law that would regulate the issue of parent country relations with Croats outside it, there is a number of individual partial legal and sublegal solutions as well as general international legal instruments from various areas that are directly or indirectly regulated by this relationship, the strategy on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside Croatia, and then this law, shall be joined. A few words about the strategy. In May of this year, the government adopted a strategy on Croatia's relations with Croats outside Croatia. Its adoption created assumptions for the development of effective and systematic co-operation of Croatia with Croats outside it, and the first step towards the realisation of setting goals is the adoption of this law. Strategy and Law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, in which Croatia wants to strengthen one of its vital national interests. The two documents reflect a well-informed government policy against Croats outside Croatia. A few words in general about the law. The law regulates relations with Croats outside Croatia, respecting all the specificities and different needs of Croatian communities outside Croatia and Croats in BiH, members of Croatian minorities in European countries as well as Croats emigrated to overseas European countries. The protection of their rights and interests is further strengthened with the aim of preserving Croatian language, culture, identity, the development of cooperation with Croats through cultural, educational, scientific, economic, sport and other cooperation, as well as regulations and measures and activities on the return of Croatian emigrants and the immigration of their descendants. The special goal promoted by this law is to connect all Croats both within and outside Croatia to establish Croatian cultural community as a set of all educational, cultural, scientific, informative, economic, sports and other social activities essential for the preservation and strengthening of Croatian identity and prosperity. Let me below specify detailed activities that will contribute to the achievement of these objectives. The law provides for the introduction of Croatian status without Croatian citizenship as additional links between Croats and their homelands in terms of persons granted that status are not considered foreigners in Croatia. The law further provides for a decision to declare the day of the Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. It also provides e-education and textbooks from Croatia for learning Croatian as a second language in Croatian communities. The establishment of a Croatian language and literature lecture on foreign higher universities will be encouraged as well as the establishment of a Croatian language department in universities abroad in the environments where Croats live. Within the framework of systematic research and study of the problems of Croats outside Croatia, the government will establish a documentary centre and museum. When it comes to the economic link, the law further encourages the cooperation of Croatian businessmen with those in Croatia and investment especially in production and tourism. Further assumptions have also been created to encourage the implementation of development projects in areas of particular state concern, less developed areas and other areas of economic interest. The specificity between the intended benefits is also the so-called so-called ‘. Croatian card which wants to give Croatians outside Croatia favourable access to certain services, more favourable terms of travel, organised stay in Croatia and participation in cultural events. In order to facilitate the integration process, the Croatian Society of Croatian emigrants and their descendants who return and move to Croatia provides for the establishment of a special office within which all necessary information and assistance can be obtained in solving legal and other issues. A few words about the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia as well as the Council of the Government for Croatians outside Croatia. Therefore, the coordination body for the implementation of all these activities will be the Central Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and the Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be formed for Croats outside it. The establishment of a central state office will be determined by the central authority responsible for the regional relations between Croatia and Croats outside it, as well as the coordination and supervision of all activities from inter-competent ministries and other co-workers. The Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia will, as an advisory body, provide assistance to the Croatian Government in the creation and implementation of the policy, the activities of the programme in relation to the Croats outside it. The members of the council will be proposed from the ranks of the most significant and numerous associations, organisations and institutions of other forms of organisation. Finally, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to point out the deep conviction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that by adopting the law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, a solid framework for the permanent development of the link between the country and all Croats living outside it will be established. From the above, I propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77681	Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77682	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia discussed at its 39th session held on 12 July 2011 the proposal for a law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia as a parent working body. The proposer presented the proposal for a law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia as a law of national interest. He said that the initiative to create a systematic relationship between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Croatian strategy and the law was launched by the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and that it was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia who brought the Strategy of the Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside Croatia. On the basis of the strategy, the draft law was also drawn up. The legal framework defined by the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside Croatia is based on the recognition and acceptance of inalienable fundamental human and civil rights from which the right to protect and preserve cultural diversity and the right of minority communities to preserve identity, culture, language, as well as the obligation of states to respect universal principles and standards of international law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitution guaranteeing the care of the Republic of Croatia for each individual and part of the Croatian people living outside Croatia. This proposal defines Croatia's law outside the Republic of Croatia in three large groups: Croats emigrated to overseas and European countries or diaspora, Croats members of the indigenous Croatian minority in European countries and Croats an equal, sovereign and constitutive people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. They are all members of the Croatian people and have the same national identity and form a unique cultural space. The general provisions of this proposal regulate the status of Croatian communities and individuals, introduces the status of Croats without citizenship and decides to mark the day of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The section "Operators of Relations and Cooperation" provides for the establishment of a central state office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia as an operational and co-ordinated body responsible for all activities towards Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, as well as advice from the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, an advisory body which will be made up of representatives of institutions, societies and associations dealing with issues of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, those in the Republic of Croatia and in the world. In the chapter Protection of the Rights and Interest of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and strengthening their communities, it is dedicated to status issues of information and to the preservation of Croatian language, culture and identity of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The bill also addresses the issue of multiple cooperation, so from the field of culture, education, economy, health care and social care, sports with Croats outside Croatia, encouraging the return of Croatian emigrants and their descendants, and supporting particularly vulnerable groups of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The debate shows support for strengthening cooperation with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which will be evident in the construction of effective and effective relations translated into the law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia towards Croats outside Croatia. Due to national interest, it has been assessed in the debate to build a system that will in all areas of action and in an overall way access the issues of cooperation between Croatia and Croats outside Croatia, including mutual and systematic support and the achievement of political, economic, social and cultural, scientific and cooperation. It is stressed that the Republic of Croatia aims to achieve co-operation and unity with all parts of the Croatian people outside Croatia, with Croatian emigrants and descendants of Croatian emigrants and with all those who have a sense of belonging to the Croatian national being and heritage, with a Croatian indigenous minority in European countries and with Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a sovereign and constitutional people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It also welcomed the provision of Article 6 in which the Republic of Croatia clearly advocates the full achievement of the equality and consistency of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the recognition and improvement of the position of the Croatian minority in their domestic states. It has been pointed out that these different Croatian communities in the world should be joined in the spirit of the provisions of this law with the aim of achieving access to each of them, taking into account its needs and respecting its specificities in line with the long-term strategies of the development of the Republic of Croatia which rest on faith in the possibility and large positive shifts whose foundation and driver can and should also be the human potential of Croats living outside Croatia. All of this should be seen in the context of the ageing of the Croatian population, a negative natural growth has been highlighted, as well as in the context of the development of Croatian society and the need to secure human resources, primarily from the pool of Croatian emigrants. It is estimated that this legal framework, strategy and law will be an integral part of the policy of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia aimed at achieving an environment in which all citizens of the Republic of Croatia will have prosperity and social security. In this context, Croats outside the Republic of Croatia are the great potential of the social and economic development of the Republic of Croatia, and strengthening the existing and construction of new instruments of protection for Croats outside Croatia as a strengthening of cooperation with Croatian institutions outside the Republic of Croatia and the governments of their domestic states is of priority for the Republic of Croatia. The mutual information of the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside Croatia is also a prerequisite for strengthening the Croatian identity and cultural, economic and any other cooperation. Therefore, public media and Internet technologies are assessed to have a crucial importance in connecting the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside Croatia. The Republic of Croatia should support all forms of organisation of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia that promote Croatian language, culture and other ties with Croatia. Accordingly, members of the second and third generations of Croats outside Croatia are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. The basis of the activities of the Republic of Croatia is the preservation of the Croatian identity of Croatian emigrants regardless of the time and reason for their departure from their homeland, the degree of their education and generation. The Republic of Croatia is to be stressed to protect marginalised groups and individuals, especially older and sick returnees of weaker property. The policy under which all institutions of the Republic of Croatia will integrate the issue of Croats outside Croatia, including planning, implementation and evaluation of the necessary projects, into their social and economic policy programmes is welcomed. This will ensure the review and acceptance of the needs of Croats outside Croatia at official level and allow for the improvement of the links between institutions in the Republic of Croatia and those in the world dealing with these issues. All of this will be served by the organisation of the welcome office and the establishment of similar models in the local community, the county, all with the aim of ensuring more quality contact and timely information for each of our individual people in the world. The fundamental principles on which successful cooperation with Croats outside Croatia will rest have been assessed are full availability and transparency and the full and responsible relationship of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia towards Croats outside Croatia. Some doubts have been raised in the debate and the requested explanation regarding the status of Croats without citizenship, Croatian card and the long-term process of obtaining Croatian citizenship. By providing symbolic and other advantages, the applicant explained, the Republic of Croatia wants to encourage the strengthening of ties with Croats outside Croatia and also to encourage the return and resettlement of Croatian emigrants and their descendants. Following the discussion, the Committee reached the following conclusion with 7 votes for and 1 abstention: the proposal for a law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77683	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77684	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, above all, in this assessment of the state of the bill, certain constitutional provisions are first mentioned, and then it is literally said that Article 10(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia establishes the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to protect the rights and interests of its citizens living or staying abroad and promotes their ties with their homeland. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees special care and protection of the activities of the Croatian people in other countries, and then on the other hand it is said that the adaptation of Croatia's legislation to the acquis of the European Union is at the final stage, it has also required a change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and one of the issues that has been brought forward is the issue of voting law in elections for the Croatian Parliament, President of the Republic, the European Parliament, etc. etc. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitution in elections for the Croatian Parliament of voters who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia is guaranteed the right of three MPs in accordance with the law. I can vote means diplomatic and consular representations, etc. Right, so there is a will at constitutional level to take care of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The second thing is that I don't think they should have voting rights but it's a constitutional category and it certainly won't be able to change. It's true and I'll say it. Three mandates cannot change the dominant will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But I'm reporting for something else. I need to be honest and I can't apply. Prioritizedly, I quote on the three sides of the Republic of Croatia will encourage development projects that contain employment programmes for returnees and immigrants. The Government of the Republic of Croatia will also deal with the issue of funding for the micro-crediting of family economies and crafts programmes and the establishment of a guarantee fund for insurance and loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, returnees and immigrants to the Republic of Croatia, and in accordance with the applicable regulations, the financing of development projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina and development projects for the necessary minority communities will be ensured. That we have for ourselves someone will tell us where for others. But no matter what is clear, it is necessary to help, not like so far. For example, all the money from these budget reserves there somewhere in summer 2009 that went towards Bosnia and Herzegovina exclusively went for the needs of the Roman Catholic Church. Okay. The church needs it. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, too, money, but you know. Maybe that money should be directed first of all for life. Clearly, if the church can help you with the election, then you'll give it to her. Oh, my God, I guess it's a pragmatic interest. I just need to be honest and talk about it. But what's the point? We have this I read somewhere I think in "The Morning List" three or four days ago an office or so for emigrants or immigrants I don't know which is on the payroll, which is on the cost of spending more money on material expenditure than it was on helping citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2010. So our administrative office spends more than is helping Bosnia and Herzegovina, for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's the text I read on Monday in The Morning List. Is it true I don't know. And I'm sorry I didn't have time to take it out so I could quote or paraphrase it here. Now speaking I see in this argument that this law will not require additional or new funds. It's simply not possible, gentlemen. We now have the Central State Office headed by the Secretary of State. Article 16 shows that the Council for Croats is established outside the Republic of Croatia. I will not quote it now, but I will say once again that it is clearly necessary to help Croats outside the Republic of Croatia mainly those in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Without their migration, Croatia would have fallen to maybe 4 million people, I don't know. It's a tragedy. It is a tragedy for this component in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is a war, because Bosnia and Herzegovina's economic imperceptibility is incomparably greater than Croatia has affected that by the measurement of the population. So, in a way, it was a clear and unnecessary war between Croats and Bosniaks. I'm not going to politicize, but what's true is what you can see today that this war was tragic for both the Croats and the Bosniaks. The third time I'll say it, clearly it needs to be helped according to the possibilities. There's something else to encourage. Croatian companies make a bus stop in Bosnia and Herzegovina even though someone will say they should not be encouraged, because exports from Croatia's premises to Bosnia and Herzegovina if I'm not wrong at the annual level are somewhere around a billion and 200 million US dollars, imports around 600. So a total trade of about $2 billion. It is still our duty to tell Bosnia and Herzegovina with Germany, along with Italy's first economic market. So, Croatians in neighbouring countries, first of all, I place an emphasis on this meaning in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Slovenia, etc., Hungary, above all, must be the bridge of all cooperation whether it is Croatia and Bosnia, Croatia and Serbia, Croatia and Hungary, Croatia and Slovenia, as I know, Croatia and Italy. Article 22 speaks of who are members of the council, so says the State Secretary of the Office and their deputies, and representatives of the university community, the Director of the State Department of Statistics, the representative of Croatian Radio Television, the representative of the Catholic Church, the Director of the Foreign Pasture, and the representative of the National University Library and then the representative of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Association of Employers, the representative of the NGO that promotes the development of relations with Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the ring and others, etc. Clearly, it wouldn't be bad if it really were to make sure that HUP, that the HGK give representatives of these large companies. Because if someone at this point can finance the realisation of something, it's hard for these administrative institutions to do so. I can do these economics but they need to be represented by each other. It would be another good thing if we knew how much money, according to all relations, goes from Croatia to BiH. It's just, I'm not gonna say it's hiding, but it's hard for us to track it or we can see it. It is clear that the Prime Minister or finance minister knows exactly every item, but I think the time has come for the representatives to know it, that the Croatian public knows it as well as the public in BiH, so there may be less complaints about these relations with the Croats in BiH. First of all, to them because it's the most numerous group. It means that we know exactly how much the persons with disabilities are, how much they go for certain health or I don't know other luxurial or such institutions in BiH. The peace here is exceptional, understandable because the man who made retirement in the Republic of Croatia doesn't matter where he lives must get it. How much help to the hospital, University of Mostar, etc., how many donations do I not know the Church of BiH, etc. We never, which is the same inadmissible for an orderly state, found out how much money, although it seems to me that in 2000 I encountered one State Audit, so we never found out how much money went to HVO at the time of '91. '98, '99. the years it's been funded. In wartime, some claimed even a tenth of the Croatian budget. It's not disputed, clearly not for the military, it's not disputed let the money go for all I'll say cultural, health, university etc. institutions, to encourage even a small small small economy if it is possible when it comes to the Republic of Croatia. I said earlier, I may mind a little of that vote, but the Constitution has said its own and today it should also be fair and admit that the three mandates that will be won or which will achieve some political option abroad certainly cannot determine the political will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The Croats outside Croatia have a clear range of worlds. They're great people, they're working people. Many moved out of these areas because they had nothing, so they simply sought salvation in other countries, from my family and beyond. Some have been there for three, four generations. Some are 100% assimilated, but they remember the land of their origin. Now, if I'm not mistaken in Dubrovnik, there's an American senator if I think from Alaska also mentioned his Croatian background. About the return of those people who are 2 or 3 generations in America, Canada, I know, Scandinavian countries hard, it's hard to talk, God forbid. God forbid we can help the Croats in South America, Canada. I often hear myself, probably some other MPs, maybe ministers too, with one of their radios from Toronto, talking, etc., as correct as possible. I don't even know what political events they are, I don't care. But we need to talk clearly, we need to connect them somehow, we need to connect media, in other ways, etc. It is clear, gentlemen, when you throw yourself at me, that also in the Republic of Croatia should take care of the return of the refugee population, the Serb population from the area, mainly Sao Krajina and Krajina, etc. Sao Krajina. But this legislative proposal does not regulate this matter, but it is also a civilization and civil obligation of the Croatian Parliament and any current policy. We have to or we can't do anything, but we can be in favor of this law, but let's not say in an explanation that money is not necessary. Finally, today the Italian president will also speak for this speaker, so this practice has Italy, similar practice has Hungary, a similar practice I suppose Slovenia has, as I know, other countries that have strong migration and such a law certainly is not a Croatian patent. And that should simply be emphasized. All help their minorities according to their own capabilities, this must and Croatia. Of course, God never even think about war again. There have been problems in the past, since the issue of Housewives in BiH, it seems to me that over 700 may well be 800 thousand of the same without criteria. The war is behind us, the non-selective assistance is also behind us, the instrumentalisation of Croats outside Croatia is also behind us. Therefore, new relations should be built, not on some party premises or assumptions, but on the national interest of the Croatian state, and certainly one of the fundamental national interests is to preserve the Croatian component, so I will call it, beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. And I've said so much, there's no need to be against the conditions of this law, but it's clear that the funds need to be provided. Because without money, there's no music.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77685	Thank you. We have three corrections. First, Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77686	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's Mr. Caine talked very little about this law, and he talked about everything and everything else, so he said among other things that money from Croatia went only to the Roman Catholic Church. That is not true, and later in his presentation he mentioned some other institutions where money from Croatia went. I would just remind myself that Croatia was funded by the University of BiH, defenders, various Croatian institutions, education, cultural institutions and hospitals, scientific institutions and scientific projects. Therefore, it is ugly to say that the money from Croatia went only to the Roman Catholic Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77687	No. I said... That's what I said. [[/The speaker's off, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77688	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77689	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Caine, one more clarification and one little correction so that it doesn't happen again later, you understand? That's all. So, when it comes to the office, then there's been given the wrong information, perhaps malicious in the media, how it's going to cost as much as that. It won't cost anything, zero kuna. Why? Well, because there are offices, there are people, it's about redecoration. So no more money than it is. When it comes to new money, new funds here in this document stand for this year will no longer be needed. It's number one, and number two everything else that happens and if there's more to what we have right now, one smart redistribution, one smart, I'd say clean management we're going to achieve a lot more impact. And that's the key thing, and actually once again, honestly, I hope you'll support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77690	We have another correction, Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77691	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr Cain spoke of helping sent to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The assistance sent by the Republic of Croatia cost the Republic of Croatia much less, but unserious and unmeasured statements by some Croatian politicians that cost not only the Republic of Croatia but also Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The result of those who provided assistance and those who attacked Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina is those who attacked Croats mostly unmeasured statements. Damir, for now you're leading... 2:0.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77692	On behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Mr. Mario Nobilo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77693	Thank you, Mr. President. One interpretation, i.e. an explanation of the costs that Croatia has in relation to helping Croats outside the country. Of course, most of these costs have been for many years in the function of war injuries both in Croatia and in BiH, so the process of taking care of a large number of about 120 thousand refugees most of which have been integrated into Croatian society through the sequence of war injuries and the stimulation of return, which is also the Croatian national interest of Croats in the parts of the BIH from which they have emigrated. So for many years this aid has been in the function of solving the war consequences, integration or return already according to individual selection of each individual. However, I would just like to remind myself that not so long ago I had the pleasure to present for the first time to the Croatian Assembly of International Development Assistance, all the projects that Croatia funded, including the fact that the largest number of these projects refer to Croats outside the homeland, and especially those in BIH were taxed and can be well read about how far it went to Mostar University, hospital, rebuilding churches, materials for rebuilding houses, etc., so that we had opportunities not so long ago, and that was the first report we presented to the Croatian Parliament because that part of the business is being conducted through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so I hope that with this good practice of transparency we will continue and now and when through the central office we want to lead a peaceful strategy of relations with the Croats as a constituent people in Bosnia, the rights and the interests of minorities and the Croatian people who may have the right to have the status of their own.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77694	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77695	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. We are talking about a legislative proposal that was born for a long time where a strategy was first adopted on the relations between Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and then a legislative proposal that is hardly full of 10 years after the changes that took place in this legislation in 2000 and which our Croats in the diaspora talked about, so first of all, the Croats who moved to other countries before 1990. It seems difficult not to notice that such legal proposals are interesting to come somehow in pre-election times. When someone says the list of voters is controversial, then I always say that one of the parties who cares about the list being messy has a top-of-the-line, chess dictionary said, ahead of the election. When Croatian heroes and generals are imprisoned at the same time as they are proposed to put defenders in the Constitutional category, then it is also the creation of an unclean conscience or the creation of another top secret. When the mandates are to be won, three parliamentary MPs in the diaspora are then proposed such a legislative proposal, on Croatia's and Croat relations outside the Republic of Croatia. However, regardless of which, the HDSSB Club is for this bill, clearly with certain points of view, criticism and observations. No matter where it is brought, and in pre-election times, it is good to do this seriously and it is good that although this is the first reading, it comes with certain repairs, with certain perhaps new items in accepting this legislative proposal. When we voted last year in June of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in which the creation of the SAO of the province was scandalously introduced, you better put on the second day right after the adoption of the Constitution, the so-called June so-called. You have put the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the agenda of the 1st point of condemnation and the marking of communist crimes. It's all amortization and an attempt to wash your conscience according to what you're doing. This is not in the full sense of the word I was talking about but in any case it happens at a pre-election time. But I say no matter what, the HDSSB club will be for this bill. Now, what's in this bill isn't completely clear? Thus, the establishment of a central office with the Croatian government is no longer a clear role, the future and the scope of the work of the Croatian Emigrant Mother. Therefore, it is not clearly separated and defined the role of the central office and what remains or remains of the Matika emigrants of Croatia for which I must say commendably that it works and which achieves certain results which are envious. Furthermore, it is clear that, like any central office, like all agencies, committees, seduces and that everything besides the ministries carries certain financial allocations for the work of the office. It is assumed that this central office would have some kind of budget up to about 15, 16 million kuna for its work. And if we know that in the government of the Republic of Croatia and in Croatia we have 65, 70 such agencies of central and other offices, institutions, etc. then this central office is another additional burden I would say on creating another small segment of increasing administration and paying clearly through this office and through the money of our taxpayers. Furthermore, the same constitution that you adopted last year, and I am not ashamed that I did not vote for it, I am not ashamed to say it, has determined that our diaspora is therefore three categories of Croats, so those who are the diaspora of Croats who are national minorities in neighbouring countries and to say Croats in BiH who are natives who are the constituent people of BiH, have the right under that Constitution to only three parliamentary MPs, and in the former Constitution it was the right of 5 parliamentary deputies. At the same time, they gave their coalition partner the right to secure three parliamentary deputies. It was a store. And now that we have forgotten it a little bit as we put forward a proposal for a Law on the Relations of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Well, he can't. He doesn't make sense to the people for so short as he thinks. We know well, and we all remember that the emigrated Croats made a huge contribution to the creation of the Croatian state in the '90s, '91. but they also know that the money that they are is not just about money, and that I am not talking about how many have come here to defend the Republic of Croatia with their personal physical presence and to become independent and sovereign already once. But when we talk about money, they know and talk and nobody can stop them from saying how much money they gave, and how much money was lost after the war in whose pockets and who knows whose accounts not only throughout Croatia, but around the world. And it hurts them, it hurts them very much. And then it hurts them very much when a law like this is born for 10 years, which finally, I hope, after reading again, will be well arranged for the relationship of Croatia's country of origin with its emigrant, with its diaspora, with the Croats in BiH, with Croats who are a national minority in Vojvodina and actually do not have the status of national minorities in Montenegro and Hungary, therefore the surrounding countries. When I look at this legislative proposal, then I have managed in some way to get and compare the proposal of the Diaspora Law and Serbs in the region, so the Serbian law that is created at the same time as ours. And trust me, there are so many similarities that it's amazing. And the difference, the difference clearly exists. There are differences, but legal proposals are not to say prescribed, but almost the same. Here's if anyone knows a Cyrillic can get to read this bill. Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, our diaspora and the overseas countries and in European countries say and writes and screams that Croatians in the diaspora do not need privileges but only what they had until 2000 the right for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia to achieve without administrative obstacles in the Ministry of Interior their right to Croatian citizenship. And do you know how many thousands of Croats and those who, according to their ancestors, are looking for and waiting for Croats in the MUP in one single office to exercise their right, not a privilege but a right, since they feel that the Croats are entitled to Croatian citizenship, they also have the conditions that are prescribed. But it gets stuck, it waits indefinitely, administers needlessly, determines whether it's in a work book published in some kind of Yugoslavia in '69. Or I don't know what the nationality of the Croats is. Well, you all know, and we all know that that's when someone should have written it, someone shouldn't have written it, and somewhere it wasn't asked to be written. Well, if it doesn't say the nationality of the Croats, then there's a problem with achieving Croatian citizenship, that's really funny. And by both father and mother, etc. And according to their line is what Croatian blood says. And how long will that take? We can pass a hundred laws if it's stuck on some kind of clerk, an apartment at the Ministry of the Interior or some other ministry. And now that we're talking about the concern that should be run by the office, the central office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is established, we need to say what is going on with the other administrators in the ministries dealing with similar problems and are in charge as advisers or others in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Labour, the economy MIN GORP, as it is called entrepreneurship, etc. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, as far as I know, has a colleague, has over 25 advisers and in connection with the diaspora problems. They will not be involved in the work of the Central Committee, so what will they do. After all, I must say that Croatia, which has almost, I would say, is difficult to determine, but as many of us in Croatia are so many outside of Croatia, it would not be strange at all, it would be actually realistic and normal if it had a ministry of emigrants dealing with this problem, rather than a partial, segmentally divided by European integration, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Internal Affairs, the central office, the queen of emigrants, etc. We're actually creating a polypragmasy as we say, is that right, Mr. Hebrang? We're medics, and then we're doing polypragmasia in this segment. I said that the HDSSB club would accept this proposal, but I hope that by the second reading and some things will be clarified, clarified and improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77696	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77697	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Grubisic, vice president of our board, it is important to clarify your claim that this is brought at the time of the election, so that people do not send a message that it is indeed some sort of trick. This is an initiative that was launched long ago. We know that there are certain priorities in the country and simply things come to their place when they come. On the other hand, when it comes to the vote of Croats outside Croatia, you know and the entire Croatian public knows that it has always been a matter of dispute both in Croatian politics and in the Croatian public. And because of this and such reluctance, we have estimated that more damage has been suffered by Croats outside Croatia than is the benefit of having no idea how many representatives in the Croatian Parliament. This was the reason why we agreed and why we supported this kind of consensus as I expect that we will now and on this issue reach consensus among all political parties, once and for all close this opposition to Croatia's relations with Croats outside Croatia and realize that this is a mutual and national interest for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77698	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77699	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So, of course, the Constitution established an obligation to protect the rights and interests of its citizens who live or reside abroad and promote their ties with their homeland, and also guarantees special care and protection for parts of Croatian people in other countries. So far, concern about the protection of the rights and interests of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia has been placed in the area of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, as well as other ministries that have some of the issues of interest for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. An independent service for Croatians abroad and culture, care, preservation and national identity of all generations of Croats abroad has been established. The service then encourages their return to the Republic of Croatia, should take care of the consistent Croats and their adaptation to life in the Republic of Croatia, prepare and implement competitions aimed at providing support to Croatians abroad and inhabited Croats, care for respect of the status of Croatian indigenous minorities and the exercise of their minority rights, and monitor the legal and political position of Croats abroad. Then we have so far the queen of emigrants, the Croatian queen of emigrants who, by her actions, is focused on the preservation and development of the Croatian national, language and cultural identity of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. We have the youngest Croats, the Committee for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia as the home working body of the Croatian Parliament responsible for the Croat outside the Republic of Croatia. In fact, here I have now listed the structure of people who are actually dealing with these issues about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, that is, the relations of Croats with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. However, existing institutional solutions and accepted practice in relation to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia have proved insufficient. I wonder why, we wonder why, if the existing didn't work, who was responsible for it. You know that practice if you don't know something or something isn't right, let's start away from other agencies, seduce them, etc. Of course it's perceived and it's true that it's an increase in the administration. There is no single law that regulates all these relations but, of course, according to individual ministries, there are various partial solutions that are not sufficiently regulated by these relations. There's overlapping, whether or not there's a vision, maybe there's no plan, maybe there's no structure. I repeat again, where so far are the results, who is responsible for that, whether there are databases, whether there are any known how many people are coming, what is with our Croats outside the country. I know the data, and we all know that people are waiting, that people want to invest, that they've lost hope, that they live in organized countries, and we're here to create and create assumptions that they're coming back. But we can't romantically create that. Let's look at Ireland. She has a system, the state struggles to get quality people back. We should have a plan. We're wondering where our lobbyists are? Where has state policy been so far? What is now waiting before the end of the term of office and, of course, it is thought that it is a pre-election story, regardless of what the chairman of the board has explained to us earlier. The fact is that there is no special body that would coordinate the work of all state institutions that worry about the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. These are all facts just returning to what the existing institutions have been doing? That they were doing their job safely so that the satisfaction would be better and that there would be a better relationship between Croats within the Croatian state and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. We need to determine what we want, which is national policy. What Croats are we talking about? We're talking about three categories. These are members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's sovereign constituent people to actually ensure the survival and protection of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croatia, of course, needs to support return and stay. Also improve relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina and support it in the Euro-Atlantic path. They are then members of the Croatian minority in the European countries. As far as the position of Croatian minorities is concerned, their status is different. There are bilateral agreements on protection of minorities Croatia has concluded with Italy, Serbia, Hungary, Montenegro, Macedonia, and on the Croatian side is showing interest in such agreements, of course, with other countries. The Croats then have Croats emigrants in the overseas and European states and their descendants, or diaspora. The Croatian diaspora is a large number. The world has gone forcibly for political or economic reasons. However, such knowledge also hides the danger of being completely assimilated in foreign states. It's already the second, third, fourth generation. Each country gives more or less attention to its diaspora. So look at our neighbours all in Slovenia there is a meaning State Administration for Slovenians outside Slovenia. In Serbia, there is a separate Serbian ministry in what they say is migration, etc. Therefore, each of these three groups of our Croats has specificities, and that is why access to them is different. I mentioned registers, data. I wonder if any research has been done for Croats outside Croatia? What do they need? Do we know what they need or is all part of what we hear? Someone's talking to each other, we've got contacts. The Republic of Croatia has its relationship with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia based on mutual cooperation, providing assistance, and strengthening their communities, while respecting all the specificities and different needs of Croatian communities outside the Republic of Croatia. In addition, the special goal declared by this Act is to connect all Croatians both those in the Republic of Croatia and outside the Republic of Croatia in achieving the Croatian Cultural Community as a set of all cultural, educational, scientific, informative, economic, sports and other social activities essential for the preservation and strengthening of Croatian identity and prosperity. The newspapers that are introduced by this law, which are proposed, are acceptable, and some I believe are romantic because they are not enforceable. Let's take it in a row. Decision declaring the day of the Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. There's a lot of us out there. We should be mentioned. But how do you mark it? Here is an example of the Italians of 150 parliamentarians coming to Parliament on that day. It's symbolic. And today we heard in the debates how many of ours are. There are Parliamentarians probably all over the world. Next, the award of recognition, special recognition to the responsible persons, associations and institutions for outstanding contribution to strengthening relations and cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Why not? Yeah. The Central Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia is established as the central body of the State Administration, etc. etc. But where will that body be? We don't understand the structure of that. How many people? State Secretary, then three deputies. It's at least eight people in that structure. Why don't we get this to the Foreign Ministry? And it's not even clear in the law. This secretary of state has large, has certain elements of the ambassador. They're not folkly told any more tambourines and I don't know what. That's, that's national interests. So I think we should write it a little bit more structured. But I keep saying that there is no structure so far and that there should be a body that will coordinate all these. The further proposal is advice as an advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which provides assistance to the Government in creating policy implementation, etc. There is Hungary, Serbia, but according to this proposal, I think it's too bulky, and we think it's a bulky body. It should be after this as the Council of Croats from the world. The debate within itself, however, as an advisory body, we think it is too massive. The Croatian Emigrant Queen remains the same as before. We know he has a tradition of debt. I don't think he's quite prepared the structure. It seems to me there's either overlapping or not enough structure in all of this. In addition, Matica Croatia should also turn to new emigrants within the European Union who have left for the past 10, 20 years. Next is the status of Croats without Croatian citizenship that can be obtained by Croats outside the Republic of Croatia without Croatian citizenship, spouses who do not have Croatian origin, their children born and adopted, and friends of the Croatian people and the Republic of Croatia who foster Croatian identity and promote Croatian cultural unity. This is partially acceptable, but it's romantic. And before that, we have suggested a special recognition for the dignitaries and the merits. We have another romantic idea. The Republic of Croatia, in cooperation with interested institutions and economic operators, introduces a Croatian card allowing Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia favourable access to certain services, more favourable terms of travel, organised stay, participation in cultural events. Is that really who you're gonna sign it with? I don't know if this is one of the unfulfilled things. So I'll call them a romantic idea. If we want to have the law, and we need it, then we can't have a declaration, and that's why there's a lot to be thrown out of, or structured in another way. In order to facilitate the integration process, it is further proposed – the welcoming office is established, so it writes what should be served. To provide information, etc. I don't see the purpose of special detachment, even that welcoming office. This law is considered to be an investment and it is important to make the legal relationship of Croats within the country towards Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, but I am sorry that it is perceived through the opening of another office, but I think I have been clear enough in this part before which it is. The structure certainly should have been, but the moral duty as an opposition is that we have to say and point out some things that are not right. This isn't politics, but I have to say it wasn't done properly. If we're serious about this, then we really can't accept some kind of time tea to pass this law. Let's not play with the very important thing that applies to this law. Therefore, the SDP is for law-making, but for better structure, for better efficiency in our efforts and at the end of our commitments. Therefore, we do not accept the time seal to pass this law. It's too serious. We started, and that's very good. Therefore, it is worth bringing because it has a national interest and beyond. I hope that with a lot of clarifications and changes, we will achieve a goal, and that is a consensus on this topic, because it is very important to all of us and no one has the right to do so. This document does not suffer overvote and should not be a basis for winning political points. Unfortunately, I have to point out here, we've heard very often from the diaspora, and we've been bringing bags and bags of money, and where has it ended? People are disappointed, and that is why we cannot symbolically regain their trust. Our task is to lead our country, to protect it, and ours and theirs, and that is our primary task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77700	Thank you. We've got corrections. First Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77701	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues of Šimac-Bonačić allow me one correction which is basically an explanation. So, so as not to repeat these mistakes again, there is no room for these mistakes. So there's no new welcome office. It's by the model that exists in the world of so-called. "Wellcome office" within the Central State Authority. We couldn't name it any other way down the welcome office or welcome room, etc. It's important for every single man to come and have certain enquiries, etc. He'll come to this central office, there'll be a person in charge who won't walk around the world then, I don't know the offices, the ministries, but will give him specific information. On the other hand, time narrow, no time narrow. This is the first reading, I support your decision to achieve the most consensus in the second reading, it's in two months and we can clear everything up and make everyone acceptable and beneficial for the whole nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77702	Thank you. Correction, Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77703	Well, here's two corrections to the incorrect quote. First of all, a colleague said no one should apply this law. Well, no one really cares about him, he's just trying to get a consensus, and like his colleague Bagaric said, we want the law to be acceptable to everyone in the second reading. So there's no bargaining. It's the first correction. The second correction is a romantic idea – no romantic idea this is not. This isn't any romance, this is reality. This law is prescribed from the legislation of other countries that have diaspora and therefore I think that, once it was romanticism to go to America, Mrs. Shimac-Bonačić, and today it's a reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77704	Thank you. On behalf of the motionary State Secretary, Mr. Mario Nobilo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77705	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a brief comment. I, of course, personally and as a proposer on behalf of the Government, would like, in the second reading, until the second reading, to achieve the broad consensus, it is well said here from all the club representatives. Namely, this is an important law and it reaches long-term into something which is one of the primary national strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia, which is to regulate the improvement of relations with Croats outside the country of origin. But a few clarifications that may help achieve this broader consensus. It's clear we can always say we're late, and it's never too late. I think that this distinguished Croatian Parliament has, in recent years, been very much engaged in the acquis communautaria, so with negotiations with the EU, now that this is over, we can do a little more calmly with laws that are not nominally organic, but are largely like the one that, in the long run as I said, reaches into a certain matter that needs to be regulated calmly now. Surely, one of the reasons for this law is that everywhere, especially in small nations, it lasts, it is constantly the assimilation, especially in the second, third generation. That's well-detected. The idea of this law is to establish some kind of relationship with those interested members of the Croatian people who may be from mixed marriages or are certainly loyal citizens of their countries, but they have this need for that Croatian identity, part of their being to point out, improve and we try to think modernly in a way that respects both Slovenia and Hungary, Italy and others in a way to establish an organic connection by various layers of that organic connection with them and find some common programs and interests. One of these might be those romantic ideas, but we look purely pragmatic. When we talk about, for example, that Croatian card can make it easier for these people to make certain discounts on tourist trips, stays, etc. We do not think that this is a burden of the budget, so the Croatian budget will compensate for this difference but we also think as you have for Mastercard privileges in certain hotels, in certain agencies that these commercial institutions will be interested in giving a discount to a large number of people who will have such a card and who will be interested in it. You know, from the emigrants you often hear, we'd like a direct line from Chicago, Toronto, Buenos Aires, and that's of course with the regulation of these things at interstate always a matter of commercial interest. With such measures we can find enough commercial interest that a large number of American Croats have an interest in coming to Croatia more often and then there is a commercial interest in any of our foreign companies to get direct lines towards Croatia finally established. It's the same with strangers. You have a number of foreigners who do not belong to the Croatian Corps, however, are interested, they cultivate Croatian culture, speak Croatian, I saw a show about foreign students who learn Croatian language this morning, there is no reason not to allow them to further improve Croatian economic cultural identity interest through such status, regardless of which few of them will not be directly related to Croatia but may be more convincing and efficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77706	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77707	Mr. President, once again welcome to you, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, and I welcome certainly up at Mr. Bruno Ilkic's gallery who is a successful businessman but a man who comes outside of politics and a man who has contributed greatly to the fact that we have this document here today, because he knows what life is and in a certain way develops a particular model of cooperation with the BIH and without some material interest, that he wastes time, but believes in this project. I welcome all such people and invite all of you to accept this law as our own and not to have any stratifications or accusations or objections, but to experience it as a national interest. I remember a text that was published on the subject of Australia where it was written around that it was not possible to stretch all the oceans and seas and pick up the precious stones of the crown to which it belonged. It is thought of our people living in Australia, and according to the model of Australia and all other states, but it is possible to build a system that will bring all these people closer to their homeland. On the other hand, international institutes increasingly publish scientific articles on the subject of diaspora and explain why diaspora, why emigration, why parts of peoples outside the country play such an important role in the global world. There are several reasons and of course there is no place to explain, however, it is simply now a trend. So, what the Irish in the world are playing for Ireland, Italians for Italy, French for France etc., it is finally time for Croatia to start playing with Croats outside Croatia and Croats outside Croatia. Therefore, on 5 May the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a strategy for the relations of the Republic of Croatia to Croats outside Croatia and now, on the basis of this strategy, the Law on Croats outside Croatia is passed. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I welcome this bill, we thank the government that we have this document. I also declare here on behalf of the HDZ Club, all Croats no matter where and what status they live, where they belong to an indivisible Croatian people. Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia have the same national identity and make up a unique cultural space. It must also not be resilient with anyone in the modern state of Croatia as a result of natural law, the will of the Croatian people achieved by democratic elections, defended in the country's war and joint efforts made by Croats living in Croatia and its citizens, as well as Croats outside Croatia. Let us not ask the question of how much this law costs and how much it would cost, and how much everything that the Croats outside Croatia have done for Croatia. The assembly in which we are sitting is also renovated by means of Croatian communities outside of Croatia, here is the inscription below the clock. The proposed laws on the relations of the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside Croatia and the Strategy are a set of political measures and relations between the Republic of Croatia towards Croats outside Croatia and this proposal is a statement of internal and foreign policy and constitutes a set of all diplomatic, economic, cultural, social, educational, information, organisational measures that they implement and will be implemented by the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. As such, as the Secretary of State said, an integral part of the strategic framework for the development of the Republic of Croatia and a national strategy for the sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia. It is also based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, on international contracts and rights stemming from UN documents, and there is no newspaper and other states have similar frameworks and we have not copied anyone's model, but we have normally studied everyone else, I am also saying that as a member of the working group working on this document. Normally, we studied everyone else, adapted to our needs, and did what we did. All this ahead of us sets new requirements among which is strengthening cooperation with Croats outside Croatia, so it is... effective relations. Everything drawn up in this law and everything that needs to be derived from it,... from the national interest and instrument in which the Republic of Croatia will in an effective and effective way achieve the objectives set. The law on Croats outside Croatia lays down the principles, goals, and activities of state policy towards Croats outside Croatia. Given the new circumstances and development objectives of Croatian society and the global economic movement and the new role of the state, the Republic of Croatia will, through law and strategy, achieve an effective relationship with Croats outside Croatia based on mutual and systematic support for the achievement of political, economic, cultural and cooperation interests and for the achievement of common interests. Since there are different communities in the world, with different needs and opportunities, there is no way of developing relationships with them in a unique way, but specifically respecting each and every one of them. This law is based on long-term development strategies that rest on faith in the possibility of major positive shifts whose foundation and driver are the human potentials of Croats and all citizens in Croatia and those in the world. The Republic of Croatia faces a problem of ageing population and negative natural growth. We need to learn a lot from the positive and negative experiences of many European countries with regard to the integration of immigrants and their descendants. It's just a new reality. It is therefore necessary to bring the immigration policy into line with the objectives of strategies and laws in order to ensure, above all, human resources in the return of Croatian emigrants. There were speeches here who would return to Croatia? We have e-mails from the United States of America from people who are highly educated who are increasingly talking about time, whatever time it was for leaving because of these and those reasons that talk about return times, talk about economic crises in the countries where they live. If Croatia is an interesting EU member tomorrow, we believe that it will want to come to others, so that it should not be interesting to the Croats who abandoned it for political and economic reasons. The HDZ Club actually based its views on the following: the law must be repeated by an integral part of the politics of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, then the law is based on the constitutional obligation we have already stated new conditions of globalisation, which includes a position for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia because they are part of the Croatian people and that every Croat community outside the Republic of Croatia has specific needs and opportunities and that the strategic definition of the foreign policy of the Republic will be to strengthen the existing and construction of new instruments for protection of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and to strengthen cooperation with Croatian institutions outside the Republic of Croatia and the governments of their domestic states. The mutual information strengthening links between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is a prerequisite for cultural economic and other cooperation and strengthening Croatian identity in the world. Therefore, the role of public media, Internet technologies is growing in the integration of Croatian Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. I ask the question, which is why the Croat can watch HRTV only if he pays the card to watch it I don't know in South America or anywhere in the world. So we need it to be important for the whole world to look at us, to give in different languages the program on HRTV and to certainly let it into the ether. Not that our people are watching in a world of other televisions that extends interest and cultural space. Therefore, in this law, it is actually written that HRTV will build such a programme. The primary objective of this law is not to attract the capital of evicted Croats but to achieve a positive atmosphere for their return and to support those who need help on their return. The basis of the action is to preserve the Croatian identity of Croatian emigrants regardless of the time and reason for their departure. According to this proposal, all institutions of the Republic of Croatia will put the issue of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia into their social and economic policy programmes. Who are these Croats outside the Republic of Croatia? So one large group of about 2 million Croats in the overseas countries where Croatian emigration and about 600,000 more Croatian emigrants are in European countries. Croatian emigration is all Croats who have moved from Croatian historical spaces to overseas countries and European countries and all their descendants. The emigration of Croats caused by severe economic and political conditions began in the mid-19th century and lasted throughout the 20th century. It's an eviction. The negative migration balance has contributed most to the unfavourable demographic situation in Croatia, which has long-term adverse consequences for the overall economy and the social situation in Croatia. Most Croats in the host countries have achieved prosperity and have contributed significantly to the progress and development of their new environment. They made a huge contribution to the defence of Croatia during the Homeland War. But there are Croats outside Croatia living today in the difficult economic and political conditions of the countries they have moved into. Therefore, like all Croats who have not successfully integrated, Croatia needs help. Someone here was talking about Ireland, so Ireland is doing a lot of work to help the Irish who are not standing well, and of course those who stand well will help themselves, and will also help Ireland. Croatian emigration and emigration of Croats are generally seen in the light of this bill as a two-way process. The return policy of Croats outside Croatia should be measures that will slow down or stop further eviction and speed up the return of emigrants. Namely, removing political and economic causes for which Croats have left their country should create conditions for voluntary and informed return of Croatian emigrants. Croatians who have acquired knowledge, skills and experience should be provided with conditions in the country of return. The interest of the Republic of Croatia is to cooperate and connect with all countries of the world, and especially with economically developed countries. Croatians living in these countries can play a very important role in this. Therefore, the interest of the Republic of Croatia is to cooperate with all institutions in the world and to support these institutions in order to promote Croatian language, culture, scientific and other cooperation. When it comes to Croats in European countries, therefore they are one segment of the Croatian diaspora, so they are about 600,000. Croatians in European countries are those who have moved to these countries, their descendants mostly have a residence in Croatia. They stay here occasionally with their families, work in European countries, and come on vacations, bring huge money. Imagine what signs come from the Croatian emigration to the Croatian state budget. Well, the estimate is that directly about $4 billion comes every year only at the expense of their findings, not to mention the indirect contribution. Who are the best tourists to come to Croatia? Well, the best ones are those who come from the world of our people, the Croats who come here in a certain way, gather their relatives, visit them, spend, live here. Then the second group of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia are a special group of indigenous minorities and are processed both in Article 6 in national minority status. These are Croats who live in neighbouring and other European countries in 12 of them and who in the long past for political, war and other reasons have emigrated from historical Croatian countries or have now become part of other countries for the same reasons. For the Croatian minority in European countries, it is sought and guaranteed by all those rights enjoyed by national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. So imagine the absurdity, Croats in Slovenia are not even recognised as a national minority. In the Republic of Serbia, they are recognised as a national minority and almost have no rights whatsoever. So, according to our point of view, we are not only playing football today with representatives of the Hungarian Parliament who come to visit us here, but also because our people say the model issue of Croats in Hungary has been resolved. Therefore, it is for Croatia to take care of each of them. And the third group is the one I come from, Croats in BiH. The Croatian people in BiH are a constitutive sovereign and equal people in BiH and a relatively pre-war number of their members of the Croatian people in BiH suffered the greatest casualties. Croatia is to ensure the full equality of Croats in BiH. It is also an interest in Croatia, it is an interest in BiH, it is an interest in the stability of this area, it is Europe's interest. What are the basic actions towards Croats outside Croatia? Well, we have already said, these are foreign policy, culture, science, education, economy, sport and demographics, and everything is processed in this bill. What are these goals? The goals are to provide all support to institutions and associations whose projects can benefit Croats outside Croatia. Ensure support for projects that will strengthen the economy and connect businessmen, provide protection and support to those Croats outside Croatia who have left their premises against their will, plan and encourage return, design and realise projects of recruiting returnees etc. Unfortunately, time really won't allow me to say everything I have to the end, so in a few sentences, I'm going to shorten that summary I have to say. This bill provides for the establishment of an operational body, the central body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's misinformation that's spreading how much it's going to cost, so much. It won't cost anything because there are spaces, there are people, and they'll be redesigned. In fact, the issue of Croats outside Croatia will be raised to a higher level, and more will be achieved from that level. When it comes to the Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there was a speech here about how huge a body is. So I say to someone perhaps, but as far as I'm concerned, it is indeed a body that does not make up a large number of representatives of Croats outside Croatia, if we imagine all the countries in the world where the Croats live. So they would meet once a year in Croatia, discuss issues of Croats outside Croatia and in some ways work on valorising and assessing politics towards Croats outside Croatia. Finally, a consensus on this issue is important, and on behalf of the HDZ Club, I ask all those who have made comments, let them give them up to a second reading to agree and to bring a common position on this issue. Thank you finally, and with this end, both the Prime Ministers and the Committee and the members of our Committee and the members of the committee and representatives of the Croatian Emigrants Queen and all of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77708	Thank you. At 10:18, it's been 10 minutes. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in an individual debate is Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77709	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today in the Parliament we are discussing in our first reading the Law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. For the first time in 20 years of Croatian independence, the Republic of Croatia regulates relations with its people living outside the border of the Republic of Croatia in a legal, democratic, one-word European way, as did most of the European countries that have this problem. Why is this law important? Because half of the Croatian people live outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, and all of us are the home state of the Republic of Croatia. This bill is discussed on the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia, supported by the committee and us from this committee, especially for us coming from the 11th constituency, it is very important that this law be adopted by the votes of all in this assembly, both left and right. And I ask you, colleagues and colleagues, to support this law. The Republic of Croatia has arranged relations with minorities in the Republic of Croatia and that is good. We often say that minorities are bridges that connect, and that's good, and here today we have a chance to expand these bridges by adopting this law. Representatives of the Croatian people in the world live in numerous countries, from Bosnia and Herzegovina where they have the status of a constituent and sovereign people, although this constitutionality is today I will dare say only the paper and representatives of the same people in Bosnia and Herzegovina are fighting for the equality of the Croatian people in the country. Representatives of Croatian peoples or members of Croatian peoples living in other countries who have national minority status in these countries, such as those of Croats in the duchy or in the Republic of Serbia, but many of their national rights are being violated, they are being divorced, written by rebels, shockers, only to be not Croats. Up to the national minority in Boka Kotorska i.e. in Montenegro, for which it is interesting that the Croatian language in Montenegro is an official language, but the Croatian national minority in Montenegro or in Boka cannot get one smallest 4X4 space where representatives of the minority could gather and how many Croatian cultural treasures lie in the same Boka. In some European countries, they should have the status of national minorities such as Slovenia, and they do not have our compatriots fighting for their status, and this home should help them get national minorities' status in Slovenia and the government has already taken some steps on this trail. That is why this law is a sort of bridge with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, as well as a bridge with the countries in which they live. Because of these bridges and cooperation with their citizens, I said we care about the law to support both left and right because it is important for Croatians in the world to receive a message that the entire Croatian Parliament and all Croatian institutions are taking care of them and thinking about them. This law, as we've already heard, should not be the subject of party bickering. In the first reading, there is plenty of time and space for its possible repairs and repairs to make the consensus in the adoption of this law important. Therefore, gentlemen on the left in the assembly, you have the opportunity to support this law, and what we have heard from the introduction and from Ms. Šimac-Bonačić's statement that the Social Democratic Party will support this law, I am pleased that by supporting this law in the same way, you are correcting in the best way the bar towards the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina because in the past elections, you have unfortunately supported your sister's Social Democratic Party, and we have told you that you are not doing this because the gentleman who runs the party in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the 20th and 21st centuries has not yet met with social democracy. And this project, which leads the aforementioned gentleman, is directly directed against Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as against Bosnia and Herzegovina, as is possible. Of course, you turned the story after the election and said that you were violating the Croatian people's voting will in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is true and which is true and that it is not good. Unfortunately, we don't have any of the things that you've matured in that attitude when our rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina are bowed down, and everything under the cloak is called social democracy. Therefore, I am glad that you will not make a mistake to that part of the Croatian people because these are our brothers, our sisters, our relatives, our best friends, our brides, and our sons-in-laws. This year was named Ruđer Boskovic. In memory of the 300th anniversary of Ruđer Boskovic's birth, he declared this House and it may be very good that this year we passed this law, because he too lived most of his life outside the country. About a month ago in Ravno, a beautiful monument was discovered in my place in eastern Herzegovina in honour of Ruđer Boskovic, the work of academic sculptor Ilija Skocibusic. You wonder what Ruđer Boskovic and Ravna have to do with this law? Well, there is, because Ruđer Boskovic's father was born Orah Nikola, born in Orah's Dol in the municipality of Ravna. And at the opening of that monument, I said something about how Nikola, by moving from the Ottoman Empire to free Dubrovnik, provided the conditions for his son Ruđer to be raised and educated from Dubrovnik to Italy and to achieve world glory. In science, so did St. Father mentions in his speech at the Croatian National Theatre. ... I was talking about a number of miners, Ivans, Ants who unfortunately didn't get a chance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's been 300 years and some will say that much has changed. It may be, but in Bosnia and Herzegovina, unfortunately today is not an equal chance society. That's where the fundamental human rights of the entire people are trampled. That is why we have no right to remain silent and close our eyes over the fate of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The desperate cry must also be heard by the Europe we are entering and changing the board, as this situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is unsustainable in the long term and is a source of permanent instability both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the neighbourhood. That's why we first need to help and encourage others to help change the situation, but for the better. The adoption of this law of course will not greatly change the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but there will also be messages to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina that they are not alone, that they are not left behind, that they are thought of by the European Croatia. And that message, even if it was symbolic, is reason enough to support this Law. Ruđer Boskovic, the most famous Croatian emigrant, also advocated his disreputed Croatian people in then-Europe. Let's just be a little Ruger. This law systematically regulates the relations of the Republic of Croatia to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and provides for the establishment of the Central State Office, the Council of Government, the introduction of Croatian status without Croatian citizenship, etc. etc. My time is running out. Other measures are also prescribed for immigration and return and cultural, scientific and economic co-operation with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is encouraged, i.e. with countries where they live. I will support the law as well as any good recommendations and suggestions to correct this proposal. It is also important to say that the media in the Republic of Croatia are truthfully but also affirmatively reporting on this subject, because this Law is above any party interest. He's an important national project, and that's the way to look at him. Presumptions are being made for the institutional arrangement of relations between the Croatian people and the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian people in the world and the foundation is being expanded through the Croatian card that the greater the number of people who love our beautiful one also have a sign of that Croatian card in their pocket. The adoption of this Act opens an important page in the preservation of Croatian cultural and national identity throughout the world. Since we live in a time of general globalisation, it is not bad for Croats to also go into national globalisation. Let this law be one first step on that path.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77710	Thank you very much. We also have one replica, Madame Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77711	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You have highlighted the message of this Law very well, as much as the Republic of Croatia thinks of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. You emphasized the injustice against Croats outside the Republic of Croatia where they are not recognised as a minority. Perhaps the Republic of Croatia would now be an example of how it treats minorities both in social and political life. However, what might be even more, you may not have been able to emphasize that is the role of the media. And that is why it is very good for the office to establish an administrative and communication network, that it is also of public interest to form an open international multimedia programme with multilingual television and radio programmes. And it may take us more shows about Croats outside of Croatia, because that show, which is on Saturday and which only takes 15 minutes, is very little for our people, let alone for people outside Croatia. That is why it is very important to highlight what is being passed by this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77712	Thank you. Answer Mr Dragan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77713	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Mrs. Caparin, you've noticed very well. The role of the media, of course, in today’s world is very important. It is very important that the national media also treat the people living in both the Republic of Croatia and the one living outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. That would be a lot to talk about. But we don't want to talk about these bad sides and how the media does it. We're going to invite them to an affirmative approach on this matter, and we're going to invite them to try and talk to the public in a way that sees the good side of the law and the good moves that are being drawn in that sense. I hope that behind us is the time when a certain part of the people through the media is here to help me tell you, Satanized where a nicer word will already Satanize and I haven't found in the last two months that we from Bosnia and Herzegovina Croats are to blame for the earthquake in Japan. Otherwise, we were guilty of everything else in some of the media in Croatia that showed such black things. I hope that this time is behind us and that the attitude towards, especially the Croats in BiH who today are very difficult to change and things will go better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77714	Thank you. There's still an individual debate. Mr. Representative Rade Bosnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77715	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the proposal of the Law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, proposed by the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to start by saying that I will support the adoption of this law that Croats outside the Republic of Croatia have long expected, which will meet their expectations, and the Republic of Croatia will achieve its strategic interest with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, especially with Croats in BiH as a sovereign and constitutional people in BiH. The government of the Republic of Croatia reached a conclusion at a session held on 5 May this year that adopted a strategy in relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The same conclusion was made by the Government to propose the adoption of the Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia as well as the obligation to coordinate the structure and work of the bodies of the State Administration and the Croatian Emigrants Queen. The strategy and the Law on Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia are a framework and content which will be regulated by the Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia as a whole. The Law on Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia defines the obligations of the Republic of Croatia towards the Croatian people in BiH in terms of helping to achieve the full and real equality of the Croatian people in BiH as a constituent people with two other peoples in BiH, as well as to assist institutions and institutions of scientific, educational, health, cultural, economic and sports importance for the Croatian people in BiH. Croatians enter a new phase in the diaspora, in the phase of dying, the disappearances of generations that maintained the relationship with the Homeland of the Republic of Croatia and gathered Croats in countries where they live, fostering and preserving their national identity. This is already the time in which Croatian parishes built in the 1960s are closing on some continents. This law should achieve a greater and more comprehensive closeness between Croats of younger generations in emigration with the Republic of Croatia and thus continue to preserve the national identity of living and coming generations. On the other hand, Croats as a national minority fail to obtain the status of national minorities or to exercise other rights that arise in some countries regardless of their number. These facts point to the necessity of building a new, comprehensive relationship of the Republic of Croatia towards younger Croatian generations in the diaspora, the second, third and fourth generations that would be lost in such circumstances very quickly in 10, 20 years. This Law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the country will prevent this from happening, and Croats in countries where they fail to obtain the status of national minorities or to exercise rights that stem from national minority status such as in the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Serbia, Montenegro and other countries in which the situation of the Republic of Montenegro has to help achieve a decent position. I would especially like to address the issue of the Croatian people in BiH, which has made it impossible by two more numerous peoples in BiH to exercise the right that stems from the status of Croatia's constitutionality in BiH. Many are the causes of Croatia's inequality in BiH. First of all, the Dayton Constitution for BiH is a key cause of Croatian inequality. Of course, it stems from the structure of Anexa 4. It is founded on Croatian inequality. Furthermore, Annex 4 is so important that it is often misrepresented with the Dayton Peace Agreement, which is only one small part. So, Annex 4, the Constitution of BiH with a total of 12 articles. But he was given up a long time ago by those who made him for us. In fact, even those who were his only interpreters were zealous performers and uncircumcised guardians. This is only one but too important example that is clearly talking about the disenfranchisement of the Croatian people as a constituent forming people in BiH. Following last year's October general elections in BiH, the most brutal form of majorisation, marginalisation and the end of preventing participation in Croatian parties' authorities, the two Croatian democratic communities that received 90% support in the elections for the Croatian electoral body in BiH. In addition to this, the fact that a government was established in the Federation of BiH is an anti-constitutional way for legitimate Croatian representatives to be excluded from participation in the government. The anti-constitutional assembly of the Federation of BiH government was carried out with the support of the high representative for BiH, Mr. Valentin Ick. In the same way, an anti-constitutional and illegal way, the government was established in the Central Bosnian County, in which again Croatian legitimate representatives are excluded from participation in government, and the BiH Council of Ministers has not yet been established, but is not yet aware of when it will be. The Republic of Croatia, relying on the constitutional commitment towards the Croatian people in BiH and its strategic interest, cannot see the harshest disenfranchisement of Croats as a constituent people in BiH with the ultimate intentions of deconstitution and translation into the national minority, but should use all its influence to help prevent these and such efforts wherever such intentions come from. BiH Croats rightly expect the understanding and support of the Republic of Croatia in its quest to achieve an equal position with the other two peoples in BiH. And this law directs the Republic of Croatia to fulfil the constitutional obligation towards Croats in the BIH. The upcoming constitutional changes in the BIH are an opportunity to correct the Dayton injustices against the Croats in the BIH, and every signator of this agreement, and so the Republic of Croatia has the right to execute a breakdown of its current implementation and to indicate in which direction new solutions must and may go, whilst advocating for the full political, cultural, religious and any other equality of Croats with the other two nations cannot be treated as a god-awful mix of the domestic affairs of another country. Because the issue of the constitutional and real equality of the Croatian people in the BIH is the issue of all issues, the question of survival and the question of the future of Croats in the BiH. A very important segment of relations that is in addition to the fact that Croatia has a constitutional obligation... Croatian people in other countries, guaranteeing special care and protection is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia to have, cherish, develop good neighbourly and friendly relations with the BIH. Among the many reasons also because of the fact that the Republic of Croatia has a significant export market in BIH, which is mainly in the areas where Croats live. The strategic and economic interest of the Republic of Croatia is to invest in the preservation and expansion of that market, however, Croats in BIH expect from the Republic of Croatia investment and in production capacities, especially energy based on mutual mutual interest. The current investment in the BIH refers only to trade, banking and insurance companies for which the BIH and the Croatian people in the BIH have little or no use. This Law refers to the recognition and achievement of common interests through the promotion of development projects, with the aim of hiring returnees and immigrants, and to helping to achieve the conditions for the creation of new jobs in the BIH especially in the areas where Croats live and, above all, in areas where there are no conditions for the sustainable return of exiled, displaced and refugee Croats from the BIH. Informing is a very important segment in creating and maintaining relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. ... should be professional and thus objective, timely and comprehensive and in the context of this Law and mutual, two-way information. The fact is that the information of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia about events and conditions in Croatia is good, but that the information of the Croatian public in the Republic of Croatia about the events and conditions of Croats in relation to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is bad, however, much more important and this should change with the application of this Act. Overall, information in this direction is improbable, and often unobstructed. Croatian radio has several very good shows dealing with information about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, but that is not enough. The Croatian TV programme is very scarce in this regard and needs to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77716	Thank you, we have replicas. First Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77717	Dear colleagues, you spoke of majorization, unconstitutionalness, inequality, Croatian peoples in BIH, so there should have been such trampling, the rights of one nation's people, who were building in the BiH to finally and all in Croatia see and to start to change their minds and support the rights of the Croatian people. When I was a member of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities in the previous meeting on a financial report from which the Croatian state was well seen and in how much care they have for their national minorities, then I asked them to give me information on how much they care for Croats outside of Croatia and on the premises of the former Yugoslavia. The data they presented was defeated. Croats outside Croatia have not received a single lip anywhere and some have not even recognised it as a national minority. That I naively believed that in this Committee on Human Rights we could turn something around, change, demand that the Croatian Parliament behave reciprocally, so those who respect Croatia's national minority, who have the right, that Croats in those countries who have the right to and those minorities in Croatia have such rights. Unfortunately, the answer was that we cannot be at their level, we are far ahead of them, we must be an example and today we see how and how the rights of Croats are protected as a constituent nation in a neighbouring country, and in that sense I think that this Parliament and this government should work much more to protect the rights of the Croatian people in Bosnia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77718	Thank you, we have Mr. Rade Bosnjak's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77719	I thank my colleague Rebic for his replication and thinking. In fact, I would say that the relationship between the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina as constitutive, in terms of real achievement of the full and real equality of the Croatian people in the BIH, is a paradigm, the relationship of the Republic of Croatia to all Croats living outside the country, but also relations with themselves but relations with internal politics when it comes to the Croatian people. I believe that Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina are of the primary strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia itself and, of course, for the Croatian people themselves in this context. Of course, I also agree with you that this reciprocity in relations with national minorities, the Republic of Croatia must represent stronger, stronger, more comprehensive, more concrete when it comes to the Croatian national minorities already mentioned in the Republic of Slovenia where they cannot achieve that status at all, in the Republic of Serbia where they have no rights, Montenegro etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77720	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Agent Ivan Skaričić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77721	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Bosniaks, I couldn't agree more with you. Any interest in Croatian politics, any Croatian policies of the Croatian state must be to preserve the consistency of Croats in BiH. Every emigration of Croats from BiH is Croatia's tax. The Croats are the historic people in BiH and must remain that way. However, the fact that the 1990s war changed that picture and the question of how much work is being done for the Croats to return here to Croatia and BiH. I was in Banja Luka two weeks ago by Bishop Komarica in a delegation in Split-Dalmatia County and the picture is quite devastating, difficult and sad. Very few Croats have returned, very few Croats are now in BiH. There were two ministers, Ministers and Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and what we could tell them was that their interest when representing Croats was to return to BiH. It's on the other hand that the state should take care of it. On the other hand, they are economically in a very difficult position, as Caritas of the Banja Luka diocese is the main employer for Croatians. So it's clear what it's about. However, Sir Trapist I was on a farm there in Mahovljani, the wine he produces, cannot be found believing or not his placement and struggling to place him in Croatia. This should now be heard by our big business owners of the trade chains to make it easier for these people to get paid. They're not asking for anything but the conditions that others have. However, they also have problems. So everyone through the institutions of the state through these economic circles in Croatia must really do a little bit of work and help people because it is the strategic interest of the Croatian state and every Croatian policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77722	Thank you. Mr. Rade Bosnjak's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77723	Thank you. I thank you for the replica of my colleague Scissor. First, what I said in my presentation about the return of Croats to BiH, or the intentions of those who want to deconstitute and translate into a national minority, all do is that the return of Croats to BiH to their homes, to their hearths, would not be feasible and easily throughout all that time to bring us right where these circles, these centres of power with such intentions are trying to do so. Therefore, it is very important here to say that we are from the area of Republika Srpska has been exiled, more than 120 thousand people who have not returned, and which, of course, at least 80% of them want it. But unfortunately, there are no conditions for that. On the other hand, this is the real question that we all need to focus on. The Republic of Croatia in terms of assistance, but we in BiH in terms of meeting the conditions. Without help, the Republic of Croatia will definitely not be able to achieve this return. On the other hand, if we can't do so much, and if we really step in this direction, the migration will be further encouraged, they will continue to get more and more intensity and that will be what I'm afraid will be fatal for the Croatian people in BiH. but I do not want to tell only the Croatian people, but also BiH, because BiH without one constituent people, regardless of whether this is as few as possible as a state.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77724	Thank you. And another replica of Mrs. Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77725	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You spoke very well when you said about the importance of this law and in economic terms in international relations between the Republic of Croatia and other countries and the status of national minorities and the consistency of the Croatian people in BiH. This law is indeed a legislative framework for Croatia's relationship with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which highlights that Croats in BiH are a constituent people and in other countries are a national minority. However, what sort of saddens me to say as one country as the Republic of Slovenia, which is in the EU, refers to the Croats and does not recognise them as a national minority. In fact, the Croats in Slovenia have more than Slovenians in the Republic of Croatia. However, when you look recently I traveled to Plehan through our Posavino and then it is sad and sad to see those places where the Croats lived are now in the shingles, the houses are destroyed and there is no one around, and it gives a sad impression that the Croats lived there. And I am right now appealing for a consensus to be reached in this House. The law goes into two readings and the second reading can accept some remarks from a colleague who spoke on behalf of the SDP, but I do appeal to all MPs that in the end this law in the Croatian Parliament will pass unanimously with one consensus because it is indeed in the interest of all of us who are in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77726	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77727	Thank you. I thank my colleagues Caparin. In addition to what we have already mentioned here, I believe that this is an absolutely real issue that we should deal with and should pay particular attention to, and that is the reciprocity of the relationship between the Republic of Croatia and the national minorities that we all have in Croatia and that is what we are all proud of in the end. But we should also seek and do therefore with all our influence with full capacity that the Republic of Croatia has that same or similar status can be achieved by the Croatian national minority in Slovenia, Montenegro, Serbia and, of course, in other countries where this is not possible. I'm glad you mentioned and raised the issue of the economy in terms of exchange with BiH. So this is really one of the important issues that I think first of all about the Republic of Croatia, but also for the Croatian people in BiH as well as through which a question should and can deepen a good neighbourly, real, quality relationship with Bosnia and Herzegovina which, for a number of reasons, really should be achieved as such in the most honest, best sense. This will be the biggest aid to the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The fact is that there is a lot of space and opportunities to design joint projects of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would say, along the whole border, which is not small at all. On the other hand, especially when I was talking about the energy sector, then it's mostly the southern part that offers really so much opportunity and space. I am convinced that the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina will take advantage of these opportunities. Further to what I would like to say here that Croatia acquires the status of a member of the European Union...bosnjak, ra
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77728	Time, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77729	There will be a special opportunity and opportunity for all these interests to be expressed and brought to life in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77730	Thank you, Representative Bosnjak. The next one's coming up for a debate with counsel Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77731	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs and respected secretary of state. I'm glad we're discussing today in the sense that this law should be passed by consensus. I hope that the time has passed when the subject of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia has only been politicized and many have been drilling in the chest for their protection, and in fact these people who have really, in the large majority of cases, very honest relations with our country and who live outside in difficult conditions have been manipulated many times by some in the Republic of Croatia. However, as for these individual discussions that preceded me, I have not heard a single debate that has entered into the essence of this law, which discusses the institutes that this law speaks of and we do not act as legislators. We have to pass the law, we do not talk about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in general. In this first reading, this law brings forth a series of very many, I would say bizarre institutes which do not list clear criteria, which are at least questionable and which in this first reading need to be very, very much worked out in order for him to, forgive the expression, to be exceeded and to fulfill his function as declared, which is to promote relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. We have all called upon these articles of the Constitution, article 10, which proclaims our concern in the country after our emigrants, but this law does not, in my opinion, solve this whole issue. In addition, the law comes at a bad time, so are we all aware of it as if I have a feeling from this first draft that it does not want to be brought into another reading. Like I said, there are a lot of bizarre, trendy and non-serious institutes, and even some anti-constitutional parts, so I'd like to say anything particular. I would also like to say as a member of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia that we have always tried to work on the principle of consensus in four years of our work or something less, and thanks to you, Mr. Bagarić, as the correct chairman of the board, we have always tried to work on the principle of consensus, and we have always done so more or less in the work of our committee. Many of the Croats from the eviction visited us, we heard these stories, we were all under the impression of it. However, we cannot talk about it under emotion because we are passing a law that will affect our normative system. The system is now dysfunctional, fragmented and not meaningful and I personally agree that the central office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia should also be established. I don't mind the government's advice. The Council of the Government is, as defined by the law, too massive and does not define exactly the criteria of the people entering that council. That's pretty flexible writing and doubtful. In addition, the central office that would be set up correctly is to say that there would be no new employment because people from the Foreign Ministry would be transferred to that office and from other of these ministries that work with emigration. However, it is not clear to me what function the Croatian Emigrant Queen will then have and why it exists when it is a complete duplication of functions. The Croatian queen of emigrants is deeply politicised and she has not performed her post. I think it's very, very redefined, and I'm not going to say it's a hard word because it has both a deep and old tradition, not just since the '90s, but it really needs to be done not to duplicate structures. The other thing, one of these bizarre institutes is the Croatian Institute without Croatian citizenship for acquiring whose status is not defined by this law by any single criterion but would be the discretionary right of the secretary of state to run this office. On the basis of which this officer will determine whether this man or woman who arrive and declare themselves Croatian, which is why he will decide well, you will get the status of Croats without citizenship, you will not. Is it written on his forehead or is it going to count the genetic code and the blood cells? It should stand in this law, at least some minimum criterion for it. In addition, this proposal says that people who bear the status of Croats without Croatian citizenship will not be treated as foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. Does that mean they're not subject to the Foreign Law? But then they are not subject to the Foreign Law or the Citizenship Act. They're neither, they can't be, they can't be in the vacuum. So a whole series of benefits are prescribed for people who have this status which are at least questionable because promoting employment rights and education should firstly be made possible for people living in the Republic of Croatia, and only then, eventually, for emigrants who return to returnees or secondary ones, but primarily for us who live in the Republic of Croatia and citizens and citizens of our country. Besides, the thing that I'm going to say the most like this is "indulgent" is this creatia card or what you called a Croatian card that reminds me of these Konzums plus credit cards that then give you the right to some discounts, cultural events and collecting points and tourist trips. That's unserious. What cards, who has the right to do that. It's really an institute that I think needs to be kicked out of this law or very, very strictly defined, which it implies exactly and what are the criteria for getting that card. I understand the intensity of this status of Croats without citizenship and this creatia card because there are many of our Croats who live in countries where double citizenship rights are not possible and then for their own personal reasons they opted for the citizenship of the country where they reside permanently, and they gave up Croatian citizenship. Then they would be given this status to compensate for their inability to have dual citizenship. But then our dear Croats either come to the Republic of Croatia or live in that foreign country as Croatian citizens. And that's also possible. This can't be some kind of replacement or some B-class citizenship. The law is very general. Even certain provisions mention certain criteria. One criterion writes as needed. What's that if you need it? Who's going to decide who's going to help if they need help. That should be defined by law. And another thing that sticks in the eyes is Article 31, which is equatively anti-constitutional because it is ordered by the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia to do something, to invite someone or to do something. This is exclusively for the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to determine what the Assembly Committee may do or may not do. But we forget that we are parliamentary democracy and that parliament is a legislator and that Parliament cannot impose what its committee does or does not do. I fear that when all these things are removed from this Law, I agree that we can set up a day of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, so that we can give the merits of the emigrants a state reward. These are all symbolic things I don't mind. However, when these other institutes and these poorly defined things are removed, very few articles remain to be seriously worked on in the second reading. I won't say here, in front of the club we pleaded as if we could support in the first reading of this bill. But I urge you to really do very, very serious work on the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77732	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote and two replicas. First correction by MP Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77733	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I'm sure it's a lapus. But it wouldn't be a good message if she left the Croatian Parliament in a sentence where you said something I'm sure you didn't think. You said whether it was a woman or a man. Of course, it's clear that a woman is human and that we think so. But I do have to react to such a statement that someone doesn't think that we MPs talk and think that way. So, extremely well-intentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77734	Thank you, MP Adlesic, although it is definitely a lapus. It is not appropriate to warn those who have not heard that it is the wrong speech. Next is the replica representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77735	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Although I might be able to correct your lapus, too. It was also a lapus, when you said the lapus. So, esteemed colleagues of Tanja Vrbat are not this law bizarre, it's not. He's not unsuspecting, he's not that, and you know it. Because you haven't explained anything that's bizarre. Here we go in a row. So you encouraged me to this replica. I accept the government's advice immediately that it is great, but of these people who are from Croatia. So outside Croatia is not... Because as many inhabitants are in Croatia outside of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I guess we can gather 50 people who will meet once a year to discuss Croatian issues outside Croatia. I think that's okay. However, counsel can invite whoever it wants to attend its session. Therefore, I personally agree that all these institutions that are listed may be shortened. So it's not bizarre, it's just to cut it short. When it comes to the central office of the Croatians outside of Croatia and Croatia, the Emigrant Mother, when you read the law carefully, you will see that the functioning of the Croatian Emigrant Queen will be arranged by adopting a special, that is, the Law on the Croatian Emigrants Queen who will comply with this Central State Office. I am also telling you as president of the Governing Council of the Croatian Emigrants, and I promise that we will coordinate it and that there will be no overlapping or bizarre. A Croat without citizenship is at least bizarre. Why? Because you yourself said that there are Croats in the world who cannot and Croatian citizenship. These people, when they come to Croatia here, for example in Germany who live and have German citizenship, have made it nice to say that they are according to the provisions of the current Law on the Croatian Foreigner. We simply want to introduce status so that this person is not treated in the Croatian party and therefore, and you are still in Macedonia I'm sorry, so don't interrupt me. [[Invader Antunović: Time!]] I mean stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77736	You're out of time, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77737	Thank you very much. And you answer what I didn't answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77738	The answer to the line of MPs will be Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77739	Thank you. My colleague Bagarić, I understand your emotional involving in the making of this Law and all this together and we have talked about it many times. However, the law is really like law, like text, as articles takes a lot, a lot. We'll make it right, yes, but there's a lot to be done, a lot to fix. And another line from me, my judgment is that the bizarre institutes are this welcoming office. So how can a law call something like that welcome office? So it looks like a travel agency that someone came to the info counter and asked for tourist information, gets discounts for. It needs to be more serious. ... I know what you mean and what's prescribed. [[/Invading Bagarić, you don't understand.]] But it needs to be defined more seriously, much more seriously.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77740	We have another replica of Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77741	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The fellow welcome office is probably an office where it will be promised to our emigrant from the diaspora that he will not be taken 10% if he wants to invest something in the Republic of Croatia. And as for what you said about the declaration of commitment for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, then there are many examples of this declarative commitment. In fact, today there were words that 120,000 Croats from the so-called Republika Srpska moved out. What happened in that? Well, it all seemed so they wouldn't come back. Mrs. Caparin, how many Croats have returned to the Bosnian Ship and Dervent? That's what you tell me if you know. And what did you do to get them back? You did everything you could to stay here or to be somewhere else. Furthermore, the area of Jajca, Mrkonjic town, Skender Vakuf and all the various vacuums have 5 in BiH, from the top, lower,... etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's there to do? How far did she get, if you like, to rebuild her house in the Middle Bosnian Canton? Or Middle Bosnian County? Ten years, 12 years, people are waiting for that. And that's why some get very fast solutions and renovations. But only some and that chosen. And while you're talking about it, the fact that here in the Croatian Parliament there are representatives from the diaspora who are from the two parties HDZ in the 1990s and HDZ. Yes, there are two parties. You've divided the Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77742	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77743	We lost the cities of Eggs, Mostar, and I don't know about your policy in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77744	Comrade Grubishic, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77745	That kind of policy. And it's hypocritical and declarative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77746	Comrade Grubisic, your time is up. Finish your discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77747	You see who the mayor of Eggs is, and the Croats are in the majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77748	Thank you. ... Without being thrown out of the bench, the debate is going on and everyone has the right to answer and discuss. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A colleague named Bagaric reported on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77749	Thank you. Article 209 has been injured. You, without any need, colleague Grubisic, attacked my colleague Caparin and us as to why the Croats are not returning to Posavina, just a little bit, like us.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77750	What are you talking about here?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77751	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77752	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, don't argue with a debate that you disagree with.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77753	So, he injured the Rules of Procedure is not the reason the Croats in Posavino
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77754	It's not a fellow breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77755	It's the Republika Srpska that's not Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77756	Dude, don't act... I'm asking you nicely... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Your behavior... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] My colleagues and colleagues, in this hall you all show great concern and care for Croats outside Croatia by discussing them, each in your own way. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Your quarrels with each other will certainly not contribute to the confidence of people living outside Croatia who want to improve their relations. I beg you to be, suggest, oppose your opinions, but don't argue. ... We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Vukic. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77757	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr Grubisic injured Rule 209 and I think he hurt some more articles and even the Constitution. The gentleman said we split up there into two parties just as if it were forbidden. In the '90s, thank God the dear was introduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77758	My colleague, the Rules of Procedure define how to speak, report on a subject or beyond the subject. My colleague debated and expressed his opinion, thank you for your warning, but I think it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure but about the different thoughts of you and your colleagues. Report for discussion, replicate, and this is not a matter of injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77759	The Rules of Procedure have been injured because a man advocates a unilateral system.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77760	Thank you very much. Let's be correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77761	I stand for the Croats and nothing else. I don't need your system multi-party and two parties in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77762	Comrade Grubisic, you'll still get your word, you signed up in the end. I'm asking you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77763	Excuse me. I'm sorry, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77764	We also have before the next representative gets his word, forgive my colleagues, a response to the replica of Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77765	Thank you very much. Here, I'm up. Well, it is my colleague Grubisic who points to what you point to the position of the Croats in BiH that I believe we all agree here that he is difficult and that he may not be even fair and that he needs to be redefined, but this is not the subject of this law. This is possibly one-third of the topic. This debate should not be channeled towards Bosnia. It's about the Istrians in New York, and I don't know about some in Boston, it's not just the Croats in BiH. Let's look at a wide picture of people who can contribute to the development of the Republic of Croatia. And I agree with you when you initially said on behalf of the club that someone was washing their dirty conscience from the '90s by introducing various days and giving some cards that wouldn't solve this problem that Croats outside the country have or will contribute to the common goal of mutual progress. And please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure to replicate. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77766	My colleagues, once again, I appeal to the institutions of orderly business reporting, replication. Stick to it and it will be easier for everyone here to work, and believe that you will send a more positive message to Croats outside Croatia. Next up for debate, MP Ivo Andric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77767	Dear Madam Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There is a saying in the people saying, "Who is waiting and welcoming?" Namely, this proposal of the Law on Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia after 21 years of Croatian independence and independence has finally come into the parliamentary bench and is discussed with great satisfaction by all Croats both outside the Republic of Croatia and I am convinced of the satisfaction of all other Croatian citizens. The obligation of the Republic of Croatia has been established by the Constitution and its Article 10 has been translated into this proposal for a good part of the law. This law also protects the rights and interests of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia as well as guarantees the care and protection of Croatian people in other countries. So this law and Article 10. The Republic of Croatia is in full agreement. At its meeting on 5 May 2011, the Government of the Republic of Croatia reached a conclusion that adopted the Strategy on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, under which the obligation to adopt a special law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, as well as the obligation to adapt the structure of the State Administration and the Croatian Emigrants Queen. So far, there has been no unique solution that regulated these relations but has been partially resolved by individual institutions and ministries, which has proved to be inefficient and ineffective. The existing institutional solutions failed to respond to their tasks, failed in a good way to monitor the needs and address the problems imposed as priorities by Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, there was no special body that would coordinate the work of all state institutions that care about the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. This law permanently determines and regulates the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The government proposal that I personally appreciate is an important document shows the intention of strengthening and protecting Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Article 2 of this Act divides Croats outside the Republic of Croatia into two groups. The first group is made up of members of the sovereign and constitutive people in BIH at least because the documents are written, but unfortunately the situation on the ground is quite different and I am deeply convinced that the Republic of Croatia as a future member of the European Union and as a co-signator of the Dayton Peace Agreement in the coming period will do everything to ensure that this consistency remains not only paper but that it remains real. The second group consists of members of the Croatian minority in the European countries and the third Croat emigrants in the overseas and European countries and their descendants. What should be stressed is that this law establishes a central state office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia as the central body of the state administration responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The office will have a wide range of its work and, most importantly, it will not overlap with any institution or ministry. The law also provides for the establishment of government advice for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The establishment of advice is therefore personally supported and supported by the form of organisation but I express my doubts about the effectiveness of this body since it will count close to 70 members. I hope that the Proposer will respect this remark which is well-intentioned and reduce the number of members of the council to some understandable measure and all with a view to making it work as best and efficient as possible. Now, while I'm at it, here's to a little bit of a problem with article 36 of the proposed article. Article 36 is quoted as saying: "According to the law on Croatian citizenship, it will speed up and facilitate the reception into Croatian citizenship of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia by respecting and credible documentation confirming the declaration of membership to the Croatian people". We all know what credible documentation is and that otherwise there is no, the only credible documentation is the way into crime and counterfeiting. One good part of the Croats is impossible to obtain, it is simply impossible to prove that they are who they are because they cannot obtain a document that shows that they or one of their own have pleaded as Croats. In fact, in the part of the BIH from 74 to 91, there was no section of nationality in the documents issued so that it was almost impossible to prove to those persons born during that period who they were. We need to know that it is about ethnic Croats and this or the Law on Citizenship that they need to be allowed to gain citizenship. What is important in this law is that it will take care not only of the preservation of the cultural and historical identity of Croats not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina and around the world but also will be able to target both Croatians and Croats around the world. The proposed solution provides for the financing of micro-credit programmes, family economies, and the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship lending. For development projects, it is reportedly all in collaboration with associations and economic operators both in BiH and abroad. So far, the assistance that went to the Croats in BIH has been exposed to very often unfair criticism even though it was transparent and small and insufficient. It was mainly about cultural activities, and what meant the stay and survival of Croats in the BiH above all, employment and job creation were put on the other side. Croatian businessmen and Croats can benefit from this mutual benefit, above all, in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croatians from the BIH can also profit from Croatia's entry into the European Union. As a member of the European Union, Croatia will have an obligation to promote cross-border cooperation and thus also Croatians in the BIH. With its own projects and assistance in running for European Union funds, great opportunities are being created for Croatians in the BIH. This law reaffirms the determination of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to resolve the status of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia as well as the association of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia with Croats in the Republic of Croatia, and prescribes that they are part of a unique and indivisible Croatian people. In all advance terms, I will support the proposal to adopt the Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77768	Thank you very much. We've got two replicas reported. The first one is representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77769	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I speak to my colleagues in relation to what he said that this Law could be a good start or an incentive for certain economic cooperation, both relevant for the economy of the neighbouring Republic and for the economy of Croatia. I would just like to emphasise that the economy that is happening in the contact areas of the border that we are talking about, especially if I were to say from Neum to Dubrovnik, that everything that can happen in Vrgorac or the rich Pop field, is important for the economy of these areas, but then it is very important for the people who live in these areas. So, all that happens about the contact areas between Croatia and the BiH in the areas where Croats live are projects for which the Government of the Republic of Croatia should express special concern and special incentives for such economic projects to be achieved, because I think they solve the problem that tries to solve with this law and in fact all refers to the economic conditions and purpose of survival in one space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77770	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77771	... Of course, economic co-operation between the Republic of Croatia and BiH was immediately established shortly after the end of the war in BiH. I personally believe that it is insufficient and that Croatia has invested and invested in the BiH economy and had the opportunity to do so. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] That the economy of the Republic of Croatia has entered BiH, I can personally testify. Unfortunately, once in an earlier debate, I had the opportunity to talk about that Croatian economy, here in particular, in my area from which I come from Tuzla and from the Tuzla region very often employ in their companies of Bosniaks and even Serbs and Croats who expect work and whose job would mean staying and surviving in that area very often remain without that much desired and so much needed work. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77772	Thank you very much. Next replica, representative Mato Bilnjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77773	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In fact, you told a colleague that Croats are a constituent people in BiH, unfortunately what can be seen on the ground that Croats in BiH have won elections but still cannot manage cannot share power in BiH and thus help the Croats living in BiH. There was talk here today, and you said money, so let me get this straight. BiH Croats don't need money, it's a rich nation, it's a people who earned their money from Austria, Germany, Switzerland and other places in Croatia today from Bosnia and Herzegovina among the richest entrepreneurs working in Slavonska Brod, Zagreb, Rijeka, have their own companies in thousands of people but should help not in this sense give people money, but to return to rebuild their family homes in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What has been torn down, churches, schools, homes and their houses, those people who have no money from BiH are proud people and certainly if they want to go back there, they will build for themselves who have. In the Republic of Croatia, we built all the destroyed houses that we did not crash in the Republic of Serbia in the so-called Republic of Serbia. No house was given for any house to rebuild the Croats there to return to. Once again, I repeat, these people don't need any charity, they're watching this, they're listening to this, they're long ago, until Tito's out, when my dad ran out, went and earned money and today they have and not only to feed their families but many families through workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77774	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77775	You're right, Mr. Biljic, the Croats in BiH need financial assistance the least. They do not wait for it from the Republic of Croatia but expect the Republic of Croatia as co-signator of the Deion Peace Agreement and as future EU member of the EU to assist Croats in making a new constitution so that Croats in BiH come out as one of the bishops of Bosnia and Herzegovina said from a crazy shirt called the Deton Agreement and the Constitution of BiH. The other thing that the Croatian people in BiH need is for Croatia to stand behind them to build a quality electoral law in BiH and thus prevent these political games and malversions, or majorisation of the Croatian people in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77776	Thank you very much. It is time for MP Vedran Rosic, your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77777	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. After 20 years of forming an independent Croatian state that has changed its size over the centuries, state arrangements are finally passed a law that regulates all relations with numerous members of the Croatian people, as well as with members of the sovereign and constituent Croatian people in BiH, members of the Croatian minority in European countries and Croatian emigrants in the overseas and European countries and their descendants. Croatians are one of Europe's largest eviction groups. It was said here before in the debate that when we discuss this topic, we should not involve emotions. I still think this is one law that requires a lot of emotion. Because if it hadn't been for these emotions towards their country, all of our emigrants who had already established Croatian clubs throughout the world in the second half of the 19th century, and through this founding, would have grown their identity, there wouldn't have been what happened 20 years ago. Also, if there were no such emotions over the decades, they would not point to the position of Croats in Croatia in former arrangements. And many of them unfortunately ended up in foreign prisons because of their beliefs and expressed emotions and love for their country. Even this time, we need to express another debt of gratitude to these people who have been in prison for Croatia. The law also provides frameworks for Croatia's thinking in the new world order. The demographic picture of Croatia is well known, that it is practically Croatia according to some forecasts of demographics that it is practically in extinction, that in the next 50 years there will be as much as a million of us. I think that this law and the establishment of a central state office opens up the possibility that in the future all these descendants of our emigrants either in the European countries or in the overseas countries, I mean America, Canada, South America and Australia that it is possible and I believe that this government has proposed this law, that the next governments will have this in mind and that through this law they will be even stronger to establish contacts and find just one word is good, to find and to provide opportunities for these descendants of Croatian emigrants and to open up the possibility of returning to our only homeland. This law regulates the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia to establish a central office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and the Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. It was also said in the debate that the advice was big, huge. On the contrary, I think that these tips should be even bigger because through direct contacts with our representatives there will be various ideas, and first I think about the idea of Croatia's economic recovery. Also, thanks to our numerous and diaspora, we have one relationship where they are best seen through sport, especially our football team. For the past few years, there has been one source of precisely those third or fourth generations that have been raised especially in European countries. When there was talk about the costs of this office, I think it is necessary to make it clear and loud that the foreign credits in our state budget amount to over 2 billion euros. It means that this great and human and scientific and sporting potential in our diaspora has a very economic basis. And I believe that after this law that even the future of the Parliament, as well as future Croatian governments, will take good care of it because I believe that in Europe and the world there is one great reservoir, one human potential and I think that for all our generations, there I am talking about third, fourth generations, they have one part of the interest and I believe that Croatia will be a state where they too will find their place. Here I would also refer to an article on Croatian status without Croatian citizenship. During the desert decades, the Croatian diaspora in the western world has made many friends amongst the domicile population, and this was first seen in the creation of the Croatian state when political support was most needed by our country, that it was these countries where the Croatian emigrants were the most numerous that those with Croatian recognition were in the first places. And that is why I think that recognising the status of Croats without Croatian citizenship will be a special honor to these numerous inhabitants of these countries who are very much involved and in the work of any school clubs, whether the social clubs of our emigrants. Here in the end, I think this is one real start and that after this law, many of our emigrants will have in one place, and that will be that government government office, where they will get not only all the information but will finally be in one place and legally solve it all. Normally, after the adoption of this law, certain articles of the Law on residence will also need to be amended, in the Law on Foreigners, etc. In the end, I am giving full support to the adoption of this law, and I believe that until the second reading, if there are any doubts that this will be resolved as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77778	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would now like to interrupt the debate on this agenda point. Namely, seven replicas have applied to this exhibition of yours, and we won't be able to finish it now, so we will continue at 14 hours and with replicas and with discussions where there are two representatives and two clubs per 5 minutes that are registered here. And now, ladies and gentlemen of the parliament, a member of the Croatian Parliament, a former representative in the Croatian Parliament, the mayor of Sisak-Moslavina and Croatian General Đuro Brodarac, passed away. I invite you to pay tribute to our late colleague, Đuri Brodarac, both as a representative and as a mayor and as a Croatian general. - A moment of silence - May eternal praise be to him and glory! - Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue at 12:30 p.m. when the President of the Italian Republic, Mr. Giorgio Napolitano, will address the Croatian Parliament. Resumption of the session, so work sessions at 14 o'clock, so please let's have some benches and be as large as possible. I ask the clubs to inform their representatives and that the more we are when the President of the Italian Republic speaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77779	Comrades and colleagues, good afternoon at the beginning of this second session today. We have stopped at the replicas at the presentation of MP Vedran Rožić. The first is representative Dragan Vukic, a three-minute replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77780	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear representative of my colleague Rožić. You were talking about demographics, and in this sense I want to replicate you because the list of the population in the Republic of Croatia that was spent this year says that we are less. And as we know that the parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina's inhabitants were demographic dividers and from which the Republic of Croatia was being filled with the public, and that it would remain so immeasurably important to invest economically in these parts, and this is an opportunity to invite businessmen from the Republic of Croatia mainly who come from these parts to invest in these parts, to open new jobs to keep people there, so that they can live from their work and to have the mission that these ends had so far. So, it is an opportunity to invite them and everyone else who sees their economic account to invest in places where Croats live in Bosnia and Herzegovina and elsewhere in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77781	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77782	Coliga Vukic is true that not only for Croatia but also for a large number of European countries and even for a large Russia to have a bad forecast for demographic policy in the future. Because every serious state, including Croatia, must take care of the next 30, 50 years. Surely, the areas that have been inhabited by the memory of the century by the Croats who are now here divided by the administrative state borders, have always been through history and in good and evil were leaning on each other. There is also an obligation for both the constitutional and the Republic of Croatia to help the survival of not only the Croatians living in Bosnia and Herzegovina with their economic operators, but we also have spaces in Croatia that the country must provide strategically and keep the population in those areas. So that a strong economic Croatia can certainly do much more in the future than it has done so far in terms of demographic policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77783	Second replica of representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77784	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Rožić, I really agree with you when you say that there is no need to give up emotional dimensions and emotional approaches when we talk about the adoption of this law. I agree so much that disowning from this one, hence the emotional sphere, from its effective part of life would mean giving up and dissipating yourself from a certain amount of patriotism. Also, this would mean that without emotional access or any historical facts could not be valorized properly. The historical fact is the unmistakable contribution of Croats to the defence of both the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina themselves. The huge human potential is made up of 2 million Croats in the overseas countries, 6 hundred thousand Croats in the countries of Europe, as well as 120,000 exiled Croats are huge potential precisely for reasons of the national and economic development of the Republic of Croatia, strengthening the existing and developing instruments for protection of Croats outside Croatia and the cooperation of Croatian institutions outside Croatia and the governments of individual and domestic states. Every honor and thanks to the Government of the Republic of Croatia who recognized all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77785	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77786	Well, fellow emotions are I think everything in life and throughout the history of our people and since we belong to both this one and the Mediterranean circle, and also the interior of Croatia, the people are deeply emotional and it is seen in this way to say the preservation of all the values that we inherited, whether it's just from that club singing or playing tambourine or other way of life, so here we have had the opportunity and heard from the president of Italy when he said in his speech these deep connections of the people who lived in that and the Mediterranean space and this other space where the Croats dwell. That is how I believe that, when we join the European Community, we will now see these one promotional message that Croats will certainly know how to preserve that one of their historic decisions. So, emotions first.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77787	I have to admit, I've been touched by a colleague, because I have to hold back. That's why I'm announcing my colleague Daniel Srb's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77788	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Rosic, this is a proposal for a law that is a big step forward and in this sense I support it. It's a good thing he predicts certain bodies as the Central State Office. I just think that it should not be the adoption of this Pre-election Act, but it should be a fundamental step forward and an opportunity for Croatia to actually develop relations with Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia to strengthen its own position. Perhaps one comparison, in neighbouring Serbia at the moment, there is the Serbian Ministry outside Serbia. So they raised it to an even higher level. And just as Croatia and its surroundings, with Croats living in neighbouring countries and with diaspora in Europe and in overseas countries, are actually one of the countries, we are one of the people in the world who has almost one of the largest diaspora in the world at all. And it is actually a great and great opportunity for Croatia to actually strengthen itself through finding the right relationship, through the strength of the Croatian diaspora, through strengthening the position of the Croatian people in BiH. In this regard, of course, this must not be exclusively pre-election and others, so far the Croats who have returned to the Diaspora homeland have a lot of difficult and unpleasant experiences with Croatian bureaucracy and need help in doing so. Many of them unfortunately regretted their decision to return to the Republic of Croatia, and this must not happen. Therefore, it is also necessary to help break these bureaucratic barriers, make our country more efficient and should indeed, as planned, have one basic strategy for developing relations with Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia to strengthen their position above all in BiH. And as for the diaspora in the overseas countries and countries in Western Europe in order to develop relations with them permanently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77789	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77790	Thank you for the replica of my colleague, Srb. Surely thinking about a strategy for the development of a nation cannot remain only on the laws or on Parliament alone, it is also the task and Croatian Academy of Science and Art, not to speak to various institutes and other reflections. We know there's a so-called so-called west. Think tanks, people of various professions who think about the future of their people, about the prosperity of their country, so this law may now have been a moment for us to discuss and try to give many of the answers and challenges that await the Croatian people in the future. Because we, like the rest of Europe, have an average of about 43 years, and that average will be increased if nothing is done by the state. So I think that next year they're very important to develop a real strategy and they have to make that strategy I'm not going to have to say maybe pretentiously, but the greatest minds of our people.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77791	Thank you very much. Replica, Ivan Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77792	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I think the debate of our colleague Rozic is very important because she is actually a witness. He is a man who spent years and years in Australia and with our people, and he has left the space from which thousands of our people have gone around the world. You can't come to any village I don't know in South America, North America, Australia that you won't find no Croats but a man from his neighborhood, from his place. I mean, that's amazing. But you encouraged me by your argument on one more thing. What did the Irish develop? If we were to suggest this here in this law, given our pettyness, you would ask God how we evaluate it. The Irish have a so-called. Heritage centers – heritage centers in countries where the Irish live as diaspora. What does that mean? That means they celebrate, watch out, the contribution of their people to the country they came to. And now I think of the Croats in Australia. Logo Trajana Drvenica The Croatian winemaker was taken for the Australian coat of arms. Charles Bilic was an official painter of the Olympics in Australia. Tony Shantic won the Melbourne Cup twice, Ralph Širic patented an orbital engine. I don't think even the Croats in Australia know enough, let alone the Croats in Croatia, let alone the Australian public know enough about it. Therefore, in what ways can we promote, do I not know my own interests and spread my influence? He's really impressive. Not to mention Charles Perkins, the first Aboriginal to fight for the right of Aboriginal in Australia, who played for the Croatia Football Club, I don't know which, Adelaide or I don't know which, and where he went from. So it's the first Australian Aboriginal who finished studying, went from the Croatian club to study. Therefore, it is the sea, a sea of opportunities that can be developed to the benefit of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77793	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77794	Well, you have well noticed from your colleague Bagaric that Croatian emigrants have left a trail around the world, and also a large number of people in Croatia have left a trail throughout our history in Croatian history, whether in literature, whether in science. So that one emigration of these inhabitants in this case of Croats has contributed greatly to both the wealth and these peoples. However, there is now one trend in the world, this before we mentioned that there are less and fewer emigrant peoples, and that the countries in which Croatia belongs must also take care of immigration. So it's about the new young and professional workforce. I think it's this very big diaspora that we have those other, third and fourth generations that in these new world circumstances they have the opportunity and will have their place in Croatia. And I think here, again, that all governments and parliaments must take care of it in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77795	Thank you very much. We've come to the last line, and I'm taking the opportunity to thank the colleagues who gave up on behalf of those who are waiting for an argument. Last replica, MP Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77796	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here, Mr. Rožić, I have one inquiry from a non-existent or out-of-eyed Serbian counterpart who asked the Croatian government if the information is correct that foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign exchange accounts have been recorded as income for tourism in the Republic of Croatia. Since you were talking about 2 billion euros about the contributions of foreign currency or the signs of our settlers that clearly has, which is a great contribution to the Croatian budget, it is interesting and not only that, but what Mr Bagarić said about how important our people are from America, Australia, etc., so I wonder how these important people, how these people who mean a lot and in those countries where they live, there are no representatives, we count on that to say a distant diaspora, has a representative in Croatia assembly, legally, to spend it in the Constitution, the Law, etc. I wish these people had the opportunity, regardless of which generations of Croats are outside Croatia, and how significant they are in the world scales if they had a representative, as they were given to the Serb minority, 3 guaranteed MPs in the Assembly, and that someone from this I say further diaspora has a guaranteed representative in the Croatian Parliament who could then certainly show both their needs and their desire to connect our diaspora with Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77797	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77798	You have asked your colleague Grubisic one important question, and I believe it will happen in the next Parliament's meetings. This law was necessary because we see by law that advice is also being formed where the representatives of the complete diaspora will be present. I believe that in the coming years not only consciousness within the state, and just as I mentioned earlier, our one national consciousness and our many diaspora will reflect in such a way that they will be increasingly present in Croatia's life.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77799	My colleagues and colleagues, I just said that the last replica was, in the meantime, we found that there was another replica that wasn't recorded here. She is a colleague of the representative Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77800	Namely, I'll just get back to you in a short while, dear representative Rosic, you said in your debate that you think that the advice that is set up is not large by the number of members, that in each other's contacts there will be different ideas, initiatives to solve the problem and economic co-operation. I fully agree with you that you should always talk, communicate and that the number of members of the council if you will actively participate, if you will contribute really can help a lot. I think it's the hardest thing to do when there's no cooperation, when there's no respect for each other, when there's no communication, then there's neither recognition nor perception of any possibility of solving needs. I just think that this law is a contribution to even better communication and even more understanding and this law is, in my opinion, a law that will in any case strengthen relations, ties between Croats in the Republic of Croatia and outside Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77801	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77802	My colleagues, surely these contacts will be more and more frequent, however, we live safely in a modern technological information system, where today the most young and young and generations living around the world, which are written in various ways, with their countrymen and their relatives, so I believe that these young generations will establish this communication and will practically be able to build on them the future of Croatia, so that they will find ways through this communication in which they will be able to build even nicer and better Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77803	Thank you very much. A series of replicas related to the presentation of Agent Rožić has been completed. Next is the individual debate, MP Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77804	Madam Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I hope my debate doesn't cause as many replicas as the previous one. I would like to begin by saying that I am personally for every solution that is in the interest of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. For every solution they benefit from, for every solution their lives where they live, in the countries where they live, whether they are a national minority or a constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, therefore, for every solution that will make their lives there more beautiful, better, economically prosperous. For each I am also a solution that will strengthen their ties with the Republic of Croatia in every sense, cultural, sports, economic and other. And, of course, I am the solution that leads to their return to Croatia if they want to or their arrival if they want to live in Croatia. In that sense, I accept all the good suggestions and ideas, so everything is good that is in this Law. What I never did, so I do not accept that we share on this issue here in the Croatian Parliament and in general in the political public in Croatia to small and large Croats, to those who are more for Croatians and for Croatia and those who are smaller, so in this sense there are standard already minors and clichés that some of the parties for Croats are outside of Croatia and some are not so many, so I do not accept these divisions as small and large as I accept divisions in the sense that they are truly working, but in particular that Croats living outside of Croatia live better and happier. So this law has certain good solutions for Croatians outside Croatia to be better and for their ties with Croatia to be better. So, for all the solutions that will help Croatians better be where they are, and when they come to live in Croatia to have the same rights as Croats living in Croatia, neither smaller nor bigger. The proposer believes that this law as a form, as the best solution, will solve a good part of the problem of Croats living outside Croatia. Right away, I may not be against the law, but I am also to resolve this issue by law, but I am not sure that it will solve all the issues and that after these Croats living outside Croatia will be better. It might get better, but I'm not sure. It would be better to change the way and treat them, not just to change certain administrative forms or by passing laws. If the law is the only one that will solve all the problems, then I ask the question, why haven't we brought it in 20 years, or does that mean that so far politics... hasn't been good enough? Well, good for the good part, it wasn't good. I am not also because this law is being observed in the context of conscience-washing, so now we've passed the law, so we can tell Croatians from Croatia we've done something, we've passed the law, and now it's going to be all different, now it's going to get better. What I find unacceptable and not good is not about the law itself but in the context of the adoption of this law, which is the time when it is passed. It is not good to bring it now to the end of the session of this House, a few months before the elections. It is not wise either, it is not even sincere, so I would dare say it is not correct for Croats outside Croatia. We should have if we were going to bring him to these legal solutions two years ago, because this is how it will be interpreted in the public political, and especially in the Croats that this law refers to as doing it again in pre-election time to get political points. So it is not good to be with Croats living outside Croatia no matter where and in what relationship bids at this time before the elections. That's why I say it's not a good context in which it's being passed, but that the law needs to be passed safely. So I am therefore to install in the law as many concrete solutions as possible so that Croats living outside Croatia have better relations with Croatia and better and safer living where they are, but I am against using them not to say abuse and often abuse them for petty party interests in elections etc. So we are looking for solutions that will benefit Croats outside Croatia, not in favour of themselves or their party, or using Croats outside Croatia for some political personal or party breakthroughs. Finally, I hope that this law and the adoption of this law will stop us from using Croats outside Croatia for our internal procedures here in Croatia. If we can do that, we've done a lot. What I mean to say is that in this law we need to share more or share the position and attitude of the Croats in BiH compared to the Croats who are minorities in other countries or who are Croatian diaspora or the overseas countries and elsewhere. Because it is a specific position for Croats in BiH. They are a constituent people there, unlike other Croats living in other countries, and this should perhaps be shared more clearly and treated differently in the law itself, not treated in the same way as all Croats outside of Croatia because they are not all in the same position. And according to the Croats in BiH, a lot of good has been done in the last 20 years, but indeed a lot of bad things have been done and executed. The results of our relations or politics, or Croatian politics, especially in the 1990s towards the Croats in BiH, is that now the number of Croats in BiH is almost halved, which is why the fault and Croatian politics that was then led. But we're where we are. Now let's do everything we can to make those who stayed there stare at them or not be less than they are now, preferably more but not less than they are now. In this sense, therefore, the issue of the position of Croats in BiH should be regulated differently or more specifically because they are a constituent people there, but first of all, efforts should be made in two directions. So how to help them to have their status in that BiH state arranged to be a truly equal and constitutive people and that RS must do much more, and in this law I don't see much about it. And secondly, how to help them make their social and economic situation as good as possible. As far as the law's solutions are concerned, I therefore accept the proposal listed here to secure one body from which a single policy towards Croats outside Croatia will be conducted. So I support this solution to create a special office. What I wouldn't say is why is it called a central state office, etc.? As far as I can tell from the law, and otherwise there aren't any other offices there's one. It's this one and he's state. So there's no such thing as peripheral or county, or I don't know what kind of central. It is enough to call the state office for relations with Croats outside Croatia. So you don't need this central, because others besides him are neither in Croatia nor anywhere else. Furthermore, in Article 26, when it comes to counseling and talking about the narrow body of advice made by the president, vice presidents and coordinators of individual resolutions. I don't see why it wouldn't have its own name, so don't rope the body, let it be called the presidency or coordinate. If he had his own name, let him call himself the chairmanship of the council, so he doesn't have to be a tight body so... I call upon the body of counsel, let the presidency be called or already in a different way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These solutions are also controversial and today there have been a lot of speeches about the Croatian card. There's little clarity about it. So let's not use it to make someone privileged either in a better or more privileged position than the Croats in Croatia. So, I don't know how much we're going to help these people, maybe put them back in a position to sort of segregate, isolate, and that's not good. I am to integrate them and not separate them from the Croatian National Corps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77805	Thank you very much. We've got two lines reported. The first representative is Dragutin Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77806	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, you asked your colleague Jelusic one question as to whether the administrative form will solve all these problems. I think it's certainly good that in the law many things are even more decided as such, but what is very important and what I think is this part that is specifically related to economic co-operation. There is one question that we certainly need to address and should be addressed, that there is one greater security related to economic co-operation, and especially our Croats who are located outside the country, because there are certain bad experiences that have been in the past? Whether they're conditioned because there was no law or anything else, that's another question. But I also had a chance to be at this age, ten years behind, and at the Croatian home in Sacramento, in Perth, Australia. I can tell you that I have heard more often than some good thoughts about this economic co-operation. There are cases that have occurred in Croatia related to investments today that have ended up in courts and are still as such waters. That is why I think that this part of economic cooperation must be resolved in a better way. Also related to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, particularly related to the schooling and stychism that was present. I also speak from experience because I taught at the Faculty of Agriculture at the University of Mostar for seven years, and I certainly came to the belief that the need for our presence is there and that this university is not often when spoken for some political reasons but certainly necessary for the existence of our people there and their education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77807	Thank you very much. Second replica, Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77808	Thank you very much. Well, here I would like to emphasise that such a law is really necessary and I am glad that everyone here agrees that this law is being made and I would like to say here that a great effort has been made by the representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Croatian Parliament, especially Mr Ivan Bagarić, to have this law come to the Croatian Parliament and, as far as I know, he has been working on it for a long time. So that law is not, he came now, but Mr. Bagarić has been talking about it for several years so that it cannot be said that it is for pre-election purposes the law but came from the needs that are obvious because we see that the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina are all in a difficult and difficult position. We know how many people from Bosnia and Herzegovina have contributed to the defence of Croatia, in the creation of Croatia, but we also know how many people from Bosnia and Herzegovina live in Croatia, working here, are educated here, and at the same time we are sorry to reduce the number of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And it is certain that such a law will not solve Croatian problems in itself, but at least it will help to some extent, and this is a good idea for representatives from Bosnia and Herzegovina to sit in the Croatian Assembly because the question is whether this is the way it would be spoken in the Croatian Parliament if they were not here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77809	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77810	Thank you. Well, you see, it's good that all MPs make their contribution and it's good to come to this law. I am not reducing my colleagues' contribution at all, but they have contributed to the rest here. What am I saying? It is not important and it is not good if only representatives from Bosnia and Herzegovina or non-Croatian representatives run this law and care for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's no solution and there's a misunderstanding... that's been going on so far. As long as Croatians from Croatia all of us and we are not all taking care of Croats outside Croatia will not be good for Croats outside Croatia, not just Croats outside Croatia. Therefore, I am in favour of all changing our relationship with Croats outside Croatia and not sharing about it, having a single national policy, not that we need Croats outside Croatia only when we give money and when we need their votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77811	Thank you very much. We've got the last reported individual hearing. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77812	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There is no doubt that our obligation to help Croatian citizens wherever they are not only our constitutional obligation is regulated in Article 10. The constitution rather than simply here has been a lot of talk and emotion, our pleasant commitment. What we expected after eight years of government, i.e. to shorten the whole story to just the last term, four years, that this bill, Mr. Secretary of State, will show all the successes of our policy, the policies of this HDZ government versus Croats around the world, especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What was the life of this policy that the Constitution bound us to, which was our activities, which were our programs. There's not a word of that. But what is there and what is this law? This law is a simple postcard for Croats above all in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as for Croats around the world from Croatians from Croatia, and that is all. A lot, a handful of nice wishes and greetings and a lot of emotions, and how we're going to do that, so isn't that enough for you because it is said in the assessment of the funds needed to implement this law, the government says there is no need to provide any additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. This is the government's concern for these people. So gentlemen, I believe you want to help, but that's not how you help. Gentlemen, a lot more works and less words, then it would be better for us here and for them there. We can only help others if we are able to help. Croatia is bankrupt, Croatia is bankrupt, but the smile is on faces and the government is laughing as Croatia shoots at seams. Instead of industrialisation and re-industrialisation, what we are committed to and what is our obligation today and the enormous resources can be withdrawn from the European Union's resources which... has given its current and delusions in its own policy right on regional development, to re-industriousisation. Where your programs are, we need to talk about this, especially with neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. Resuscitation of such plans and that, it was a help, that would be something to see that could then be touched. This is what I say only good intentions, good words, good and warm greetings. There is no doubt, and it was also said by ruling Croats that they are getting smaller, not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina but in Croatia, and that all of us need to be concerned. The Croats may be a little more in the overseas countries, but they are already who knows what generations and generations are. The active innovative policy in Croatia and re-industrisation form the basis of assistance and survival and the recovery of our constitutional obligation. In order to do this and here it was necessary, there was a speech about consent but we here in Croatia must make a basic prerequisite not to equate the Croats with which political parties are. And when we break that switch in our heads, it'll be much clearer. Then some discussions on the political situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina itself would be different. However, I believe that time will come. It still runs quite slowly in Croatia by some. Let us remember far now, in 2005, when Sanader, who has escaped, will soon return, led seven ministers to Canada and previously announced a major export offensive in Croatia. But before that, we will be helped by our people, the rich people who, the Croats who have been determined and who will invest in Croatia. As they returned, there was even talk that special bodies would be formed. That's not gonna happen. Well, how the Croats didn't help us those who didn't reinvest, and that's why we're to blame here it's for sure now that we're here, but it's just as declarative as it is in the law and states, so to help those of our people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What are the nomotechnical provisions of this Law? They don't even have a norm, they're not norms of the law. They're norms more declarations of some kind, resolution. 70 percent of the norms found in this Law are not norms in terms of nomotechnics that are binding. What's binding and what really has power first of all is this administration. Here we are, maheri. We immediately know how to set up advice, how to set up a central state office for Croatians. So the only material benefit of this will be for Croats in neighbouring countries that we will hire some people here in Croatia. If we had this other one, then this would have some justification. And then, apart from the Central State Office, we also have a special office called this much poetically as the once-open door of the government, and this is called the Welcome Office as our lucky one's office. Now, this welcoming office that he would be doing and how he would welcome these people at the border, we don't know which, he asked them how much they brought. Now that's a question we gentlemen here in Croatia haven't cleared up. The Croats have really helped Croatians in Croatia. And then when it was hardest, we all agree. And then we don't have to run away from asking a question, unfortunately, it's before the court now and before the courts revealing where that money went. And please, what do you expect from the enemy than to kill you and rob you? But from the one who is drilling into the Croatian chest, who abuses the most difficult situation in which Croatia has ever found and steals that help. Okay, that's what we're late to say here. They'll tell the judiciary about it. Now, instead of this Welcome Office, which is a question of how we will function at this time of work in Croatia, although it is not designed but full steamed office for good-bye from Croatia. The drain of young brains is worrying. Young people don't have a job, they're going out. That doesn't concern anyone alive. Who's going to have to help whom if this is a wasteland tomorrow? The question of how we're going to help in this economic sense remains extremely fluid, unspeakable, or practically inexplicable. There are no obligations, no obligations that would send at least a blank norm to some concrete law. However, here is the discretionary assessment of the granting of citizenship by the Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court, where the authorities of the state administration are ordered to explain their decision to grant or deny citizenship. So it's no longer a discretionary assessment that's been worth giving someone citizenship for a long time, depriving someone. Now, the people who gave up Croatian citizenship and for me it's something terrible. We can understand someone's life needs and existences, but emotions, such people, in that sense, that they should be given a special status they don't deserve. Because Croatians in Croatia only have one country. They have no reserve country or spare citizenship except for some. Thus, by what criteria did she already say this? Here's another sentence. [[Invader Antunović: Time!]] That's what my colleague Bonačić said on behalf of the SDP club. How Croatians will be given their status without Croatian citizenship. Will that be the HDZ card?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77813	For starters, please do not throw yourself off the bench during the discussion of the presidential table. If you have anything to object to again, you have instruments in your Rules of Procedure. We have reported 4 corrections of the incorrect quote and 2 rappers. First correction by MP Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77814	Thank you, Madam President. This demagogue is almost impossible to correct. However, I will correct a few of the demagogue expressions I have heard here. After so many beautiful and useful discussions, I'm surprised that Mrs. Ingrid Antičević is speaking this way, although I think it's important for the public to say that you speak this way and about things that you understand well, let alone things you don't understand at all, and you can't understand this thing because, unfortunately, you haven't read the law. Because if you had read the law then you would know among other things where relations are not known which articles on communication and economic cooperation with non-Kroats in Bosnia and Herzegovina etc. So it is not true that this is a postcard with good wishes but it is true that this is also a greeting and postcard from the Croatian Assembly of Representatives and Government of the Republic of Croatia who is the most serious thinker and sincerely intends to arrange a relationship with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77815	The second correction to the incorrect allegations, Agent Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77816	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So Croatia is not bankrupt. This is the first incorrect quote by counterpart Antičević, however, in your speech you presented a number of falses, and how much your concern for Croats in BiH and outside Croatia would be best if you looked at the amendments you made to the Republic of Croatia's budget on the rebalancing budget of the Republic of Croatia where the position to help Croats outside of Croatia has been stripped a few dozen times and I don't understand why you direct your impatience to HDZ through HDZ towards Croats outside BiH. The other thing is, if you're already saying things, that meeting wasn't in Canada, it was in Cleveland, and it had a completely different intention. And how much SDP thinks about BiH Croats best shows how harmful your support to the SDP of BiH has been and what it has done and what damage it has done to the Croats in BiH. And that's the truth. And that's the real truth and that's the historical truth you'll never wash yourself of. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77817	My colleagues, colleagues Antičević-Marinović, please do not argue without using what is provided and allowing normal discussion. Next correction of the incorrect quote, representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77818	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, you've said a few, a number of incorrect allegations, and I'm going to tell you incorrectly that there are no means in this law as incorrect as these are only good intentions. I have two mandates in this House, first on the Croatian subcommittee outside the Republic of Croatia, and now on the board. It is this government that has developed a strategy for relations with Croats, and the result of this strategy is this law. It is incorrect that this government does not care about Croats, however, many funds through different ministries are currently provided for Croats who are either national minorities or are a constituent people in BiH or are our emigrants, economic emigrants, political emigrants or different species. So, this particular government ensures good assumptions that Croats survive and return, even calling on them by this law to return to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77819	The final correction of the incorrect allegations, MP Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77820	Well, here's a colleague she'd love very much, but it won't happen to her that Croatia went bankrupt. Unlike many European countries, Croatia will have to solve its problems on its own in a similar situation, while these will have to deal with the Union's abundant assistance. But she bankrupted the politics of the Croatian SDP in BiH the moment Milanovic went to support Komsic and so the BiH Croats got a representative they did not vote for, thanks to you all the honours.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77821	Next up is the replica of representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77822	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here I am, unlike fellow Anticevic attacking and correcting the allegations I would like to commend her opening sentence in which she said that it would be better if there were works and much less words. However, I do not believe in the honesty of her statement because if she really meant it then she would have stopped saying this all she said because these colleagues who were working on this law at least did something. They made one suggestion... I know how many years they've been worried about it, it's taken them a lot, but there's something they came up with. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree that it's much better to work and less to talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77823	Replicate response, MP Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77824	Very brave, or very short, but I'll tell my colleague that unlike your other colleagues, it's brave that you brought out the replica, well, you're a married man, so that's what we expected. So, when we're just saying that it's not even a content dispute, remember and think seriously about 8 years of continued authority, and you're doing this here. And that with possibly some commitments that will only take place since 1.01.2012. It's not serious. There was a time, but you haven't thought of it yet, but the election's coming, so then you thought of it not any voice...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77825	And the last replica, MP Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77826	My colleagues, Ingrid, you were talking about the brain office or the brain drain. So you see on TV, we are bombed every day and, on public television, that young people will have to deal completely equally with competitions in the EU. Therefore, they will be able to run equally with Europeans for jobs in the EU, so I guess by hinting at these young people when they have not already had an equal relationship here because there is an important similarity here that will be able to go to the EU, and Croatia will remain as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77827	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77828	There's only one sentence. You've talked about it before and your colleagues, so the question of the Croats from Posavina. We remember, I remember, that's what my colleagues were telling me, there's been a little bit of a colleague here since, but these important ones have some continuity of those with the long-standing continuity of the parliamentary MPs are witnesses of when exactly the majority of the HDZ just sent them away and the Croats from Posavina who came here to get first comfort, and then perhaps something else, were removed with a terrible sentence "Go and complain to Ali."
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77829	Please don't throw it away. Both colleagues and colleagues. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77830	No, I gave up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77831	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the debate individually by registered agents. There's a final debate on behalf of the club. The first is representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB. I was going to say, you have the word of a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77832	Therefore, this legislative proposal does indeed have elements in some segments or parts of the resolution, declarations, and in some other segments there are legislative proposals that are similar to the law and which are strictly defined and which are strictly regulated by certain substances, that is, a proposal on the establishment of a central office, advice and some other Croatian card, or Crocard however you will, although it is not defined who has all these rights and which these rights are explicitly numbered, except for some. Croatia and Croats outside Croatia need immigration policy. Some kind of government office for immigration or any other form would have contributed significantly more to what Mrs. Anticevic was talking about, and that's not an outflow, I'm not going to say brains, it would have been such an ugly anatomically, a drain of young people from the Republic of Croatia, and instead of improving our image of education and demographic image here, we're improving the demographic image of Europe, Australia, Canada, America and so on and not just demographically than just with trained personnel, we obviously regularly supply them. It is estimated that about 10,000 Croats leave the Republic of Croatia every year, whether it is that much or not, but here according to the list of non-officials, the population in the Republic of Croatia is less than 200 thousand, and the number of Croats in BIH has almost been cut in half on the previous census. What that means is how it can actually be fixed well here someone has talked about it, and a colleague from the ring association is here to primarily economic projects that connect Croatia and Croatia outside Croatia, here I mean mostly the BIH with which we have 1000 km of borders, which is watery as well as so-called watery. dry borders and where Croatians live from one part of the good and other borders, it does not matter how much in the depths of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, where cross-border cooperation and projects towards the European Union can be done on projects of cross-border cooperation. We haven't talked much about this today but more about the political consequences, the political bickering here, the party, the interparty, etc. I must point out that no one here today mentioned the Croats who settled in the so-called The soft belly of the Croatian region like, Kordun, Banovina, then with us in Slavonia Okucana, Slavonska posavina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that it is actually for them, given that there is not much concern for the competent authorities and authorities, that the late measures against them, that they exercise their rights late and that the regulations that they would abide by here in this territory in the empty space of the Republic of Croatia, they go away. So I would call this Strategy of the current Government of the Republic of Croatia in continuity since 2004 an exit strategy of the Republic of Croatia because these people leave Croatia forever. Here's an example of 30 families from Knin, together in one day they went to an overseas country. I've said enough, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77833	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, MP Mato Bilanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77834	Well, we could replicate, but I don't have that custom. It is incorrect, Mr Grubisic, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not work for the Croats from the Bosnian Posavina who have settled in these areas. I must tell you that a series of regulations have been adopted by members of the Croatian Defence Council, who have received houses, of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in general and Vojvodina, who have inhabited those areas that you have said will receive houses according to their squares used for 0 kuna. And it is certainly an incentive to provide them with standard security in this area, unfortunately you have people who always want to go out and want to go, but there are certainly more people in these areas today, mostly in Slavonia than there were 10 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77835	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77836	Madam Vice President, if someone's saying something I didn't say, is that a violation of the Rules of Procedure? So I wasn't talking about members of HVO who got houses. If we're talking about them then we're talking about those who couldn't be members of HVO like those from Kotor Varoshi. The results are best told how many people have even returned to Bosnia's Pavina, Mr. Bilnjic. I'm done.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77837	Finish it. Done. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, not now. I am asking you to allow us to complete this debate in an appropriate and decent manner without unnecessary arguments. Before I conclude the debate, the last speaker on behalf of the Club is representative Ivan Bagaric on behalf of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77838	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I think that at the end of this debate, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I can thank everyone who has been constructively here and with the best intention of discussing it. Normally, any kind of politics and any kind of demagogy that has also been here should be removed, but it will certainly not cover all the good that we have heard and all the honest things we have done. I do all this as president of the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and as a representative who from the very beginning of the initiative to the construction of these documents was practically on all stairs. I can guarantee all those who are here in the assembly and those who may be watching us. This is the sincere intention of the government of the Republic of Croatia to systematically settle this very important issue. Therefore, the truth is that we will make more administrations than in some media have raised the issue, the truth is that this will cost Croatia in one way or another than we believe that each kuna invested in this project will be returned tenfold and will benefit both Croats and Croats outside Croatia. It is important to say that this is a law passed on the threshold of Croatia's entry into the EU, not before the elections. But because Croatia's entry into the EU actually opens up new perspectives, new opportunities and in these perspectives and possibilities are spoken in this bill. And many who have spoken here unfortunately have not even read.So there is quite a reference to cross-border cooperation, funds defined and any cooperation. On the other hand, I think this bill will be pleased with the representatives because someone here was talking about caritas and the church, so representatives between themselves and the BiH Church, because their project with the Ring Association was microcrediting and support for the small economy. Cardinal Puljić himself personally participated in a certain way in encouraging this project and Articles 52 and 53 to speak clearly and clearly about it and they are pure as tears. We have reached a consensus on representation in the Croatian Parliament and he is now who he is, I would not reopen him. However, the question of a correspondence vote, a correct correspondence vote, is a question that if we can't do it now, it will be arranged by someone who comes after us because there is no country in which people outside that country vote without being able to do it with dignity, civility whether on the Internet or on the letter as it seems. Therefore, it is something that stands before us but in any case we cannot put everything into this law among other things because we would open up different recommendations and because the government was going with those provisions that are unequivocally and which will actually be a consensus adopted in this Croatian Assembly. Therefore, I am giving myself the freedom to even propose that Article 50 be put in place myself to Mr. Secretary of State, in the context of keeping economic records and statistics in order to create a better structure and even to raise the issue because it was often a question of the issue of Croatian status without Croatian citizenship and so on. Croatian cards to be essentially united, to be one conditional on the instrument so that the opposition can be closed and to get the bill's full support of the Croatian Parliament. Finally, here is the truth, thank you once again and I thank all of you and the Lord who gave us a certain way to bring this debate to an end and in anticipation of the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77839	Thank you very much. I call for the word to be taken final on behalf of the motion Secretary of State Mario Nobilo.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77840	Dear Madam Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. Very short on behalf of the lawmaker. We, of course, perceive the principle support of the Croatian Parliament's systematic arrangement of this matter. He has various opinions on the timing of this law, but I think it's still a process. We are establishing a structure that must unite and strategically think about these problems. This structure that we are going to ask in the future should only be a mechanism for this process to continue and improve, and I think it is unusually important that we continue to seek agreement with these issues, because without such a debate that becomes emotional at times, but without that debate it could not be. I would especially like to welcome those proposals that are concrete and relating to the law itself, and I think that they should be taken into account to another reading in a way that has already been explained in order for this law to be harmonised with other laws to also serve its electoral purpose. Time is very responsible. Croatia has completed negotiations with the EU, according to the region, it must be redefined actively and constructively and within that region must be... BiH is particularly concerned about the interest of the constituent people that was here today, and the main problem in a series of problems that Croats have in all categories, and surely that this emotional debate has contributed to the very problems that this law contains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77841	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I was pleased to hear that the motioner will take into account the debates that have been presented here in particular concrete proposals, and I hope that we will finally get a law that will ensure what is missing for Croats outside Croatia and Croats in Croatia, which is effective institutions that will be at the service of those to whom the law applies. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77842	We move to the proposal for a law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, was first reading, P.Z. No. 857, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The proposal for a law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments, proposals and opinions delivered in the debate will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please engage and vote on the proposed conclusion. Score. This conclusion was accepted by most votes, 113 for, 3 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77843	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Credit Unions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 855 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and you received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed in an emergency procedure, which means that the first and second reading is united. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. I give my word to Secretary of State to Zdravko Marić, Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77844	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In short lines, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Unions was, above all, fundamental reasons. On the one hand, I would say a good number of amendments and additions to the regulations primarily in the segment relating to payment turnover, as well as some others from which the need for amendments and additions to this applicable Law on credit unions has arisen, and of course in order to further strengthen or develop the business of these institutions. One of the important reasons for the changes and additions is also the need to regulate the ability to receive union deposits and crafts chambers by credit unions in order to maintain an existing system of solidarity that these trade unions and crafts organisations provide to their membership, but also no less important reason, which is that the possibility of potentially receiving grants from European funds is actually regulated. What are the basic differences with the applicable Credit Union Act. First, it should be said that credit unions are allowed to receive money deposits from trade unions and craft chambers and the possibility of receiving grants from international institutions. It is in fact possible for the proposed credit unions to receive funds in the interests of their members and to encourage, through various forms of micro-credit, the development of the activities of their members, craftsmen, farmers, individuals who carry out their own activities and others who, by law, can be members of the credit union. Credit unions are also allowed to carry out payment traffic for their members, but provided that all the conditions and pre-conditions prescribed by the Law on Payments and also to be granted by the Croatian National Bank are met. I would like to remind you that the new Law on Payment Transport, which entered into force on 1 January 2001, newly regulates the operation of payment services, i.e. allows licensing for the conduct of payment services if the conditions laid down by the Law on Payment Transport are met, unlike that of the previous Law on Payments... which specifically prescribed that payment services in Croatia are performed by the Croatian National Bank and the Bank and the Croatian Post. In addition, these amendments and additions have introduced the obligation to carry out an audit of the annual financial reports for each financial year, as well as one nomotechnical amendment relating to the part of the improvement of the provisions of the applicable law, so-called ‘the law’. fit and proper criteria in the sense that members of the administration must, of course, meet certain criteria, in any case they must not be legally convicted. As far as this proposal of the law itself is concerned, as the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament said, so an emergency procedure is proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77845	Thank you very much. I see there are no representatives of the board here except for my colleague Chuhil. Would you like to take your word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We have two applications on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77846	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The law on credit unions actually meant the harmonisation of certain financial institutions with the legislation of the European Union and that law that came into force in early 2007, in fact, savings and credit unions were transformed into credit unions. Few savings-credit cooperatives could meet all the conditions prescribed by this regulation so that, at this point in time, 124 savings-credit cooperatives that were found at the end of 2005 in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, we now have 23 unions that are regionally deployed, but we will see later from the exposure that this is actually one of the problems that we have thus regulated the territorial functioning of the credit unions in the area of only one county. As this is an emergency procedure, I'm going to say a few sentences introductively and in general. In fact, Croatia has more than a century of cooperative tradition, and among them are savings-credit cooperatives and just to remember that in 1862 it was founded in Pitomaca the first savings-credit association. That is why I think it is important to keep this form of financial institutions that are very important, especially in the function of micro-crediting, so small entrepreneurship and craftsmanship. What were the reasons that we liquidated the savings and credit unions and founded the credit unions? The basic law is harmonisation, the reason is to comply with European Union legislation, but in this way it is important to make credit unions harder to work because of legal constraints, primarily on the territorial principle that they can only be organised to one county. Then, the law abolished the possibility that, until then, savings-credited business cooperatives such as payment, receiving deposits or loans from the state administration body, units of local and regional self-government, HBOR, other funds, legal persons, cooperatives, craft chambers, chambers of commerce, cooperatives, advice, trade unions, trade unions, international organisations, etc. Then, a number of then savings-credit cooperatives were also per staff, technical and financial equipment at such a stage that it could not be transformed into a credit union. So, at this point in Croatia, 236 credit unions are operating. I have already said that they play a significant role in the world, but especially in the European Union as a micro-credit function. There are more than 100 countries in the world, covering around 200 million members who are through credit unions addressing some of their financial needs. As this is minor in Croatia at this time shows the fact that in these 23 credit unions, they actually have only 500 million kunas of activity. So there is still a significant period ahead of us to strengthen this kind of financial institution. At global level, therefore in the world they are joined into the World Council of Credit Unions, and the Unions operating in the European Union's field of credit unions. And here it may be important to point out that this very European credit union network is significantly helping new members of the European Union in this area, so to achieve a status that is the same as in other European Union countries and I think it is actually good for these institutions operating in Croatia at the moment Croatia enters the European Union. I will present some data or experiences from European countries that have a large number of credit unions such as Great Britain, Ireland, Lithuania, Poland, Estonia, Latvia, Sweden, Austria and some other countries. In fact, in addition to credit deposits for their members, they can carry out other jobs such as simple banking transactions, current account transactions, accounting services advisory services, life insurance intervention, payment traffic for their membership, the skills development services of their members in money management, etc. So, from the experience of credit unions in the world in Europe, there is still a significant area that we in Croatia must and can develop. Most or almost in all European Union countries, credit unions are territorially organised, but the question is how is defined the territory in which they operate. So we will take the example of Great Britain, such as London, which has about 7 million inhabitants and is divided into 32 municipalities. The criteria for membership and residence, i.e. employment in the municipality where the credit union has its head office and two or four other neighbouring municipalities. Such an option is therefore left to regulate each credit union with its own statutes in which it will operate. So, on minimum or maximum territory. In most observed European Union legislations that we have analysed the deposits of members of credit unions are secured in the same way as bank deposits. We see that in this proposal that we have in the debate as the most important changes are the receiving of money deposits from trade unions and crafts chambers, and receiving grants from international institutions and as a newspaper of payment traffic for their members, to say that savings and credit cooperatives in one part were also engaged in payment traffic, that this was abolished when we transformed them into credit unions hardly that any of the current 23 credit unions would be able to re-run payment traffic now, especially since they lost the committees and those who left their ancestors, so savings-credit cooperatives are not quite certain to return. A review is being introduced which is good, because so far it has not been regulated in this way. So it wasn't necessarily an audit. Conditions for a member of the administration where paragraph 3 is introduced which states that a member of the administration shall not be legally convicted of a criminal offence against the value protected by international law and of any of the following offences and shall be listed by several. I think it's also good and it's actually improving the law itself. And I would like to say what might be good to consider, given that this law does not bear our mark that this is a harmonisation with European legislation, and it is in fact a harmonisation with European legislation because it is so adopted as a law, and it is now in line with the laws that we have actually harmonised with European legislation. When we observe our 23 credit unions then they operate in the area of 13 counties where we have one that operates on the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. It's this union credit union. In eight counties, we have no credit union organized, and in these 13 they range from one to four in each county. Most of them are in the Zagreb area, but given the difference in the size and number of our county residents, it might be good to reanalyze this criterion for the creation of credit unions soon and propose something similar to that in other countries that have developed credit unions. I therefore think it would be good to consider Article 9(3), which states that they can only be organised in the area and in the statutes to act only in the same area. And in point 4, living in the same area means actually the area of the same unit of regional self-government, or as we say in the area of one county. We think that it would be good to reshape this point 4 in Article 9 and to give certain freedom to each credit union, to arrange for its statute to act in the area of one or two or three neighbouring units of regional, or regional self-government. Since we have no more significant objections to the very text of the proposed SDP changes, they will accept such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77847	Thank you very much, MPs Zgrebec. The next is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club in turn, MP Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77848	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the debate on the Amendment Laws and Supplements of the Credit Union Act, it is necessary to come from the very definition of the credit union, which is that those financial institutions in which all members of the credit union are involved, in accordance with the principle of mutual assistance, by improving and protecting their economic and other professional interest in accordance with the law and the Statute of the credit union. It is certain that by mobilising the domestic savings of members, the funds of international organisations dealing with micro-credit and all other sources of funds, and their location on a regional basis can significantly boost the development of micro-financing and regional development of the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore necessary to create an adequate framework legislative, to improve it because the framework within which it will be, therefore, satisfied the individual interests of the members of the credit union as well as the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Credit unions in Croatia really do have a long tradition because the first savings-credit cooperative was founded in 1862 as the legal predecessor of credit unions in Pitomaca. We know that the transformation of savings and credit unions into credit unions was carried out by the Law on Credit Unions which entered into force in 1.1.2007, which also resulted in the process of harmonising the business of existing savings and credit unions with the gains of the European Union. That law and sub-legislative regulation regulates all relevant areas of business of credit unions and thus obtaining a work licence from the CNB, measures and management of all types of credit union risk, the determination of the insolvency rate, the uniform display of an effective interest rate. Mandatory CNB reporting is required. So, a lot's been solved. Today, in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, a total of 23 credit unions are operating. The fact is that they are very regionally unequal and that out of 21 counties in 8 counties there are no credit unions, and the number of residents per Union ranges from 59 213 residents in Međimurje County to 309 696 inhabitants in Zagreb. And precisely because of this territorial principle which is one of the principles of establishing a credit union with the principle of both employment and profession, the fact is that perhaps this principle should be changed in some way because there is a credit union in more than 100 countries around the world. Although this territorial principle is different, certain conditions are still laid down. Well, here's a suggestion to do a little research on how credit unions work in other countries. It is also important to say that today these 23 credit unions therefore have 600 million capital, and we believe that perhaps by changing that territorial principle, or as more counties as one territorial unit were said to be, in order to make it a much larger asset, therefore more capital, which could then also be directed towards entrepreneurs to craftsmen. We are pleased that the bill allows credit unions to carry out payment traffic in accordance with the Law on Payments, which entered into force on 1 January 2011. We really think that they are trained in human resources and that they have secured material and technical support would certainly extend the type of credit union services and increase quality. It is certainly good to point out that this law allows credit unions to receive deposits from trade unions and crafts chambers as well as grants from international institutions, and this is indeed allowed by credit unions to receive cash in the interests of their members and to encourage, through microcredit, the development of the activities of their members of craftsmen, farmers and natural persons carrying out their own activities and others who, by law, can be members of the credit union. We also believe that it is a well-regulated obligation to review the business of the credit union, and this is because of the interests and members of the credit union and supervisory authorities, and we also consider it very good that a member of the administration cannot be a person who is legally convicted of criminal offences. Based on all this, and therefore in the interest of better quality business credit unions, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77849	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates. First up is representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77850	Thank you, Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. I'm going to say that this legal proposal that we're discussing today represents actually a re-enhancing of credit unions or I'm going to say, literally, this law is literally the wind in the back of credit unions. In fact, the financial market now covered by credit unions as legal followers of savings-credit cooperatives in the past few years has been experiencing, so to speak, a kind of catharsis, i.e. major changes. From this unregulated market, which was almost borderlined by anarchy to contraction, i.e. the cleaning of that market from a large number of unsuspecting entities that were using this particular legal disorder or better said indetermination and operating literally in the area of crime. I recall, in 2006, the Credit Union Act was adopted which offered the following opportunities to save-credit cooperatives at the time: to reshape either into savings banks or into exactly the credit union and continue to operate in one of these forms or to simply make a decision on the liquidation and termination of existence. What is also important to say, at the time of the adoption of this Law on Credit Unions in Croatia, was in force of the old Law on Payments, which did not allow credit unions to carry out payment turnover as one of their very important jobs. Under the law, only the Croatian National Bank, Business Bank and Post Office could carry out payment traffic in Croatia. Today, 23 credit unions operate from over 120 of them in 2005 after the specific cleaning of this sector in Croatia. So, practically every six have disappeared from that financial market, and even today, ten of them are in liquidation, or bankruptcy. As I have already said, this law represents a liberalisation of the terms of business of credit unions, and from the reasons we heard from the proposing representatives at the Finance Committee session this is actually just the first step, liberalisation will continue. And this is good given precisely the fact that in 8 Croatian counties there is not a single credit union, and also given the importance of credit unions outside the world. One of the most important newspapers adopted by this law is the return to credit unions and the possibility of carrying out payment traffic. Namely, the new Law on Payments entered into force on 1 January of this year, which is in line with the European property, also allows credit unions to obtain a license to carry out payment traffic. It also opens this legislative proposal to credit unions and a number of other options, allowing them to receive money deposits from trade unions and crafts chambers, but also to receive grants from international institutions. Of course, all of this significantly extends the business space of credit unions and opens up a series of opportunities and, of course, microcrediting of its members, and we know that members of credit unions are mostly natural persons with registered activity. So, craftsmen and farmers. One word of this law breathes into the credit unions air into the lungs, and inhales, so we can say a new life. True, it should be said that this law, with liberalisation, brings credit unions and proper obligations. Namely, taught precisely by bad experience with savings-credit cooperatives, the proponent in this law introduces the obligation of regular annual audits of financial reports and this is a very good move. However, the CNB and so far, therefore under the existing law, have supervised credit unions in a double manner by analysing financial reports and then by internal supervision of authorised persons by the Croatian National Bank or by authorised auditors or other professionally qualified persons, based on the authority of the governor of the Croatian National Bank directly in the credit unions themselves. So, the difference between the current law is that according to this proposal, financial reports will have to be revised before, and that is one additional cost for the credit union, but at the same time is an additional insurance against the illegality that we remember savings-credit cooperatives as the legal predecessors of the savings-credit unions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77851	Thank you very much. Next up for debate, MP Dino Kozlevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77852	Honored vice presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry. At the very beginning, let me point out that this is a law that we adopt that should be supported and I immediately say that this law is in its entirety and in what it is intended for a positive law and this law will further regulate relations on the financial market. I think it should be pointed out. What I'm trying to say is that I don't want to do it again and I have a few things to say that these amendments and additions of the law to credit unions allow for additional jobs. What has been said so far, that they will also be able to use deposits from trade chambers unions, that they will be able to receive grants from international institutions and what is one of the biggest newspapers is that they will be able to carry out payment traffic. As is said, credit unions were created by the adoption of a new law when they were, that is, given the possibility of reshaping from savings-credit cooperatives, as we heard from 123 cooperatives, 23 credit unions were created, and that is exactly one number that we cannot be satisfied with. However, the law has made it possible. And I will stress that this is one of the good sides of the European Union's approach, that in one segment of the market, or financial market, order has been introduced, in the way that the European countries regulate it. I wish that one regulation was rigorous, i.e. the regulation correctly defined, so now savings-credit cooperatives all the experiences that were not in so far-fetched history that citizens today feel would probably have been avoided or that there was a greater order. However, what he would say is that we must regulate relations for the future and the credit union now allows members or members of the Union to meet their needs, requirements, all who are joined by the Union in such a way that the Union serves what is primarily the people who join together, which is to enable them to finance, primarily small or craftsmen, farmers, small entrepreneurship. And what I have to say in that part is that we can't be satisfied with the number. 23 13 counties are covered, 8 counties still have no credit union, whether we can think about allowing it to operate in the area of two, three counties, means to expand the area. Finally, we have one credit union operating under the regulations in the whole of the Republic, which is the union's credit union because we cannot be satisfied with this number. In fact, the old Law on Payments was given at the moment the possibility of reshaping savings-credit cooperatives meant whether or not it made payment traffic impossible in savings banks, i.e. in credit unions. Payment traffic is one of the important mechanisms where people have ultimately achieved their need, and unfortunately during this period it has not been implemented, the commissions have gone to banks and one part of the staff that allows, who has worked in unions this job, is not there today, have gone to other financial institutions. NO, well, these are given the option should mean there is the role of policy, to allow through stimulating measures ultimately are propagating all that needs to be done now to bring people closer to the possibility of using an institute such as the credit union in their daily business performance. So, here we have jobs, we have seen how the Union is organised in Western Europe and that part of "cooperation" whatever they call it, whether there will be union, alliance, community, whatever they say, but they are just members that are within their financial institutions, we need to propagate, we need to allow people to propagate. Everyone will choose their mode. Here it is, I'd finish here, I think until now it's been said, to support a law that will be said by a colleague of the new wind in the back precisely to our entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs, craftsmen and farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77853	Thank you very much. This debate has exhausted an individual debate. I also thank Secretary of State Maric and Director Kaufman
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77854	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Credit Union Act was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 855, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Credit Union Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 108 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77855	And we're going to the next item on the agenda. The next item is - National policy proposal to promote gender equality for the period 2011 to 2015. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government submitted this proposal on the basis of Article 129. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Law and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Of course. Free Recipient Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77856	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Madam Representatives and the Gentlemen Representatives. It is my pleasure, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to present to you a proposal for a national policy to promote gender equality for the upcoming 4-year period, in accordance with good practice, to present such documents drawn up by the Government to the Croatian Parliament with the aim of having an appropriate debate on them here. As I trust you, a well-known document is adopted under the law on gender equality, more specifically Article 18 of the Law. All these years, on various occasions and especially in the process of joining the European Union, we have followed and assessed not only the progress of women's human rights but also the progress in implementing this very document as the most important strategic document to remove sexual discrimination and promote the implementation of equal opportunities policy. I would like to remind you that in its latest report on Croatia's 2010 progress, the European Commission has assessed that good progress has generally been made in the field of gender equality, women's rights and the application of the principle of equal opportunities. Progress has also been made in the implementation of the previous national policy, the continuation of public awareness on gender equality and the introduction of a gender dimension into public policy and anti-discrimination legislation. I also consider it important to mention an assessment based on data on the compatibility of the views of Croatian and EU citizenship in this area. According to the results of the first survey on the public attitude towards gender discrimination carried out in 2009 the same year that around 60% of respondents in both the Union and Croatia think that women and men are not equal. At the same time, a similar percentage of respondents believe that progress has been made in the last decade and gender discrimination is less than ten years ago. I also cite this because Croatia, as a future EU member, will also commit the implementation of the European Commission's Gender Equality Strategy for the period 2010 to 2015, which is also referred to by this national policy proposal. The government of the Republic of Croatia certainly shares the view that the area of gender equality is an extremely important area because this is primarily about respecting one of the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and the basis for interpreting our Constitution. Out of the numerous activities and legislative initiatives that we have carried out in the previous period, I will only mention the almost consensual adoption of the new Law on Gender Equality in July 2008 which introduced new important standards and was one of the key criteria for closing the negotiating chapter in 19 called Social Policy and Employment at the end of 2009. The draft proposal for this strategy contains, inter alia, a defined legal basis for its adoption, assessment of the situation, a strategic framework for the implementation of the policy of equality and of course an action plan. The assessment of the situation is based on the results of the analysis and reports on the implementation of the national policy from the previous period in which we have some achievements but also on the further challenges we face with the aim of achieving even greater results in the fight for the equality of people of different sexes. The action plan contains twenty objectives and approximately a hundred concrete measures, therefore significantly less measures than the previous strategy. I remind you, earlier there were 144 of them, which is certainly precisely the consequence of the relatively satisfactory fact of what has been done so far. In addition, the consequences and intentions of the need to adopt an operational document in which we seek to avoid repeating the provision of measures contained in other strategic documents dedicated to the removal of discrimination against women. For example, the National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence and the Strategy for the Development of Women's Entrepreneurship. The proposed measures and objectives are based on the results of an analysis of the implementation of the measures of the previous national policy, the results of several major scientific research, and are in line with the objectives of the European Commission's Women and Men's Equality Strategy 2010-2015 as well as other important international documents. This document contains 7 priority programming areas, promoting human rights of women and gender equality, equal opportunities in the labour market, gender sensitive education, equality in the decision-making process in political and public life, the removal of violence among women, international policy and cooperation, and finally institutional mechanisms and methods of implementation. The most important newspapers are contained in the introduction of a new programme area dedicated to international co-operation, which includes measures to implement the Communication Strategy for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU as well as measures to improve women in sport. A new measure is important to strengthen the local level, i.e. mandatory county assemblies and county committees for gender equality, to adopt one-year action plans for the implementation of the County Strategy. In view of the experiences that have shown that most of our citizens and citizens do not know that gender discrimination is punishable or adequately familiar with anti-discrimination legislation, the implementation of permanent campaigns with the aim of raising awareness of mechanisms of protection against gender discrimination, which requires and strong media support. I will also mention that it is envisaged to introduce gender equality in the general section of the national expert exam with the aim of education of civil servants and officials, to introduce gender equality education in civil education and education curricula, measures to promote women's employment in the information and communication sector, and measures to increase women's participation in the membership of company supervisory and management committees in the public and private sector. The draft document was attended by a working group appointed by the Government in which representatives of state administration bodies, civil society organisations, county commissions and the Advocate General's Office for Gender Equality participated. After agreeing to the position of members or members of the working group, the final proposal for a document was submitted to the public debate and forwarded to all ministries which gave their observations, which, as well as some proposals from NGOs, were incorporated into a document which is now before you. The implementation of the strategy is responsible for 30 holders and 40 co-owners of measures, including state administration bodies and other state bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, and a significant number of measures will also be implemented in cooperation with civil society organisations. Finally, as regards the material basis with which the implementation of these measures accounts, I note that all bodies are obliged to provide funding from the state budget and the budget of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and to include them in their annual plans and plans for each of the following years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77857	Thank you, Vice President Uzelc. Let me point out a small one, but not perhaps such a insignificant fact. I think the Vice President is the first man to represent national gender equality policy in the House. I think women have always done that before. Thank you and congratulations. You broke through the ice. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? Furio Radin, on behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77858	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In the debate, this National Policy proposal to promote gender equality for 2011-2015 in the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities in the debate, the Committee members agreed that it was an extremely high-quality National Policy Proposal for the Promotion of Gender Equality, which continues on the previous four strategies. It has been pointed out that, in the area of promoting gender equality and eliminating women discrimination, significant developments have been achieved, as confirmed by the European Commission in closing Chapter 19 on social policy and employment. The role of the Government's competent office in promoting gender equality outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia has been particularly praised, especially in the most significant international organisations which play a role in the affirmation of gender equality policy except at national level and at the level of municipalities, cities and counties. It was also noted that over the past period, with the help of the offices to promote gender equality policy, a significant number of civil society organisations have been engaged, which included a large number of volunteers, thus gaining a promoted policy at its breadth, and it has been pointed out that such a trend should continue. The proposal has also been made to consider changing the name of the proposed policy in a way that leaves out the word promotion since the whole set of proposed measures also refers to preventing gender discrimination and achieving women's rights in those areas where they are highly sub-represented, such as the processes of political and public decision-making or in a more unfavourable position in relation to members of the other sex, e.g. segregation on the labour market, lower wages for the same work and difficult professional progress. It also points to the need for more direct monitoring and problem-solving of disabled women, especially those mothers with children who are not provided with adequate support services. And within that category, a single mother and children who have no support are particularly in a difficult position. It is proposed that the measures proposed should take account of the deadlines envisaged so that they do not go unwarranted. It also draws attention to the importance of providing the necessary resources in local and regional authorities and self-government to ensure the quality implementation of national policy in the part relating to the implementation of measures from their work. It is recommended that the adoption of the next state budget take into account the provision of sufficient resources in the positions of the ministries in charge of implementing the proposed national policy in order to avoid earlier situations in order to implement measures that require high amounts of funds in budgetary positions to be planned. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a national policy to promote gender equality for the period from 2011 to 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77859	Thank you, Agent Radin. We're starting a debate. First on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77860	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Madam Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So I will start by saying that the SDP club will support the adoption of a new National Policy to promote gender equality for the period 2011-2015 as one document which is therefore the fourth in a row and which essentially shows that we need such policies, so those who have so far been this policy which is now. As a club, however, we have certain objections. I don't think we need it, and we don't think we should look at it uncritically, regardless of all the difficulties that we have, clearly, that when it comes to gender equality policy and all that it carries with it and certain legal solutions and implementation, so all the problems we face together when it comes to implementation. What I want to say at the beginning, as a SDP club, we have submitted certain amendments, so I ask the Proposer to consider them before voting on the final text. First, as far as the name of the national policy itself is concerned. In fact, on the Committee on Gender Equality, but also on the Committee on Human Rights, it was noted that after so many years, it was time for this national policy to change its name and stop using the term to promote gender equality, which reminds us so little, now we're going to do flyers, share flyers, walk around explaining to people, wear banners and the like, I apologize for speaking this little cartoonally, but I think it's quite appropriate after so many years that this national policy, we suggest that it bears the name National Gender Equality Policy for the period 2011 to 2015. I think that's how we all go together, and we go our separate ways, and we take this kind of step forward when it comes to gender equality policy. Secondly, as one general observation that we have as a SDP club, which is that we believe that here and after so many years this national policy is still too burdened by a series of general measures. So somehow we're still inclined to put in some of the measures that are generalized and that we're seeing again over a number of years, we're promoting, we're going to consider, we're going to mark, we're going to systematically carry out promotion activities, we're going to point out the need, etc. So, we would also like, as at the SDP club, that these measures that are much more mandatory than they are now formulated thanks to, above all, to everything that has been done as much as we have been satisfied or not in the past ten years. Furthermore, reports on the implementation of the policy so far and the analysis of the implementation of the policy so far, so this national policy every two years will be evaluated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Competent Office for Gender Equality. He'll file a two-year report. We all know there's a problem in collecting materials for such a report. What has now happened is that the practical Implementation Report for 2009 to 2010 was over, so I would say at the same cabinet session when it was also a proposal for a new national policy or was a very small period when, therefore, a report on the past national policy was discussed and a proposal for a new national policy. So, we think and continue to argue that there is still a lack of analysis of the effectiveness of the measures that have been, which are in the most part implemented, say the ministries and the competent state bodies, which have been partially implemented in one part, and in one part have not been implemented. So that part of us still lacks not only understanding about this policy. Today we are talking about national gender equality policy rather than afraid that we are missing it in a number of other policy strategies and so forth. So it's like we don't have time to do that kind of analysis. And finally one of the generals, that's an observation about the funding. True, there are two reports one for the first two years of 2006 and 2008, the second for 2008, which still cannot be seen until the end of how much money was spent on implementing this national policy. And somehow it seems to me that if the competent ministries, institutions and so on deliver reports on the implementation of certain measures, I don't think it should be a problem to also write down how much of the funds that have been spent from the state budget. Because here you know exactly what they're saying is some extra funding. So here in that part we still don't have and we won't have in this way a clear picture as much as we're going to say this way we're willing to spend and invest in this kind of policy by showing how important such a policy really is to us. What we have from the report is visible in numbers, it's about somewhere slightly less than 400 million kuna in the last four years, spent on gender equality policy. It means about 100 million a year. When you put this in comparison with the budget of the Republic of Croatia, which represents all very well you know how much it is, over 120 billion kuna, it turns out to be less than 0.1% of the funds that are spent and everything that is written in gender equality policy. Maybe it's enough for someone. Unfortunately, I'm going to say that it's not enough as we don't think it's enough and, in fact, it kind of coincides with what's being spent on gender equality programs on the world level. Because the UN Women's Agency's report recently came out at the UN, which showed that out of the total amount of funds the UN uses on various programmes, 0.7% of the waste on gender equality programmes when we look at the world globally. We think it's still very, very little. So we stand for the full transparency of finance when it comes to this national policy. It is a lack of all other strategies and policies. But we believe, so yes, because it's possible, it's definitely possible to calculate. Now that I'm not going to repeat, since the Deputy Prime Minister has said who they are, so all the areas this new national policy is dedicated to. However, we want to point out some, which we still find insufficient. First, no more separate chapters on female health. We think it's a drawback. When it comes to women's health, it is only within the chapters to promote human rights of women and gender equality where it is mentioned that raising the quality and availability of health care for women and girls who, besides, are said to be related to the prevention of early detection of malignant tumours, are said to raise the level of knowledge and awareness of types of sexually transmitted diseases, and to improve measures to preserve female reproductive health. We believe that this is a step back from what it wrote in the previous national policy, the more measures that have not been implemented in this national policy. The report provided by the Ministry of Health did not explain why these measures primarily relate to the reproductive health of women and sexual rights of women. Why? No explanation was given in that section at all. And we, with our amendment on behalf of the club, suggest that at least in this way it measures 153 that will improve measures to preserve women's reproductive health, that this, we propose, will be complemented, and promote the understanding and need of the protection of their reproductive and sexual rights. So, we consider it unwarranted that a whole special chapter relating to women’s health in the first place has been thrown out, and we would like to warn that women’s health cannot be tied to reproductive health alone, but that in the past we had a policy, special attention should be paid to and explore women’s mental health primarily and given the burdens on work, stress, labour abuse, mobbing, etc. It is no longer available, and the measure has not been implemented in the manner in which it was to be implemented. What is in this Chapter – Human Rights Women are positive and we welcome, and that is why there is an emphasis on the implementation of anti-discrimination laws and the Law on Gender Equality, especially through the education of systems and lawyers, and we welcome the introduction of gender equality exams in the State Expert Exam for trainees. Also, when we speak, I will return to the moment of women’s health, of course not going anywhere to commit or to work to introduce sexual education within the framework of health education at school. This gives up, i.e. only talking about raising the quality and availability of healthcare for women and girls and only saying will raise the level of knowledge of types of sexually transmitted diseases. So maybe for thinking, maybe in some future we can do something more in that part. In this section, we also have two measures concerning women in rural areas. We think it's absolutely too small, but the only thing we welcome is that now there's no more mention of a choice for the most prominent woman... We believe that the choice was only further buried to say women in the patriarchal frameworks, unfortunately still present in our village. As far as equal opportunities on the labour market are concerned, the Attorney General's report for the past year tells us clearly that there are the biggest problems in that part, and if there is a particular discrimination, then it is on the labour market. However, we do not see from these measures here that some major shifts will be made and welcoming some newspapers, such as the European Equal Pay Day, unfortunately we are not satisfied with the measures that are envisaged, especially in the part that is being talked about harmonising family and professional life. Because, to put it this way, by carrying out activities to promote equal distribution of household and family obligations, these are rather principled and non-binding measures that, unfortunately, can only lead to a rise of 0.3 or 0.4 percent of our fathers using, say, parental leave in four years. We think it's too small, too small. We can say, look, it's a small step from 1.5 now we've come to 1.8% of our fathers, but we think it's too little. We also welcome in this new national policy special section relating to the LGBT population. We think she belongs exactly in this national policy. And we welcome the new area that concerns women in sport, but we are warning and in this sense we have given amendments, we are sorry that this final proposal of national policy is weakened in that part in relation to what was at the public debate because it has obviously been omitted in certain institutions, whether it is the Ministry, whether it is the Croatian Olympic Committee or someone else, so that some of the things that we believe could have led to the first increased number of women in the management structures of sports organisations and alliances. Second, which in a much more appropriate way would punish, or sanction, the perpetrators of possible violence against women athletes. That's what there are, some of us met directly at the clubs they run. And it turns out that everyone washes their hands afterwards, that there are no sanctions by the sports alliances, and there are not even after the powerful verdicts. So here, in this respect, with all the remarks we have, with the amendments we ask to pay attention to and ask the promoter to see the possibility of their adoption of the SDP club will support, I stress, national gender equality policy. I hope there's a consensus around the name at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77861	Thank you very much, ma'am. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77862	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Director of the Government's Office. So here's how it is, I would only correct one incorrect quote, and that's when fellow Sobol talks about the lack of this national strategy and that it's a lack that these are general measures, that it's an observation, an apparition, a recommendation. Well, I wouldn't say that's a lack at all, but I would say that this is a positive one. This is the 4th National Strategy, some EU countries have none, and in view of all these recommendations, apparitions and all that is done through 4 national strategies, so here I will just say one small, one small digression – let's say that violence against women has been removed, this is an abandoned measure to combat domestic violence since we have a national strategy against violence against women for the period 2011 to 2016. So it is incorrect to speak in a negative context about these matters in the national strategy because all of this has led to some legislative regulations that are excellent and new national strategies. Here, that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77863	Thank you very much. The next club is the HDZ club. In the name of the club, respected representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77864	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Government, the President of the Government's Office for Gender Equality, fellow Members and colleagues. The HDZ Club discussed a national policy proposal to promote gender equality for the period 2011 to 2015. This national policy is indeed the basic strategic document of the Republic of Croatia, which is adopted with the aim of eliminating discrimination between women and the establishment of real gender equality through the implementation of equal opportunities policy for the period 2011-2015. It shall be adopted under the Law on Gender Equality, Article 18 and the programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take over and implement the acquis of the EU, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights of the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women, the Convention of International Labour Organisation, and the Beijing Declaration and Platforms for Action. This is the 4th national policy that emerged after an analysis of the report on the implementation of the previous national policy. We can say that this government has done a lot in this field. Institutional mechanisms have been strengthened at national and local level with important laws adopted so far in this Croatian Assembly. From the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, the Law on Protection against Family Violence, the National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence, the Protocol on Family Violence, the Labour Act, which contains provisions to prevent discrimination based on gender in the field of labour and employment. For many, this National Policy seems to be less pages than the previous ones, and precisely because many of the provisions are contained in these adopted laws in the Croatian Parliament. However, despite good legislation, 63% of citizens do not know or think gender-based discrimination is not legally punishable, and only 12% know that we have anti-discrimination law. Based on an analysis of the wide-ranging working group and the public debate conducted before us, a very high quality national policy proposal to promote gender equality for the period 2011 to 2015. The national policy proposal contains an introduction, a legal basis, a comprehensive assessment of the situation, a strategic framework for the implementation of the equality policy, an action plan and a final provision. The most important indicators of women's unequal position remain in their unfavourable position on the labour market. The difference in gross wages is 10.6%, sub-representation in the process of making political and working decisions, the frequency of various forms of violence against women including domestic violence with the persistence of gender stereotypes. In the labour market there is a broad application of the contract at a certain time for the female part of the working population, women are mostly in the textile industry and catering, commercial services, education, public administration, social activities, social activities, etc. At this point, the share of women in entrepreneurship is about 30% and the marked trend of its growth. The Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship shall implement the project entrepreneurship of women based on annual operational plans of incentives, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. However, the larger the company and has higher incomes, the smaller the wife is the owner of the company. In micro-enterprises, 31.8% of women are owners of small businesses 18.8% and only 12% in the mean. The operational plan to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises for the current year will ensure and purposely increase the funding of women's entrepreneurship. In the Republic of Croatia as well as other European countries there is a continuing trend in increasing the education of women, the proportion of women with master's degree 51.1%. The share of women with doctorate is increasing, 50.1%, but they are sub-represented in computer science study 15%, engineering 27%, architecture and construction 37%. Men are highly sub-represented in education-related studies 8.15%. In the assessment of the situation, an analysis was made of the political participation of women at local level, in the Croatian Parliament, in the area of combating domestic violence, other forms of violence, gender equality in the media, etc. It is indicated to monitor and address the problems faced by women with disabilities. The action plan shall contain 20 objectives and 93 measures within 7 programming areas. In the HDZ Club, the debate highlighted a newspaper of this national policy, such as the commitments of the county parliaments to bring and implement annual action plans for implementation of the local strategy. In fact, the practice so far has indeed shown the inequality of the funds that the commissions received from the county budget. The campaign to familiarise the public with anti-discrimination legislation is scheduled to increase women's participation in political and public decision-making. The subject of gender equality is introduced in the general section of the national expert exam, it is envisaged to promote women's employment in the information and communication sector and to introduce measures dedicated to improving women's position in sport, by encouraging the increase of women's share in the management structures of sports associations and other sports organisations. We must be aware that there is also violence in this area of which Mrs Sobol spoke. I do not think that this should be particularly highlighted in this Strategy because this is about violence in all areas. Sportsmen will ensure equal availability of sport infrastructure at the time of use and quality with the availability of professional training and employment in sport. Finally, part of the national policy is dedicated to international cooperation, which includes measures to implement the communication strategy for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. We must conclude that with all that has been done so far as the present 4. Indeed, national policy is at the level of other European countries, and we are not giving up. The report shows that most of the measures taken by the national policy so far have been implemented in 80% of the cases. Despite what it seems to us, there is always a lack of funds from the budget. Finally, the HDZ Club supports the adoption of 4. National policies with the desire to really further empower women as well as the implementation of policies and action plans listed in all these 7 thematic areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77865	Thank you. Now it's the HNSU Club and the esteemed representative of Danica Hursa.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77866	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government with an associate, colleague and colleague. National policy to promote gender equality for the period 2011 to 2015 is based on the aim of removing discrimination against women and establishing real gender equality by implementing policies of equal opportunities through 7 key areas. They've already been mentioned, but they're the foundation of this national policy, so let me count them again. Promoting human rights of women and gender equality, creating equal opportunities in the labour market, improving the application of gender sensitive education and education, balancing women and men's participation in political and public decision-making processes, removing all forms of violence against women, promoting international cooperation and gender equality outside Croatia, and further empowering institutional mechanisms and methods of implementation. The 2008 Gender Equality Act extended the basics of the ban on discrimination in the field of employment and labour introduced a system for elections at all levels, improved the area of judicial protection against discrimination and established an independent body to combat discrimination in the field of gender equality, redefine and extend the powers and part-time work of the Advocate-General for Gender Equality in line with the obligations to take over EU property and for the first time legally defined the role and status of the County Commission for Gender Equality as bodies in charge of law enforcement. Since then, a significant shift has been made in removing the unequal position of certain segments of the female population and a number of measures have been implemented aimed at raising public awareness of gender equality. However, Croatia still faces the permanent challenges of faster overcoming the gap between equality de facto and the equality of deura and the removal of structural causes of imbalance. And the main indicator is the unfavourable position of women on the labour market. Sub-representation in the process of making political and public decisions, the frequency of various forms of violence against women including domestic violence with... gender stereotypes. The most important goal in achieving full equality is to improve the position of women in the labour market given their difficult employment and lower wages as well as the different forms of discrimination they face in employment and professional progress. The strategic framework for the implementation of gender equality policy and the action plan consists of 7 areas that I have listed. It is important to bring those areas to life, for this is the only way we will get to a higher level of gender equality. What I want to say at the end on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, is that we also support a change in the name of the document. Just like my colleague Sobol noticed, we miss it. Every new strategy every new document implies some kind of inventory of the past period and that's what's missing and it would be good if we got an insight this time. The question of women's health also want to return to this national policy for the reasons of colleague Sobol, I will not repeat it. And the question of sports and violence in sports is that and that should also be discussed that needs to be made aware. But I'd like to raise the question of sports and sports funding here. I am sorry that we have so far been unable to hear the report of our Croatian Olympic Committee which is just talking about this issue of funding from local to state level. The report shows that everything is fine in the beginning at the level of small pixels, when it moves to a higher level, there is an obvious gap between women and men's funding. The Croatian Olympic Committee's report clearly speaks with its figures. I'm also in favour of the HNS club, HSU, that national policy will take care of the problem in the next period. The HNS Club accepts and supports national gender equality policy between 2011 and 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77867	Thank you very much, ma'am. The correction of the incorrect allegations has a respected representative, Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77868	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, it's incorrect that we have no insight into the national policy implementation report we have part of the government, and we have part of the prosecutor's report on gender equality. So I'll tell you that, for example. The Ombudsman wrote in the section of women and health, since the national policy measures to promote gender equality for health in 2006-2010 were to be implemented for 2010, says all measures in the section of the woman and health have been implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77869	Thank you very much. The last registered club is the HSS club. Honored representative Mariana Petir on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77870	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives and deputies, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, office representatives. This is the fourth national policy to promote gender equality that we are discussing in the Croatian Parliament. the Office for Gender Equality, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on the obligations of the Law on Gender Equality in charge of national policy making and implementation. The national policy proposal contains the legal basis for adopting, assessing the current situation, which analyses the implementation of the current national policy with the highlighted achievements and the challenges identified in promoting gender equality and empowerment of women. The strategic framework for the implementation of the policy and action plan consists of a total of 93 measures in 7 key thematic areas and we have discussed in the HSS Club with special interest the national policy proposal to promote gender equality for the period 2011 to 2015 and we will support its adoption. We must point out that despite the progress seen, it would still be advisable that in one place, and that is precisely this national policy we have an impact analysis with all the measures so far taken in national policy, as well as the development of individual measures, but we do not consider it an insurmountable obstacle. The improvement of gender equality and the prevention of violence against women are rightly recognised as one of the key segments of population and development policies and other European countries. Unfortunately, though, domestic violence is still widespread and concerns that a growing number of women face the risk of sexually transmitted infections as a result of the high - risk behavior of their partners. Therefore, women's health deserves special attention also within this policy. Although Europe is the world's largest donor of official development aid and in some European countries there is no adequate access to education and information on reproductive health and family planning methods. As a result, many women still die in Europe today because of complications in pregnancy. In 2006, the Republic of Croatia adopted a National Population Policy which recognises the importance of family support such as maternity benefits and child benefits, as well as the harmonisation of family and business life, with an emphasis among other things on ensuring full gender equality. In order to improve the health care system of the mother and child, the Republic of Croatia also adopted a National Plan for the Rights and Interest of Children from 2006 to 2012. It has been established through these documents that the system of health care for mothers and children will, among other things, improve and set up family planning and reproductive health counselling centres, as well as encourage the development of health care programmes from the area of child and youth reproductive health protection for children, parents, teachers, educators and healthcare professionals by implementing the Health Education Programme and education on the prevention of sexually transmitted diseases and unwanted pregnancies. The position in the HSS Club is that the protection of reproductive health of women as well as young people is ultimately important because of the society itself and its future development, and therefore seeks decisive action to reduce the risk of once again in the HSS that abortion cannot be a method of contraception, i.e. family planning, as is the case in Croatia today. When we talk about gender equality, I want to point out that they are one positive rule of law, and the other is a reality that we women in politics live and feel every day. Mechanisms that would encourage greater involvement of women in political life exist. However, the fact is that although they account for more than half of the population of women, they remain sub-represented everywhere where important decisions are made, as well as in politics. When we mention it, they object to us having a wife, the Prime Minister, which we certainly commend and support. But it is certain that more women should get a chance to involve themselves in making decisions. With less than 5% of the participation in the 1990s, women in the Parliament today are at 22% and therefore seem to be making progress. But sources in 2007, we can say that they were a kind of defeat because women received only 18% of the seats, and 22% of today's seats were raised when men went into executive power. In the executive government, the situation is even more dramatic. And at local levels, the situation is the worst, because women's participation is only 11%. The explanation for such a bad situation is the problem of harmonising business and private life, which makes the specific position of the woman unfavorably affecting the creation of opportunities for career progress both business and political. In the field of labour and employment discrimination is still strong and women are in a much worse position. During job talks, women are discriminated against on the basis of marital and family status. They wonder how many children they have, if they intend to have children and get married, etc. Women still make up a higher percentage of unemployed, rather in less paid places, have fewer pensions. The share of women in top executive positions is still below 10%. The higher the hierarchical ladder, the smaller the women, although in the higher percentage, graduate from the colleges, the details of which my colleague Caparin from HDZ spoke. Of course, we don't think at the HSS Club that women should deal with politics just because they're women and because the party on the list needs a certain number of women, but above all, we think that being a woman should not be an obstacle to stronger political engagement. One of the reasons why more women should be actively involved in politics is that they break their prejudices with their ability and perseverance, and give human face to the warmth of politics. Our female way is as valuable and desirable as male because there is a reason why we are different and differences should not oppose us, but they should complete us because in this society live both men and women and it must be measured by both. In several discussions so far, I have pointed out that women are excellent managers and this shows their daily organization of family life, caring for each family member, and they rarely do so. The fact is that reconciliation of business and family life is a large enough task, including the active involvement in political life, seems to be too much for some women to bite. But women have always been generous and willing to sacrifice themselves for the sake of others, and at this point Croatia is looking for the best that we can give it, and certainly what is best for women in the country that I especially want to apostrophe here. It must not be forgotten that rural women are a pillar of humanity. They make up more than a quarter of the world's population, and their contribution to food production is immeasurable. Village women are the backbone of agricultural labour in most parts of the world, produce 25% to 45% of gross domestic production and participate with more than half of the world's food supply. In the developed world, they carry out a third of the agricultural business and, of course, most of the household jobs. Unfortunately, half a billion rural women are poor and without access to resources and markets. From women's rural entrepreneurship in Croatia come numerous traditional products, organic food, fruit brandy, liqueurs, cookies. The interesting combination of keeping the tradition of economic awareness and smart design of time are objects produced by women in the country and therefore deserve stronger support from all levels of government in Croatia. In the proposal for this document, we at the HSS Club find the over-emphasis of LGBT persons and the extension of the thematic area of the promotion of women's human rights to gender equality and the obligation to involve LGBT persons in the commission to create legal solutions. In practice it happens that LGBT people who are in the minority actually want to prescribe by law what most of them should even think about them, which is what we have seen in Croatia in the past few days. And the real question is who protects most in Croatia and who protects the rights of the majority in Croatia, who protects the family in Croatia as defined through the centuries, through tradition and as defined by family law. At the HSS Club, it seems to us that the family that needs the most protection in Croatia and that it is precisely the most vulnerable because it is on the wind of economic and political disasters. So this strategy, in the opinion of us in HSS, should also have recognized the family as the basic unit of human society, as the first school of human relations, as the place where you learn to be human. When the family in Croatia comes first, then everything else will be in the right place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77871	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. First reported is Honorable representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77872	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister of the Government's Gender Equality Office. The proposal for a national policy to promote gender equality is the same as the name he's wearing right now. I don't think he's good at it. So I think an adequate name would be the national policy of gender equality. So, not only would I leave out the promotion, but instead of national policy to promote gender equality, I would place gender equality. Furthermore, I think the public debate on this proposal was too short, not full for two weeks. This is one strategic document that is brought with ambition to eliminate the causes of discrimination against women in society who, we all know very well, very hard-core. Once worded, this document has the ambition to change Croatian society, and half of it is made up of women. The debate should therefore be in my opinion longer and truly public, so in the true sense of the word of the field. On the other hand, although this is a strategic document is nevertheless general, the pre-evaluation still remains too much to promote, promote the idea of gender equality, organise discussions, round tables, mark certain important dates and similar actions. Of course, such forms of action are both necessary and important, but I think that we should really go further, a step further from promotion, should go on concrete proposals, especially those related to the change of legislation, as if there were still no conditions for changing the law more strongly. Because the laws are, of course, provided that they are consistently implemented, the most effective way of changing things on the ground, and the areas that cry out for such changes are indeed terrible, from the problem of rural women, through the problem of equal couples to the inequality of women in the labour market, violence against women, etc. I'm going to start by myself, I think it's fair and correct, so from women to politics. It is a worrying fact, and here is a colleague, Petir, spoke about it earlier, so for years now, during several last election cycles, the share of Croatian MPs has not changed or at least has not changed more significantly. There is an even more devastating situation at local level, so there is still not a single woman in her representative bodies in the local environment every fourth unit of local self-government in Croatia. So I repeat, no woman. There are no women where the fate of budget money is determined, where living conditions are determined, and women are about the same as men were involved in creating this budget money. I'm afraid there's this one status quo, that standing in place. It's like we've reached some ceiling and still can't. So here we can really talk about that, or apply that expression to the glass ceiling. And the Law on Gender Equality did not, at least as far as politics are concerned, prove too effective or willful because sanctions for non-compliance with the Law on Equality are symbolic. So these sanctions are symbolic. But if it were to change this law on gender equality in a way that all electoral lists that do not satisfy the 40 percent representation of women are rejected as invalid, that change would certainly penetrate the glass ceiling I was talking about. Furthermore, I would like to say something about the measures in this policy. The measures, in my opinion, are generalized, some of them very difficult to implement in practice. I'll give concrete examples of that. Let's say measures 2.4 aimed at empowering women's entrepreneurship, which says: women's entrepreneurship in the county and local environments will be actively encouraged. I am really wondering how it is active, what it actively implies in the units of local and regional self-government. Keep going. The deadlines for the adoption and implementation of certain measures are too long, especially when considering the fact that some documents have been working for years, and some documents have civil society associations and really do not need to invent hot water. And I'm going to make an example of this. Therefore, measure 5.1.4 is one of those which will remove all forms of violence against women, which says: all relevant institutions will also be distributed the Protocol on the treatment of sexual violence. The deadline for the implementation of this measure shall be 2011-2015, i.e. the deadline for the implementation of this national policy. I wonder why it's such a long time when civil society associations, here's exactly why they already have almost that kind of protocol and offer it up for adoption. And in the end, I will say something about what I am particularly sensitive to, so in the proposal for this policy, there is not a word about the introduction of health or sexual education in school even though it is indeed daily confirmed that this is a dry need. Are we going to have a more drastic confirmation than that there were even eight pregnant women in one of the Belarusian high school this year, two 15-year-olds, one of whom didn't even know she was pregnant, she wasn't aware of it. In fact, it should be no wonder if it is taken into account that women's health in this policy does not have the status of one of the priorities as was the case in previous national policy, although actually the goals of women's health in this previous national policy have not been fully achieved. So I think that this national policy, given that this is already the fourth in a row, would have to be significantly more concrete, significantly more operational in order to be an effective instrument for achieving the goal, and the goal is that women, in the shortest time period, so not in the next hundred years, participate in creating Croatian society to the extent that its component is, so that they must accept this policy as their own, therefore not as our female, so as their own, as our fellow male colleagues, so the MPs in this House do not accept it and vote for it with a fig in their pocket but to be true and fair. And not only that, but that they are actively passing it and that they are actively living that policy on the ground. It's not good when women tell themselves what they should do, what they should do, and those who actually decide to do it to the greatest extent possible, who have the money to say they accept that national policy but with a fig in their pocket. That's why I'm joining what the Vice President of the Parliament said after the opening part that Mr. Taker brought out. So, it's a good thing that he was talking about it, and I'm saying it's a valuable step towards what I've been saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77873	Thank you very much. The correction of the incorrect allegations has a respected representative, Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77874	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister and the Honorable Director. Well, colleagues like this. I disagree, and I find your statement incorrect when you say the laws are best for change. I disagree, and I find it incorrect especially when it comes to this Law on Gender Equality. I think these are exactly the kind of strategies that this fourth one points to, the one that educates, teaches and guides. That's what my colleagues came from. Now I'm going to list you two, four, five, six laws relating to equality. There was a protocol and a national strategy. So, I disagree and it's an incorrect claim. And a couple of other co-workers. I'm sorry that in your presentation this isn't a correction to the incorrect assumption, but it may be, you mentioned a school where 15 minors are pregnant. You've hurt or eight, you've broken the law first on some data, and secondly, did you think those eight pregnant women were placed on a pillar of shame? Yeah, you said school. You shouldn't have said that. You never say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77875	Thank you. The next in line for an individual debate is a respected colleague, Karolina Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77876	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Government, the lady head of the office. You've been called different here and referred to by different names, presidents, directors. You're the head of the office, and that's enough talking about it, that we don't even know what mechanisms we have and what they're called, or who's in charge of them and what are really functions. I'm glad we have a chance today to talk about a new national policy that I will, of course, support. But like some of my predecessors, I will also express dissatisfaction with certain parts of it and perhaps point to what might be done in the future and otherwise, so I will improve. In any case, I join all those who have already appealed or suggested that this new national policy for the upcoming period be expelled or left out words, so to promote gender equality and that, in fact, national policy is called national gender equality policy. I think it's a very important and very good remark that I hope the Proposer will adopt. Otherwise, with great attention, I actually follow the work of the Government Office for Gender Equality and given the activities that the office has, and especially given the library and one interesting publishing activity, I must say that I expected maybe a lot more in this policy and perhaps a much more progressive solution than the ones I had the opportunity to read here. I think that the community that is interested in this, so especially NGOs dealing with the promotion of women's human rights, may have been expecting in the fourth national policy and some solution that would indeed show that the Republic of Croatia has made significant progress on this plan in the past eight or more years. First of all, I would like to say that I find it amazing that today only in mid-July we are discussing a national policy that actually has a period from 2011 to 2015, which means that in some ways we lost the first six months, since the proposal for a national policy was delivered to the Croatian Parliament as it stands here in an act of 1 July 2011. So, a few days ago, I'm curious about how the national gender equality policy was actually implemented in the first six months of this year, or what it was founded on. Because the previous policy must have expired on December 31st 2010, and as we can see, we're only bringing a new one these days. I hope, therefore, that such things are not only related to this national policy but also to other strategic documents will not be repeated, and we often witness that we are discussing these strategies in fact somewhere when they were already to be implemented fat. As counterpart Jelash mentioned, there was no thorough public debate. It lasted only a few days first, and then, on a proposal from NGOs, the deadline was small and extended. However, I do not think it is good for such strategic documents and policies to be discussed during a very short period of time, although civil society organisations have had the opportunity to participate, and in many discussions they have had the opportunity to make their comments. I think there's one bitter taste left after such a brief public debate. I also believe that national policy needed to show even a little more detail and insight into what the Republic of Croatia has done in the past period in this field. So much more detail than it was done here. And to see in some ways what measures have been achieved, what activities have been achieved. And to move on from these initial positions. It is not good that only recently a report on the implementation of policy in 2009 and 2010. I think it should've been done a lot sooner. So, certainly not here a few days before the debate or after the conclusion of the debate on the new national policy, since it is not quite clear on why these new measures and new activities for the national policy are being adopted over the next four years. So, national policy is filled with expressions like will be monitored, monitored, encouraged, accounted for, promoted, and so on. I believe that these expressions and those verbs also say that this is not an active approach in my opinion. And it is absolutely certain that many of these measures that we can welcome, unfortunately, will not be realized because it is a major four-year period, which is therefore very broadly defined and that it is mainly about an approach that may in some way be supervisory, control, and is not proactive to say so. Many measures in this national policy have further received only one sentence, and I will mention as some of my predecessors, for example, the health of women spoken of in only three activities and that is here, so on page 28. 1.5 So raise the quality and availability of health care for women and girls. I think that is not enough and I would like to appeal that if we can therefore put in place some more measures, and if it is not, then certainly under such broadly defined measures and activities, it is indeed not only women's reproductive health but also women's sexual health. Furthermore, when it comes to education, I would like to warn you of measure 313. – it is an education for gender equality. It is said therefore that it will be an integral part of the girlculum of civic education, with the deadline of implementation in 2011. So I would really ask to be explained how and when an education for gender equality will be introduced in the girliculum so even this year. What also bothered me is measure 232. which speaks of encouraging the organisation of pre-school child education in companies and business organisations in public and private ownership. I think it's a social segregation attempt. So it's about, I guess, kindergartens, mangers in business entities in large companies. I absolutely oppose this concept in which workers' children will segregate and go to some special kindergartens, not in public or public-funded pre-school education. So I would like to appeal that this measure is certainly not being implemented, and I think that since many measures have not been implemented properly in previous national policies, it will not be a big problem. What really concerns me the most or the most surprising thing here is the measure under number 73, comes at the end of this national policy, and it concerns the birth budget and it surprises me precisely because the Gender Equality Office has issued an extremely important manual of the Council of Europe which is just talking about gender-aware or gender-sensitive budgeting. But I can see that there was no regrettable echo in this national policy. Namely, gender budgeting or birth budget is still in Croatia in some way a mental noun, both at the state level, so at the level of the state budget, and especially at local and regional levels. This is very little being said, so I would like to say to this occasion that I believe that this measure should have been a measure, so at the beginning of the national policy or the one from which all the others originate. It should be said that the birth budget, it is not a special budget for women, but is based on the premise that budget revenues and expenditures are not gender neutral and therefore I believe that, given that there is no example of good practice in Croatia, here we may in some way have missed the opportunity in this national policy just to focus on a more gender-sensitive distribution of public income and expenditure and actually one democratic approach to budgeting, and then spending budgeting. If we have already failed to put this somewhere on top of our priorities, I certainly appeal to take a little more account of what the birth budget is in the next period. And I would like to commend, of course, the Attorney General's Report on Gender Equality, which is partly called upon by this national policy. It would be much worse to call out more, but despite all the remarks that I have, many of them have failed to even say in a short time, I will, of course, support this national policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77877	Thank you very much. Now we have one correction of an incorrect quote and three replicas. Correction has a respected representative, Carmela Caparin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77878	Thank you very much. I'd like to correct a colleague who says, or I think it's incorrect, says there's one bitter taste left after a public debate. I think it is really incorrect because in the public debate there were NGOs, all representatives, and in addition, after a certain part of it was extended and extended to the Committee of the Advocates for Gender Equality, it marked satisfaction with the public debate in which everyone participated and to accept the objections made from this public debate. On the other hand, it's incorrect that there's nothing in national politics about women's sexual health. I think that's where it says that if I'm not wrong about reproductive health, about sexually transmitted diseases, and you have other diseases at the health ministry level and other national programmes regarding women's health.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77879	Thank you very much. The first replica, representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77880	So you're right to tell your colleagues that this national policy was expected to be more proactive. We have a lot, we have a national policy, we have a number of strategies, we have conventions, and here we see our next point, that is, the final point in this session will be the proposal for a decision on the appointment and termination of the mandate of members of the National Health Council. So we will see how these topics are still for us, therefore, issues of women's rights, are still a question of political tourism where it is spoken only at a certain time afterwards. Now, you'll see, the candidates who have achieved the most in their careers that could have been achieved, what are they saying to themselves? When they were at lower status, they were both leaders and co-workers, as soon as they reached higher stages of transition to malehood, so the titles were regular professor, to write to themselves, so they were an extraordinary professor, so they were scientific assistant, doctor of medical science, she was a master of medical science, a graduate engineer, she was a headmaster, not a headmaster, she was an extraordinary professor at the Department of One and then an extraordinary professor, etc. Therefore, they do not respect, or are still aware of it, and even with judges who decide on such issues of discrimination and equality, no one will write it at the door even though it must be written by the Law on Gender Equality, the judge writes. The debate was about it, and so was the case with these citizens of our academics who feel that they will reduce her position if she is said to be an extraordinary teacher, that she is the head, etc., etc. So, all in all, we didn't make it. Or those people who have the most scientific titles. However, it encourages our workers to be aware, even of Kamensky's workers, they didn't say I was a worker, they said they were workers. They took the bread into their own hands, now they're overqualified, and now they're therapists. I think a lot of people can learn from them. It's sad, but it's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77881	Thank you very much. The answer to this replica has a respected representative, Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77882	I agree. So, language is one of the most important or most influential instruments of the Patriarchate, but what is important is, in fact, now that you have spoken about who is appointed to different state bodies that unfortunately we in the Assembly too often name gender-inequate bodies, and I hope that in that sense, measures or activities of 412 will be respected, therefore, to make sure that the renaming into state bodies and bodies of units of local and regional self-government and other legal entities with public authority takes care of... the non-availability of both sexes. Too often we're not in a position to do that, we have a lot more members of one sex than the other it's certain that women, as we see here according to the data available to us qualified to take such important positions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77883	Thank you very much. The second line has Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77884	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Leakovic, we all know very well that Mrs. Radin is the head of the government's office. That's one thing. And secondly, now I'm going to say, I don't understand in all these discussions here on the right, except for Mrs. Ingrid and I agree with her in what she said about writing titles, I don't understand why you're so bitter and against this strategy. Is it because it was adopted a strategy from the government office where the head of the woman, whether because the President of the Government of Women, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, I know that you are having a hard time saying it, but that is so, whether because she is not aware of all of us women yet has reached that there must be this female solidarity. Is it because through these four national strategies that we have crystallised the laws that we have, just before, my colleague Caparin spoke of them, whether because the Prime Minister supported these laws and the national strategy empowered women in such a way that today's maternity benefits for women who have a high professional standing have their full salary for 6 months, whether because an unemployed woman receives maternity benefits, is this all negative that came out of this national strategy? It's sad to know that, we've had several meetings within their women's organisations in HDZ and believe that we've learned and promoted very much and it's not embarrassing to say promotion, it's not embarrassing but it's very important. And I agree with my colleague Ingrid when he talks about how we ourselves should warn women that we are magistrates, lawyers, and the rest of us will be much more appreciated. We were at a woman's political presentation and about what you said 40% on the lists, yes. But which one of us wants to be a percentage. She wants to be on the list in that 40%, because she deserved it. Because she deserved work, knowledge and pawnage, so she could get a chance to get in there. But that consciousness is just being promoted through these strategies, and no law will be able to do it except the consciousness of itself and the others around us.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77885	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of MP Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77886	My colleagues didn't even refer to you when I said here that some colleagues and colleagues don't know what Mrs. Stimac-Radin's function is, but you've recognized each other. So, please don't talk about female solidarity because the Prime Minister has shown solidarity with the Kamensky workers. I asked her a representative question that she did not answer in the way she was expected to. Therefore, on female solidarity, please be my guest in your party's debate. The SDP or myself will personally support this national policy but that does not mean that we have to applaud everything it says and that we cannot point out what might be better, it does not matter who proposes it. So it's a national policy that applies equally to us both represented and sub-represented is called the National Gender Equality Policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77887	Thank you very much. The third replica is Gordana Sobol's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77888	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I just wanted to do another thing by agreeing with you in this section on the promotion of education and education organisations, where in preschool institutions, these preschool institutions are being opened in commercial societies, business organisations, public and private ownership. Otherwise, the implementation report on the last national policy did not implement this measure, the measure was absolutely not implemented within 4 years. It was not implemented for the reason that, in my understanding, it was related to another measure that was written in the past national policy, which is that certain tax reliefs will be introduced to companies that open kindergartens within their space. I also personally disagree that kindergartens are being opened inside some companies, because it is then additionally tied by women and men, so mothers and fathers can stay at work until any time, there is up to 7 or 8 hours because there is a child in that kindergarten reaching their hands, so in that sense, and that is a matter of discussion because these discussions are being held. But therefore, this is one of the measures that she has put into this policy but without that other measure, so the other measure that has not been implemented and the Ministry of Finance has clearly said that it will not do so, it is not possible because it causes certain other difficulties in general in the tax system itself. Unfortunately, I, too, have observations, and I believe that this national policy could have been better, could have been without such measures as have otherwise proved inconclusive in the past period, which does not mean that I will not vote for it, which does not mean that I am bitter or that I am negatively inclined towards everything that comes from the government. We've all been dealing with this problem too long, the problem of gender equality, so we can't afford to be critical, but that doesn't mean we won't accept such documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77889	Thank you very much. Let's go to the next debate, it's a debate between Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77890	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Madam President of the Office, colleagues and colleagues. I'm very glad that today's presentation of this National Strategy Man, our Deputy Prime Minister, was the case that the first speaker was in the name of Club Mr. Radin again a man, but I must also mention here that this year, for the first time in Dubrovnik, at the opening of the summer games of Gundulić's departure, was performed by women, for the first time in the history of summer games, that she played women. Here, so much we managed to promote whether or not to change that name to promote, not promote, yet we managed to promote something. My discussion will be very brief and I will rely on the comments, or observations of the participants in the public debate, or representatives of NGOs. I must say that I welcome the organisation of a public debate in the adoption of this key document as a very important process in the participation of civil society organisations and the decision-making of public debates. However, their remarks were too short, given that many important participants were not even familiar with the beginning of a public debate that was initially presented, as I received, only on websites. This national policy is being upgraded to a previous national policy, however, in which the public concerned does not have enough information because a full report for the entire policy implementation period is not available to the public. Why do I say that? There is no evaluation to show to what extent the objectives set by national policy have been achieved because the evaluation has not been carried out. Unfortunately, as well as previous national policies, even the new national policy does not provide for indicators that will be able to assess the effectiveness of the implementation, and neither are the mechanisms for monitoring the evaluation which will also make it impossible, in the end we wonder whether, at all, to what extent, this strategy is implemented. When we talk about an action plan, it is said that the action plan contains key activities and measures according to the priorities of thematic areas of action. However, there is no explanation of why the focus on these areas was chosen, and what they are related to the analysis of the situation. Today they're colleagues, here I was counting, almost all colleagues mentioned the same health of a woman and it's not clear why there's actually been a redefining of priorities. Taking into account the measures taken by national policy last year in the field of women and health and according to the data available over the past period, the objectives set and these were to reduce the frequency of sexually transmitted diseases, raise levels of protection and maintain health at work, in particular the mental health of women, improve measures to preserve female reproductive health, etc. have not been achieved. As a result, we believe that the area with the appropriate measures should be included in national policy this new year 2011-2015. Furthermore, it is not clear on what criteria the area of women and health is included in the thematic area of human rights promotion. Although gender equality and empowerment policy have been adopted at the highest state level by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament, it is not in fact visible from this policy whether and how appropriate financial resources are provided, my colleagues also spoke of it. Some national policy measures constitute the implementation of other strategies or plans that contain measures related to gender equality, e.g. measures 211 will improve the position of women in the labour market in accordance with national employment action plan measures for a certain period. However, this principle was not consistently implemented throughout the national policy, but part of the strategy was mentioned as an integral part of the strategic framework in the introduction. I therefore see no reason for the employment action plan to be highlighted, for example, as a separate measure when it is not already other strategies and plans. As I have already mentioned, part of the measures is too general and lacks methods of implementation. This refers in particular to measures that are the holders of institutions, whose gender equality is not necessarily a focus and lack knowledge in gender equality. Therefore, we believe that a more precise definition of measures would significantly facilitate their implementation, for example. The issue of gender-sensitive language is proposed to be an integral part of measure 711 which means regular seminars for civil servants, officials for their education and, of course, more effective implementation of regulations and tasks in this gender equality policy will be held. Next, measure 215 will promote the employment of women in the information and communication technology sector, etc. However, it does not explain how it is implemented and should explain whether this is about scholarships, campaigns, subsidies, etc. or something else. It would also refer to 726 and this will analyse media content for the detection of frequency and type of birth stereotypes, and here it would emphasize that women in the media, unfortunately, are now being shown more and more as stereotypes, which implies that a woman as a human being comes down to an ordinary object of predetermined stereotype values. Unfortunately, we have witnessed that the body of a woman in the media presents itself as a sexual object, especially in commercials, I have not known how long ago and spoken in this Croatian Assembly because it is said that the female body in the alusion of sex is all selling which is complete... all other values of a woman as a person. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And also in the media very often a woman is shown as a clothing hanger, or a face for cosmetic preparations. Here, these are actually short observations, and of course I support and accept this national strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77891	Thank you very much. The correction of the incorrect allegations has a respected representative, Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77892	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, one more time I have to make it right, I guess my colleague didn't hear my previous correction to an incorrect quote. It is incorrect that the last national policy has not been done, what has not been completed as regards women's health. In the report of the Advocate General for Gender Equality, you are pointed out that all measures in the Chapter of the Women and Health have been implemented. What you are now criticising is that there are no further women and health but also the vice president pointed out that it is not mentioned because it was carried out in other ministries, so you have at the Ministry of Health a screening and prevention of uterine cancer, breast cancer, bowel cancer, bowel cancer. In addition, you have a programme of health care measures. The government carried out a national strategy for the protection of mental health from 2001 to 2016. I see no reason to repeat this again in national gender equality policy. And as for what you stress that measures are general, so I can't be different if it's a national policy proposal, and in addition, you have a carrier and a deadline for implementation and action plans I don't know what this national policy should do anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77893	Thank you very much. Next up is the esteemed representative Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77894	Dear Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, Madam President of the office. Here let me do the same very briefly without repeating myself, and since I am the only man I think who with the Deputy Prime Minister spoke about this subject, then let me say first that I support the document that has been proposed to us here. I will not repeat everything more than what is said and good, and let me say that I will not say bad than what should improve that document that sets out the frameworks in one of how to call it the whole behaviour of a complete society in the field of the Republic of Croatia that this document as a national policy will be even more quality not only in a substantive sense than I would like to be both concrete and constructive as much as it can be concrete, given that it is a national policy, although I would prefer it to be called a national policy of gender equality. Why? Because with this document we determine I will not say behaviour, nor will I say obligations because it is difficult to say obligations but everything that needs to be done in all fields in the area from legislation to overall behaviour so that equality policy or gender equality or gender equality is at an even better level. It is about one area that is one constant, one constant that through the overall development of society and the overall organisation and life and work and community etc. We need to seek to achieve it at an optimal level, or to complete equality. I am aware that this equality is complete and that it will take a longer period of time to reach it. But what I would like to say is that some of the measures and the particulars are already in the strategy not only as a principle of what one should do but also, according to me, there should be certain deadlines and direction for the mechanisms how in which way the entire inventory is then there when we do it for 4 years as we did now for the previous period so that we can say what is specifically done on a particular segment. What I'm saying is that definitely in order to reach a level where we're trying to get an accent in that section, I think it's important to give it up for education, to raise it from children and beyond. This is what we need to say all the time because it needs to be implanted in some way. It's hard to say instill but raise new generations in a way that respect for equality and equality is an integral part of life. These are the most important roles of institutions, but from preschool education, schools and all that means not only institutions but also organisations engaged in any part of education, gathering and organising children from schools to sports social organisations etc. Because these are exactly the places where the most qualitative shifts can be achieved in the long term. What I'm trying to say is normal what we have to have today, and these are legal regulations. In every regulation we must have the elements contained and I must say that we already have one set of legal regulations or laws and regulations that govern. However, I do not believe that it has been done enough to specify certain measures but also in that part of non-compliance or sanctioning non-compliance with the obligations arising from all these legal obligations relating to gender or sexual equality. Unfortunately, sanctions are an integral part and that's why sanctions exist. Therefore, it should be in most parts and sanctioned non-compliance. I'm aware it's hard to fill them multiple times because we have one sequence, so it's hard to make a big move overnight. However, with such a national policy, I must say that I support it because it is always a step forward, it can also lead to a more high-quality engagement in that segment. Someone mentioned before the Parliament and the assembly of parliaments, etc., we cannot resolve it by decree, but that is why we are all called together as public workers, who are involved in politics, it is one broad spectrum to strive to achieve what we have given ourselves and this strategy, or policy that we have in 4 years. Therefore, what I am committed to is raising an act and all arrangements through institutions that raise new generations, and I am also committed to concreteising as much as possible. Here we have somewhere in one section says that regional (regional) or local self-government will be adopted and measures taken, etc. I wish it were more concrete that no matter what it is, the document that determines the frameworks, but it stems from the obligations of all then after every segment starts from me and all the further that we all act in that every action in the daily, public life and influence on what we have and the adoption of regulations at the end of the Parliament to make sure that we do so in order to reach that level. I won't mention everything that applies before you said to women's health, although when we talk about it we think about all the measures that need to be taken. We've mentioned education before, and we're going back to school. So these are the places that we have to talk about because fortunately the future is in a new generation that probably if we do the accent there and give our full attention in that part, we can get long-term results that the overall satisfaction in society is all sexes and that there is an equality that will be satisfactory for us, the whole world tends to it, the whole of Europe, etc. Someone more, someone less. Well, we'll hold on to what we have to do. Therefore, I support this with all these adjustments that my colleagues have said can be done in order to make a better and better document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77895	Thank you very much. And here's instead of commendation for including in the debate you got one correction of an incorrect quote and one replica. Here's the first respected representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77896	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to correct a colleague who says that in his debate it is not done enough to specify the measures and then talks about education. It looks like you haven't read this national policy because on page 33, 34 and 35 you are now talking about concrete measures on the removal of stereotypes, the introduction of gender-aware education and education into the entire education system. A new teaching standard will be adopted to raise the quality of gender-sensitive education, ethical and language standards of textbooks, national framework curricula, training standards. A system of education on gender equality for holders and holders of the educational process will be implemented, sexual balance will be achieved in the selection of education areas in secondary schools and higher education institutions. So you can't say it's not concrete. And as for gender-sensitive education on these two pages, it's really all concrete.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77897	Thank you very much. And the replica still has a respected representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77898	Thank you. Well, colleague Dino, I actually support your thoughts about gender-sensitive education but I keep thinking about what has been done so far and how many measures have been and in past politics in some way continued in almost the same form in the new national policy. The question is, how long have they been going through our education system so far? So I'm recently in one of the debates, and it seems to me that it was about the attorney's report, and I've asked what kind of generation we're raising, or what kind of generations we're raising, or whatever you want. What is positive with these measures relating to gender-sensitive education and what I particularly welcome is the education of those who work with our children, what is said from the earliest age, but also with the final and higher education of education on issues between others and gender equality. And it bothers me terribly that nothing can actually be done when you say the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, among other things, when talking about any shifts that would go towards the objective of systematic removal of gender stereotypes which actually moved and whether something had moved within the ministry, it says, is supported, the assessments they give in the report are general and flat-rate because it supports gender equality in an appropriate way. It doesn't mean anything to me, and it still remains unclear to me, no matter how I support the measures that are being taken here, how and how our education system will follow. And I especially warn that, as a club, we have given the amendment relating to measure 3.1.2, where it says that in the process of assessing the compliance of textbooks and related teaching resources with the national framework curricula and the teaching standard, expert commissions will point to the need to remove birth stereotypes. So I think what we're going to tell them is that they need to get rid of it. No, it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77899	Thank you. Replication time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77900	We suggest that such textbooks and additional teaching aids are not put into circulation, so that they are not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77901	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Coslevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77902	Yes, dear fellow Sobol, that's correct. When we say that measures should be concreteised, then I do not think that measures are not built into politics. The measures are therefore in place, and as you said, there are measures that we are constantly building on. However, I wish we had specifically valorised the implementation so far, the situation so far, satisfactorily, not satisfactorily, there was a shift, there was no shift, therefore we were valorizing. And what is the situation and that we cannot be satisfied in the final statement also tells the Ombudsman's report on gender equality and other mass of examples that we have the opportunity to see and hear that there is room to improve, to specify what needs to be done and how to do and then to valorize what has been done. What you said specifically for the example of the textbook is not enough to say that we are going to do it, that we are going to make a concrete measure of what should be and how it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77903	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for discussion on this point so that the final review on behalf of the motionor will now be given to the respected Vice-President of the Republic of Croatia Free Downloader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77904	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives and MPs. Let me first of all thank you all for your attention, which you and your clubs have given to this subject. Of course, I thank those who have expressed their support unreserved or with a reserve, anyway. I would especially like to thank those who have raised criticism and in this sense make a contribution in terms of improving this text from the perspective that the edge of your criticism may be large, but not far from as big as we have to do, all the work we have to do to remove this actually civilization stain that the modern world has in relation to more than half of the inhabitants of our Republic of Croatia. And from that perspective, and with that consciousness, we accept your criticism, and you don't need to apologize in any way because you're directing them, I would say yes. However, a brief further clarification of your proposals regarding the need for concreteisation of certain measures such as measures in the section or area of women's health. Indeed, in the nearly 10th strategy of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the measures are far more concrete than they would be possible here in the text that already, as you can see, has hundreds of pages. But what's important, just to remind you, is that these measures were mentioned there and that the water from there was caused, just to remind you, I don't know if you noticed with the United Nations commended our country for the program, for example. HIV prevention in that ministry and the results of these measures, which is one of the measures in that chapter. Okay, maybe we can also make a combination, maybe we can see some of what we can put into this general document, but in any case, the problems you're talking about are not forgotten and they're being elaborated there. As for the concrete application for clarification by the distinguished representative Leakovic concerning education for gender equality in the part where it is said to be, it will be an integral part of the curricula for civic education and education. The clarification goes in the sense that this curricula is being produced these days and it doesn't say here, we didn't write that we think it should be. We say there will be a very concrete statement in this document on the basis of one strategy along the way, perhaps an additional answer to fellow Sobol MPs. Strategy on systematic education on human rights which has started since this academic year at all Croatian and public universities, and following the conclusions of the Rector's Congress since last year, when each university self-initiatively assumes that, in accordance with its own composition, organisation and needs, it will find the best model to start with this education. Of course, first of all, with the education of teachers and teachers as people who would carry it on. And finally, by now, there have been amendments that I've had a chance to see. Among them is this amendment regarding the need for a change in the name of the document. I can say in advance that he is acceptable not to the name itself but also to everything that that name carries with it. It is a clear desire that the name reflects all the width of the document, not just the promotion, and that is what we certainly accept. We'll accept as much as I can now say from my feet and most of the other amendments, but more specifically about it tomorrow. Thank you again for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77905	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I hereby conclude the debate on this National Policy Proposal and we will vote on it when the conditions are met, and I hope it will come tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77906	We move to the National Policy Proposal to promote gender equality for the period 2011-2015, the motion for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Slobodan Vec, to make a statement on the amendment of the SDP Representatives Club relating to the name of the policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77907	Thank you. The amendment shall be adopted in a way that the amendment adds a word for the final name of the document to: Proposal for a national gender equality policy for the period 2011-2015. In addition, accepting amendments to this small correction also means a logical obligation to enter this title into the entire text of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77908	SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77909	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77910	Accepted in this statement. Thank you. Moving to Amendment 2 to measure 1.5.3.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77911	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77912	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 3 to measure 3.1.2.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77913	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77914	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 4 to measure 4.2.1.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77915	The amendment is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77916	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment five to measure 511?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77917	This amendment cannot be accepted. The proposal to say, "It will be considered" the adoption of a convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and violence in the Council of Europe family will be replaced by words it will not be accepted because the procedure for adopting the Convention is in a procedural sense complex and demanding process due to the binding nature of such types of international contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77918	Mrs. Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77919	Well, the intensity of this amendment went with one piece of knowledge, which is that Croatia did not, therefore, have any reservations in the adoption of this Convention in relation to the Convention as well as the text of the Convention itself. And it would be logical that, in particular, the adoption of the convention should no longer be considered, but that it has already expressed its view that the convention would be accepted so that I would still ask it to be a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77920	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And Amendment 6 of the same Proposer to measure 517.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77921	And this amendment is accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77922	It becomes an integral part of the bill. I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. I am voting on the National Policy Proposal for the Promotion of Gender Equality for 2011-2015. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? National policy to promote gender equality has been accepted by most votes, 111 votes to, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77923	There is still one item left for today's debate, and also for the overall debate in this summer session before the summer break, and that is - The final draft law on the validation of the Council of Europe Convention on the protection of children from sexual exploitation and sexual abuse, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 853. The proposer of the final bill is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed in an emergency procedure so that it unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Tatjana Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77924	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the honourable MPs and MPs. In front of you is the draft final draft law implementing the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse. This Law confirms the Convention itself in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse is drawn up on... on 25 October 2007 at the Conference of European Ministers of Justice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the Republic of Croatia, the Convention was signed by Mrs Ana Lovrin, then Minister of Justice, on 25 October 2007. The convention came into force on 1 July 2010, after five states expressed their consent to be bound by the convention. The Convention constitutes a legal framework for further upgrading of the legislative legal framework necessary for more effective prevention, i.e. persecution and punishment of perpetrators of the offences established by the Convention. It is also a legal framework to strengthen international cooperation with a view to preventing and combating sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children, protecting and providing assistance to victims, conducting investigations or proceedings related to the offences provided for in this Convention. The legislation of the Republic of Croatia is largely in line with the request of the Convention. However, in relation to certain provisions of the Convention, further harmonisation of the provisions on the collection, recording and storage of information relating to identity and genetic profile, i.e. DNA of persons convicted of criminal offences established in accordance with the Convention, will be necessary. I must say that two days ago in this House there was a draft criminal code in front of esteemed MPs and MPs. The new Penal Code provides for a whole new head that is now regulating the crimes of sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children. And I must say that the draft applies the convention, or it is absolutely consistent with that part of the Penal Code with the Convention. By confirming the Convention, the Republic of Croatia joins the efforts of the International Community primarily by the Member States of the Council of Europe in order to further formulate the country's determination to combat unacceptable forms of violation of the fundamental rights of children. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77925	Thank you very much to the secretary of state. Shall I see if the committee's reporters will take the floor? I guess not. Then I'm opening a debate. We're going clubbing. The first registered HDZ club, on behalf of the club, respected representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77926	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the distinguished secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children From Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse with the Final Proposal for Law. The Council of Europe's "Building Europe for Children and Children" programme, which includes fighting sexual violence against children's specific legal instruments and comprehensive activities to raise awareness on 29 and 30 November 2010, launched a Council of Europe campaign to stop sexual violence against children. The campaign aims to promote the signing, ratification and implementation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse, as well as to provide knowledge and practical solutions to prevent and report sexual violence against children, and thus raise awareness of the real proportion of sexual violence against children. It's still a taboo topic with us. Scientific research suggests that about 20% of children in Europe are victims of some form of sexual violence, and out of which 70 to 85% of cases are the perpetrator of a known victim. Most cases of sexual abuse occur within the family, and by individuals close to the child or his social environment. Sexual child abuse occurs in many forms, including incest, pornography, prostitution, human trafficking, child trafficking and sexual participation, and sexual abuse by peers. Children's mental health has been destroyed, trust for adults has been destroyed, and they suffer in such knowledge. The latest convention in this area is this Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse. It represents a significant step in preventing sexual violence, protecting children and punishing perpetrators. It is based on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and is the first instrument to address child sexual abuse regardless of who committed it and where. This law confirms the Convention in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia has already signed the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse, as we heard, on 25 October 2007 at Lanzarote in Spain and the Lanzarote Convention sets out the measures necessary to stop violence. The Convention constitutes a legal framework for further upgrading of the legislative legal framework. It covers the following main aspects: prevention and protection measures, assistance to children victims and their families, programmes or intervention measures for perpetrators of sexual violence against children. Crimes include some new ones such as recruiting, recording, data storage on convicted perpetrators of sexual violence, international co-operation, monitoring mechanisms aimed at ensuring the implementation of the Convention's provisions. Indeed, the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is mostly in line with the requirements of the Convention, but some provisions require further harmonisation. It is precisely that provision on the collection, recording and storage of identity and genetic profile of persons convicted of criminal offences established in accordance with the Convention. There are already certain laws with us, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Juvenile Courts, the Law on Protection against Family Violence, Probation, etc. In accordance with the Convention, the legal framework of legislation in the Penal Code has already been passed and we have discussed it in the first reading, as the Secretary of State has said, but what we must ultimately confirm is that the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and all of us are now joining this fight against the fundamental rights of the child that the child has, which is provided for in this Convention and all those documents that have been adopted so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77927	Thank you very much. The next club is the HNS-HSU club, on behalf of the club respected representative Danica Hursa.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77928	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear state secretary with associate, colleague and colleague. This bill confirms the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse signed by the Republic of Croatia on 20 October 2007, then a minister, today our colleague, Mrs Lovrin. In this act, the Republic of Croatia is entering a circle of those countries that make special efforts to combat unacceptable forms of violation of the fundamental rights of the child. The Convention constitutes a legal framework for the further addition of laws and legal acts necessary for more effective prevention, persecution and punishment of perpetrators of these offences. It is also a legal framework to strengthen international cooperation in order to prevent and combat sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children, protect and assist victims, conduct investigations or criminal proceedings established in accordance with the Convention. The Convention, along with the already prescribed criminal offences in this area, introduces some new criminal acts such as the participation of a child in a pornographic performance, deliberately bringing a child into a position to view sexual abuse for sexual reasons, etc. Furthermore, the Convention defines qualitative circumstances for sexual abuse of children. The jurisdiction of the court has been defined in a way that makes it possible to combat the sexual exploitation of children through tourism easier. Furthermore, a series of measures have been introduced to protect and support victims of sexual exploitation and abuse. It is defined that countries should allow the use of undercover investigators in these crimes. The creation of a database of perpetrators of these criminal offences, the introduction of intervention programmes for the perpetrators of these crimes, as well as persons who are afraid to commit this crime. In accordance with the Convention, countries should ensure that children in primary and secondary schools receive information on the risks of sexual abuse and exploitation and ways of protection. The countries are also obliged to raise citizens' awareness of the need to protect children and their rights. Amendments expected in the Penal Code or which have already taken place related to the provisions of the Convention must be a quality improvement of existing incriminations. The legislation of the Republic of Croatia is largely in line with the requirements of the Convention, but as already stated, there are parts that have yet to be brought into line with the provisions of the Convention. This includes the recording and storage of national data on convicted sex offenders prescribed by the provisions of Article 37 of the Convention. And here it is said that it will be implemented in a special law. I will also ask the State Secretary to tell us when and whether it will be so because she says in the 2011 Action Plan of the Government of the Republic of Croatia: "The only national body responsible for the management of the database in question on convicted persons for sexual offences at the harm of children and their genetic profile will be led by the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, given that even now this body is responsible for the establishment and keeping of criminal records of convicted persons." Sexual abuse of a child can be described as any sexual activity or behavior that can emotionally or physically harm a child and any sexual activity or behavior used by a child to meet the sexual or emotional needs of another person. Since most cases of child sexual abuse do not leave obvious physical evidence, it is often very difficult. Children are being harassed most often by a close family member, making it difficult for a child to feel sorry for someone because of a lack of confidence. There are no typical abusers or victims, and judicial trial is difficult without solid physical evidence. That is why the need for even more education and public sensitisation for the social problem is sore. One of five children is the victim of some form of sexual abuse and violence. It happens to children regardless of sex, age, skin color, social status or religion, the perpetrator may also be a child. It has been estimated that in up to 85% of cases, the abuser is someone the child knows or trusts. Sexual violence against children has different forms. From sexual abuse in the family, child pornography, prostitution, to exploiting a child for sexual purposes online, and sexual harassment by peers. The total number of crimes against freedom and morals committed to the harm of children and minors or minors in the period from 2005 to 2010 in the Republic of Croatia is 2483. It is very important that we do not close our eyes to this problem but to become aware of how common, serious, and widespread the problem of the whole society is and to always remember that one of the five children is experiencing some form of sexual abuse. Some sources say that children in the last 10 years have been victims of sexual violence in as many as 32% of reported cases. In 30% of the cases, the victims were minors aged 14 to 18 years. Unfortunately, the torture of the victim’s child does not always end with the discovery of the perpetrator of abuse. Too often children hide the victims of holes in the law and unqualityly coordinated or inadequately trained legal, social or health services. What everyone and the officials and relevant institutions and the general public lacks is quality education in this area. Because this one is very little organized, officials are not sufficiently referred to in all these problems so they just have to educate, learn and fight in an inadequate way with this problem. The big problem is the lack of cooperation between competent institutions. Sexual abuse of a child is clearly much broader than we can all assume, although estimates vary depending on the type of research, sexual abuse is thought to have experienced 1 out of 4 girls and 1 out of 6 boys. Many researchers believe that these figures represent only the tip of the iceberg, since most cases of sexual abuse are unknown because some children never discover that they have been abused and their cases never reach the social service, police, or judicial system. Because of the belief that child sexual abuse is a rare occurrence, child abuse statements are often ignored or rejected as fiction. The assessment says that every reported rape comes as many as 15 to 20 unreported. That's the data that disgusts every normal person. Finally, the HNSU Club will accept this proposal for a law with the conclusion that we regret that the Law on Confirmation of the Convention does not follow a law which, with a view to preventing and prosecution, criminal offences established in accordance with the Convention, implements measures to collect and store information relating to the identity and genetic profile of persons convicted of criminal offences established in accordance with this Convention which is the subject of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77929	Thank you very much. And the last reported club is the HSS Club on behalf of the Club, respected representative Stanko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77930	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. When we open the newspaper or watch the news or get information on the Internet, we are almost daily able to meet shocking headlines that inform us about child abuse. Although there are various forms of child abuse, the general public is particularly sensitive to sexual abuse, and in public and state institutions, many efforts are made to protect children in the best possible way from such events that, without a doubt, permanently mark life. The Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Abuse is another additional effort taken by the Member States of the Council of Europe to fight more decisively against unacceptable forms of violation of the fundamental rights of the child. It is not necessary to stress in particular that sexual abuse and exploitation of children are present today in all areas of social life, largely and to the extent that it is indeed high time to take very determined steps to change the existing situation significantly in favour of children. The Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse was drawn up on 25 October 2007 at the European Ministers of Justice conference. The Convention entered into force on 1 July 2010, after five states expressed their consent to be bound by the Convention. The Convention is also a legal framework with us in order to further build up the legislative legal framework necessary for the effective prevention, persecution and punishment of the perpetrators of these offences. It is also a legal framework to strengthen international cooperation, with the aim of preventing and combating sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children of protection and protection of victims, carrying out investigations or proceedings related to criminal offences established in accordance with the Convention. The Convention, along with already prescribed criminal acts in this area, introduces some new criminal acts such as participation of a child in a pornographic performance and deliberately bringing a child into a position to view sexual abuse or sexual activity for sexual reasons. Furthermore, the Convention defines qualitative circumstances for sexual abuse of children, including sexual abuse and exploitation of children within the family. Obsolete in accordance with the provisions of the Convention shall not run beyond the age of a child. It is also defined that countries should allow the use of undercover investigators in these crimes. The application of these offences must not constitute a breach of professional secrecy, the creation of databases on the perpetrators of these crimes, the introduction of intervention programmes for the perpetrators of these crimes, as well as persons who are afraid of committing this crime. In accordance with the Convention, countries should ensure that children in primary and secondary schools receive information on the risks of sexual abuse and exploitation and protection. The countries are also obliged to raise citizens' awareness of the need to protect children and their rights. The Proposer, in his explanation, states that the Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes, the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Juvenile Courts contains definitions of the offences of the sexual exploitation of children. Criminal provisions relating to the promotion, assistance and attempt of the perpetrators of criminal offences, criminal sanctions, the extension of the time limit of limitations to prosecute the perpetrators of the crimes in connection with the sexual exploitation of children. These rules are, in the most part, in line with the EU Council Framework Decision. The comparison of national legislation with the convention in question and the above-mentioned framework decision assesses that the Croatian regulations governing this issue already contain provisions of the Convention to a large extent and some in full. However, some provisions of the Convention will require further harmonisation, such as provisions on the collection, recording and storage of identity and genetic profile data. Since, for the most part, the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is in line with the requirements of the Convention to stress that the smaller part but not less important is not in line with the provisions of the Convention. The registration and storage of national data on convicted sex offenders prescribed by the provisions of Article 37 of the Convention will be implemented by special law. The Government of the Republic of Croatia also planned for 2011 with its action plan to establish the database of perpetrators of sexual abuse and sexual abuse of children. The HSS representative club welcomes the adoption of this Convention and the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the system which the Republic of Croatia currently has in the fight against sexual abuse is further strengthened, advanced and contributes to stopping and preventing new cases of sexual exploitation and child abuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77931	Thank you very much. No individual hearings have been reported. And now the final review on behalf of the promoter will have a respected State Secretary Tatjana Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77932	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I just wanted to thank all the representatives of the representatives' clubs for the debate and to clarify the fact that we are the three institutes of the Penal Code to say so, and we are working on a draft of a special law that will bring rehabilitation, criminal record and the legal consequences of conviction. What bothers all of us most is to say so, it's so-called. I'm telling the register of pedophile that's definitely going to be on the criminal record. Normally, we've stopped working on this bill until the Penal Code is passed as a fundamental law which then gives us the opportunity to make that law. And I hope that you will have that law passed on your benches in the fall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77933	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote on this final bill when the conditions are met. And so we came to the end of today's work of the Croatian Parliament. Tomorrow we still have to vote on the debated points and I announce the vote at 11.00 p.m., so I ask the representatives of the club leadership to ensure proper presence so that we can carry out the vote in order to conclude this session within the constitutional time limit before the summer break. Resume session tomorrow at 11.00 with a vote. Thank you. Good-bye to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-14-0.u77934	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 853, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse. Please, let's get involved and vote for confirmation of the convention. Score. This final draft law confirming the convention was adopted unanimously by 116 votes.
