ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68637	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and distinguished parliamentary representatives. These legislative proposals on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concern the implementation of transnational programmes of European territorial cooperation, the European Regional Development Fund, for South-Eastern Europe and the Mediterranean programmes. FOR cross-border programmes with neighbouring countries, not members of the European Union, Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Agreements on the financing of those programmes between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission shall be concluded for each year individually and signed on the basis of a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia of December 2010 approving the pre-accession programmes for 2009. In order for these agreements to be legally applicable in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to adopt laws on their validation. So far, the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission have concluded funding agreements for those programmes for 2007 amounting to 2 million 653,000 euros, and for 2008 an agreement of 2 million 706 thousand euros, totaling 5 million 359 thousand euros. 43 projects with partners from all over the programme area have been financed from these funds. The programme has developed a good network of cooperation and partnership over the entire cross-border area and beyond when we talk about the Southeast Europe and the Mediterranean programme. These agreements, i.e. the adoption of these laws, will allocate a total of 2 million 859 thousand and 61 euros, i.e. under the proposed agreements, the following amount: 800 000 euros for the cross-border programme between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia. A million euros for a cross-border programme between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. 400,000 euros for a cross-border programme between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro. And 659 thousand 061 euros for transnational programmes Mediterranean and Southeast Europe. I would particularly like to point out here that the use of these programmes so far has been more than 50% of the funds reserved, which sets out these programmes as a good and positive practice for other programmes co-financed by the European Union. It should also be noted that in all three programmes with non-member countries, the Republic of Croatia is a leader and serves as an example in the region with its experience and capabilities. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the adoption of these laws by emergency procedure in order to enable users from the programming area to carry out their projects neatly within time limits and agreed dynamics. In order to further strengthen cross-border cooperation and build even better good neighbourly relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68638	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Representative Marija Pejcinović-Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68639	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia started using the first cross-border cooperation programmes with neighbouring countries in 2003. In the beginnings when this area was covered by the then EU Intereg programme, the first experiences of the Croatian County and municipalities in cross-border cooperation were gained in cooperation with the then Member States, i.e. candidates for membership in Italy, Hungary and Slovenia. The grants that the Croatian side could use during this period were quite small, but they were also limited in financial and institutional capacities of Croatian partners. However, through these projects acquiring the necessary knowledge and skills are needed to use EU funds. Over time, cross-border co-operation has spread to other neighbouring countries, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, and Serbia as well. The first projects were only run in the second half of 2006. These programmes were initially provided for a relatively small amount, which in time proved to be an insufficient strategy, and the experience from the Interest affected the application of a different approach in IPA, where both candidate countries and potential candidates have the opportunity to use higher amounts of grants. Analysis of previous experiences has shown that the institutional capacity to use funds is better in counties bordering EU Member States than in those bordering other neighbouring countries. The reasons for this are different, and in addition to the fact that cooperation programmes with non-EU countries started later and that these programmes were more financially poor, and the fact that I so vividly say, the tango needs two, i.e. in addition to the interest and preparation of Croatian partners, the need for interest and preparation on the other hand of the border. The documents that are ahead give us quite detailed analyses of previous experiences, and the way in which different challenges have been met, as well as the amount of analysis that gives clear insight into what needs to be taken into account in the implementation of these new agreements. Since it is about programmes that involve the involvement of partners to so-called “partners”. The NUC3 level, which translates into a common language means the lowest levels at which EU-funded projects are planned and implemented, and which, on the one hand, are used in a direct and tangible manner to local communities and, on the other hand, prepare the whole country for the use of significantly larger funds and structural funds of the European Union. And now something, something about every cooperation program. The first programme is cross-border co-operation between Croatia and Serbia, for the financial year 2009. The main objective of this programme is to support the development of cross-border networks and partnerships, as well as the development of common cross-border actions to revitalise the economy, protect nature and the environment, and increase social cohesion of cross-border areas. The additional objective, as in all other similar programmes, is to strengthen and build capacity for local, regional and national EU management institutions and to prepare for future management and participation in the European Union's Structural Funds. The agreement was a cross-border programme between Croatia and Serbia for the period of this financial perspective, i.e. from 2007 to 2013. So far, two annual agreements have been concluded, and their implementation has agreed on 10 projects, while another one is expected to be negotiated by the end of this month. The tender for the submission of project proposals for a new agreement will be discussed during the first quarter of this year. The total value of the gift for the Croatian side is 800 thousand euros, while a small part will be provided by end-users and the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. The text of the agreement analysed previous experiences in cross-border co-operation with Serbia, and as with similar programmes, it concluded that there is room for work on cross-border cooperation projects to be improved. We hope that every new annual agreement will make a significant contribution to improving the institutional capacity of actors, who participate in the preparation and implementation of projects, and that the number and coverage of projects that will be implemented will be increasing. Four counties can participate from Croatia, and Serbia's 5 districts can participate. The general objectives of the programme are to promote cross-border cooperation in order to achieve diversity and improvement of the regional economy in a socially and environmentally sustainable manner, while at the same time promoting good neighbourly and cross-border relations. The specific objectives to be achieved by this priority, priority areas are multiple, from promoting business cooperation, increasing cross-border trade, developing labour market mobility, promoting tourism development, protecting and preserving natural resources in cross-border areas. The second agreement is on funding cross-border co-operation with Montenegro. In Annex 2 to this document, there is a programme of cross-border cooperation for the current financial perspective, and it sets out in detail what areas of cooperation are envisaged, and what experience from the previous period in this cooperation. I point out in substance that the basis for the observed shortcomings in previous periods has introduced improvements in the preparation and implementation of this programme. As far as the programme's objectives are concerned, they are largely identical to those of the previously mentioned co-operation programme with Serbia. In the implementation of the programme so far, two annual cross-border cooperation programmes with Montenegro have been confirmed, 5 projects whose annual value was the same as for 2009. Four hundred thousand euros. On the Croatian side, two counties can participate, with 10 municipalities from Montenegro. And the third cross-border cooperation programme is with Bosnia and Herzegovina. The total value of the gift is 1m euros, and Croatia can, from Croatia, participate 9 counties, while 95 municipalities participate on the BiH side. In the context of possible areas of funding, I would especially point out the improvement of quality of life and social integration. In particular, projects that can run in this area want to respond to social problems and environmental problems in border areas, with regard to reducing unemployment and reducing the departure of skilled labour. Further in the environmental protection sector, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina face the same challenges, on both sides of the border there are significant natural beauty, nature parks and rivers, but there is no coordination in environmental protection, e.g. through wastewater management, and there is no coordination in the event of natural disasters that we have had the opportunity to witness in some parts of Croatia recently, such as floods and fires. And in the end, although not only are minefields a common problem of the programming area. It is estimated that there are about 305,000 lags, and unexploded mines that need to be removed, covering thousands and 800 square miles. The fourth agreement we are discussing today is a transnational cooperation programme involving a number of countries that are geographically the whole, but are not necessarily neighbouring countries. This is about the programmes "Mediteran" and "South East Europe" which already announce with their names which countries can be included in these programmes. The programme is being conducted under the European Regional Development Fund, which will become particularly important for Croatia when we become a member of the EU, and then the funds available for this type of cooperation will be significantly greater. The main purpose of this programme is to establish and develop transnational cooperation through the financing of networks and measures leading to integrated development. Therefore, all Mediterranean EU members and Croatia, Montenegro and BiH are included in the Mediterranean and South-Eastern Europe programmes, and for the first programme while they are included in the second programme for the Southeast European countries. This 2 programme aims to make these areas more competitive through cooperation in the following areas: innovation, environmental protection, sustainable territorial development, increased mobility and territorial accessibility. The programme is intended for local and regional bodies, cities, research institutions, non-profit organisations, etc. 12 projects have been funded in the implementation so far for the 2007 and 2008 annual programmes, and another 3 projects under the "Mediteran" programme are expected to be signed. For the financial year 2009, 659 000 and 61 euros were allocated, and as is the case with all similar programmes, the largest part is the gift shop, while the small part is co-financed from national and local funding. Finally, it is about programmes that are useful and important for the Republic of Croatia. Above all, from the point of view of learning on how the European Structural Funds operate, in particular the European Regional Development Fund and the finding of partner bodies and institutions in other countries. Since territorial co-operation is important for resolving issues of common interest between the countries concerned and that one of the forms of preparation for EU membership will also support all four of those draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68640	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68641	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As always, the HNS-HSU club will support the proposal of these four laws. Laws that give us a direct and developmental opportunity, the laws that include us in the system of EU member states and, in particular, to highlight this package of legislative proposals, the territorial cooperation programmes with the Republic of Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and these transnational programmes are projects and programmes in which our special units of regional administrations of the county have shown their knowledge and their ability and this is one of the few pre-accession IPA programmes that have relatively good use. In the introduction, the secretary of state mentioned that for 2007 and 2008, we had 5 million and 300,000 euros, that we had agreed through the allocation of 21.01., we used 50.79%, which is an extremely good percentage compared to the other IPA programmes that we had already discussed. And we are quite certain and the attitude is, we at the HNS-HSU club, that one of the reasons why and why it is good use is that in these programmes cross-border cooperation are based on a public call to include the counties directly and there show their true value which may not be in the best quality and best way shown in other pre-accession assistance programmes, transport, the environment, regional competitiveness and that is one sign, one of the indicators that would be worth it when we talk about the decentralisation process to open this subject to these EU intermediations. And based on these experiences from the programmes and projects of cross-border cooperation to exploit and implement these other operational programmes. The HNS-HSU club will support this bill because this confirms a financing agreement and creates a legal basis for the use of financial resources as a gift for programmes in which the Republic of Croatia participates in the transnational EU programmes for 2009. These programmes operate through a grant scheme, the basis of a public call for joint project proposals from partners on both sides of the border and the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy is the implementing body to these programmes. The use of IPA 2 funds so far in cross-border cooperation with transnational programmes suggests that the Ministry's system as an implementing body and the possibility for the county to report directly to the competition is a good experience. And once again we underline the need for such a quality system to be applied to others possible, for other operational programmes from pre-accession assistance and for the purpose of making use of them stronger, we talked about it and it was said. And that there is a real danger that much of the funds of those in the pre-accession assistance programme remain unused, and what is particularly important and what needs to be highlighted, and that is something that is waiting for us through the funds when we join the EU. The next thing I want to point out on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Pensions when we talk about these legal proposals, which is that through this cross-border cooperation and the transnational programme, and specifically here, we are talking about the transnational programme of South East Europe and the Mediterranean, to encourage the improvement of the regional economy, to develop good neighbourly relations, to build up the ability of local and regional and national institutions and especially what is important is the system for managing future cross-border programmes under the third objective of the European Cohesion Policy, where the funds are significantly greater, the potential is significantly greater than this, because so far we have had for 2007 and 2008. 5 million and 300, with this confirmation of these legal proposals that we are discussing, this is a total of around 2.3 million euros for 2009. I do not think there is a particular need to read everything in it except to point out that legislative proposals have been made extremely high-quality especially in part of the analysis of previous experiences, and I believe that this analysis of previous experiences will be a good basis for changing everything that is wrong and everything that slows us down in the use of pre-accession programmes of specific operational programs of transport, the environment, and we have the biggest problems in IPARD and I hope that by opening up systems to regional administration units, above all, towards counties, municipalities, we hope that we will open up the possibility that the flow of projects and programmes and ultimately the use of something that has been given to us as an opportunity to use it and all in order to enable them to make full use of it. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Retired Party will support all of these four bill proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68642	Thank you. We have one correction, Ms. Marina Matulović Dropoulos. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68643	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So Mr. Representative said that only those projects go where the counties are, and more spend resources where the counties do their job, exploitation. I have to say that's not true because the county is doing all the IPA jobs, and they have contracts, county and their application companies, for making project documentation, they're reviewing competitions and they're doing this job, they're always countys and local self-government units, and they're doing all kinds of projects, and they're not negotiating in the Ministry anywhere, but they're contracting. Therefore, the use was also good there, with this program that you spoke about last time, which you now called for to last until the end of 2012, and we will certainly use those funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68644	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68645	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. We are before us a set of the draft law on the validation of the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on Croatia's cross-border cooperation programmes under the 2009 IPA cross-border cooperation programme, and cooperation with Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as participation in transnational programmes of the European Territorial Cooperation Fund for Regional Development of Southeast Europe and the Mediterranean. It is, of course, very similar, and in many details, identical programmes financed by the European Funds, in this case within the IPA 2 programme aimed at fostering cross-border cooperation between those countries and achieving those objectives. As already mentioned above, the general objective of IPA cross-border programmes is to promote the creation of cross-border networks and partnerships, and to develop joint cross-border actions to revitalise the economy, protect nature and the environment and strengthen social cohesion. Of course, the additional objective is to build capacity for local and regional and state-owned institutions to manage European programmes, and to prepare for the management of future cross-border cooperation programmes within the Structural Funds of the European Union. In particular, the achievement of those objectives stimulates a number of activities such as the development of the economy directly involved areas, i.e. counties, which are in the border area as well as neighbouring counties to which this cooperation may have an impact. It also encourages environmental awareness on environmental protection issues, encourages greater mobility and participation of the population, encourages the building and training of institutions in the management of European Union funds as a preparation for the arrival of structural funds that will be much more abundant and interesting for the Republic of Croatia after entering the European Union. The cross-border cooperation programmes with Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina directly cover the Croatian side of a total of 10 counties, namely for Croatia and Serbia's 2 counties, for Croatia and Montenegro's co-operation with one county, and Croatia's and Bosnia and Herzegovina's 9th counties. In doing so, it should be said that the two counties of Vukovar-Srijemska and Dubrovnik-Neretvanska are covered by Croatia's cross-border cooperation with two neighbouring countries, Vukovar-Srijemska with Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Dubrovnik-Neretvaska with Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. Of course, I repeat directly except for these 10 counties and neighbouring counties can have the effects of using these funds. Today, through these four programmes that are subject to these laws, we are talking about a total amount greater than 5m euros for 2009. The cross-border cooperation programmes, except for these three with three targeted countries through the transnational cooperation programme, include a large number of countries which are jointly linked to the geographical membership of Southeast Europe and the Mediterranean, where it is not necessary to border but share common interest as they are located in the same area of Europe. Croatia's cross-border cooperation programmes with neighbouring countries include priorities and measures described in two priorities and five measures for Croatia-Montenegro's co-operation is within two priorities and five measures, and BiH's co-operation is three priorities and six measures. Regardless of the number of priorities and measures, it should be said that the key priorities in all three programmes are to create conditions for the development of the economy in a sustainable environment and to ensure technical assistance for the management of the programmes. In the context of priorities, the creation of conditions for the development of the economy highlights measures to promote interaction between entrepreneurs in cross-border areas through which a faster and more efficient integration of economic operators in branches that are interesting for both countries in these areas, such as agriculture, food and other industries, as well as a particularly prominent tourism sector. Direct users of these measures are non-profit legal entities established to meet the need for general interest such as regional and local public bodies, professional chambers, clusters acting as non-profit legal persons, research development institutions, educational institutions, health institutions, agricultural alliances and associations which also operate on a non-profit basis, etc. There are a number of activities that can be financed from these programmes. Some of them develop support services to improve business cooperation and joint marketing of small and medium-sized enterprises, then activities to find cross-border business partners, to participate in numerous fairs, conferences, joint databases, joint websites, exchange of study trips, etc. Then activities to develop cooperation between small and medium-sized enterprises, educational, research and development organisations to improve business innovation and technology. There are then joint projects of vocational education or adult education that can address problems and needs for specific skills. There are then joint marketing initiatives promoting local products and services that are very important for individual counties represented here. There is then an improvement in the knowledge and skills of entrepreneurs and the application of new technologies in marketing, promotions, etc. What is particularly interesting is that tourism is apostrophealed as one of the most important activities is to support the development of new tourism products such as the development of thematic routes, common promotional events and materials, joint exploitation of individual sites, etc. The second group is measures to promote awareness of environmental issues and its protection or management of the natural values of the environment, especially those of that environment which has an extremely high level of such value. These measures are also very important for the development of flood protection and other disasters, as well as cross-border pollution and other elements in the area of health which may be at stake due to the proximity of the border. We ourselves have witnessed that in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia there are such threats that can only only be dealt with by agreement, but through this programme projects that can solve such situations are also made possible. Waste management is very important in this respect, especially with hazardous waste. The programme encourages measures aimed at cleaning and restoring polluted areas. Direct users of such measures are non-profit legal entities established to meet the need for general interest such as regional and local public bodies, higher universities, research institutions, NGOs in the field of environmental protection and nature. Public companies responsible for municipal infrastructure and waste management, then agencies responsible for environmental and nature protection, etc. Many activities such as the development of joint management plans for protected areas, the preparation of common cross-border strategies and action plans for crisis situations with regard to natural hazards and environmental hazards can be carried out within this section. Conservation of biodiversity in certain areas that are in the common area. Common cross-border measures on the development of a municipal waste management system, joint cross-border studies, direct measures on the application of renewable energy sources, etc. The very important measures that can be taken under this programme are measures aimed at developing comprehensive contacts, as well as different forms of communication and cooperation between local communities and institutions within the cross-border area. In this respect, it is particularly important to support women and other marginalised groups, such as the unemployed, such as persons with disabilities, such as young people with their specific problems, etc. To ensure that such support is fully supported, the development of local democracy and the institution of civil society are encouraged. Direct users of such measures are legal persons who carry out legal activities such as legal counselling for marginalised groups that develop joint community building programmes with an emphasis on interethnic cooperation. Legal persons who jointly provide health services, then develop cross-border cooperation between organisations providing social care services, then legal persons who carry out various activities to raise awareness of the consequences of social exclusion and encourage cross-border networking of such organisations in the social field, in the field of culture, etc. In the context of the second key priority of providing technical assistance for programme management, certain measures shall provide technical support for the implementation of the cross-border cooperation programme, as well as information support for the evaluation of the implementation of the programme, which shall allow quality examination and valorisation of the effects of applied projects. And to conclude, however, cross-border cooperation programmes open up opportunities for self-government units, associations, institutions and other non-profit bodies in the border areas of Croatia which are on a daily basis, I would say a closer and simpler form of communication with local self-government units, associations and other organisations on the other side of the border to develop partnerships with related organisations on the other side of the border through certain joint projects. Since these programmes are very important for the development of border areas, but not just border areas, therefore those that rely on these border areas and that they are financially very favourable future grants and that they are already negotiated. This law requires that the agreement be confirmed. The passing of these laws will also support the SDP club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68646	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am informing the clubs primarily, of course, all MPs and MPs that at 12 o'clock we will have a vote on the points of the agenda that we have discussed and concluded and which we will further discuss and conclude, so I ask the clubs to make sure that MPs and MPs are present at 12 o'clock. On behalf of the HSS club Mr. Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68647	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here are the proposals for a law to confirm the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the financing programme for Croatia's participation in transnational programmes of European territorial cooperation, the European Regional Development Fund of South East Europe and the Mediterranean and cross-border programmes of Croatia and Serbia, Croatia and Montenegro, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina as part of the cross-border cooperation component, the IPA pre-accession assistance instruments for 2009. Agreements on the financing of those programmes between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission shall be concluded for each year individually and signed on the basis of a decision by the Government in December 2010 on the location of IPA funds for 2009. In order for the agreements themselves to become part of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to adopt laws confirming those agreements. So far, the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission have concluded funding agreements for 2007 amounting to 2 million 653,000 euros and for 2008 worth 2 million and 706 thousand euros. 43 projects with partners of the entire programme area have been financed from these funds. Here we can see through these 43 projects that this part increases from year to year. Maybe we can say that it's not enough, that it can be safe and much more, expecting that these laws this year will not only increase the number of projects in this part but certainly speed up that process better and better quality communication within these border areas. A good network of cooperation and partnerships has been developed throughout the border area and beyond, when we talk about Mediterranean programmes and the South-Eastern Europe programme. Of course, when looking at this cooperation, it is particularly expressed in those areas that were more covered by the war than those which were less covered. And it is absolutely certain that there should be a particular effort to make in this part that this cooperation is further improved both in human terms and economically, because connecting local levels of neighbouring countries can certainly contribute to a better and better life for people living in those areas, but it can also improve in economic terms and quality of life. Therefore, this part of the law certainly can make a great contribution to these areas. Therefore, we have no doubt that all those who are factors in this part will do their job in the interest of all of us. These agreements, i.e. by confirming these laws, will allocate a total of 2 million 859 thousand 061 euros, i.e. 800 thousand for a cross-border programme with the Republic of Serbia, 400 thousand for a cross-border programme with the Republic of Montenegro and a million for a cross-border programme with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and 659 thousand 061 for transnational programmes of Mediterranean and Southeast Europe. Of course, we can all agree that more money would be much better, but of course through these means can be opened and great space should be opened to all those who are interested. I say once again, and I repeat that in 43 programmes, I will rely on these means that are provided here, I can open up a space for much better and much more quality cooperation. The implementation of the financing agreement will require additional funding from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of co-financing of certain projects stemming from the agreement and in agreement with the European Commission. In order to enable users from the programming area to implement their projects under those programmes and further strengthening good neighbourly relations, these laws should also be passed, so I have no doubt that we will. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will certainly support these bill proposals, and we expect the Ministry of Regional Development to make further efforts in this section and, of course, I thank it and commend it in this so far which they have done without doubting that we will have even better effects in the coming period than this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68648	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Petar Mlinarić. He's gone. Then, Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68649	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State. I want to get involved in this debate and support all four proposals of the law on the approval of the agreement. Anyway, I don't think there's any club around here today that won't support these bill proposals. We know that the first proposals came in 2006, that they were relatively small amounts at the time, and that later on in the experiences of the Interga proved that IPA should be treated differently. The institutional capacity in the counties has proved quite high, and I can say that given last year when we discussed such similar topics, we said that administrative capacity in the counties, in the units of local administration and self-government was very low. Now it can be discussed differently and the county development agencies are already well teamed, and even in some cities and municipalities there are already departments dealing exclusively with this topic. So he made significant progress in administrative capacity and made significant progress in municipalities, cities and counties, especially in the border districts. I am talking about these four agreements, Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Mediterranean. What interests me particularly here is cooperation with Montenegro between Dubrovnik-Neretva County and Split-Dalmatia County and 10 municipalities in Montenegro – Herceg Novi, Kotor, Tivar, Budva, Bar, Ulcinj, Cetinje along with neighbouring municipalities of Niksic, Podgorica and Danilovgrad. In any case, cooperation is at the level of environmental protection, protection of tourist and cultural areas. Then, except for the protection of the environment, nature and cultural heritage. There are also small cross-border community development projects. The criteria are also very important, and this is mainly environmental sustainability. Then gender equality, meaning women and marginalized groups. It's mostly criteria. Then of course we need to have partners on both sides. Then building capacity for NGOs, and when it comes to this part between Dubrovnik-Neretva County and Montenegrin municipalities, promoting an integrated tourism market and in that part there are several projects and encouraging cross-border contacts at regional and local level. All this is happening on the basis of the strategic framework for the development of one and the other countries, the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro, and especially important for Croatia and for our county is the regional operational programme on which all these projects were actually created. The first IPA tenders resulted in a contract in almost 100% of the amount, given the location of the financial resources in the context of the calls for tenders. But since it was of an extremely high interest, even fivefold the resources available can be seen that the regional level in the Republic of Croatia is very well informed and prepared to report projects of which only a small number of the best, i.e. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council with regard to the application of this Regulation. Local self-government units with IPA applications, as we have already heard from the secretary of state, are learning to compete in the quality of the projects, thus preparing for a post-accession period and the absorption of the structural instruments of cohesion policy in the European Union. We have already heard that we are involved in six IPA cross-border programmes between Slovenia, Croatia, Hungary - Croatia, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Croatia and Serbia. And in two transnational programs, which are Mediterranean and South-Eastern Europe. So far, a total of 17 million and 2,000 euros have been agreed through the programmes, meaning 125 million kuna. In particular, as regards cooperation with non-member countries which are the subject of today's agreement, under the Programme of cross-border cooperation Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the total funds foreseen for the award of projects to end-users amounted to 3 million and 600,000 euros and 103 projects were accepted at the tender, of which 14 will be agreed by the end of 2011. And yet the percentage of the contract is close to 100%. In the framework of cross-border cooperation, Croatia – Serbia's total funds are estimated at 3 million 240 thousand euros, of which is a million and 440 euros for Croatia. The competition received 110 projects, 11 of which will be agreed by the end of January or should be completed. It's a percentage of 99%. Then a call under the Croatia-Montenegro Cross-border Cooperation Programme opened up worth a million 620000 euros, of which the amount for Croatia is 720000 euros. So far, 24 project proposals have arrived and five projects have already been agreed. The percentage of the contract is almost 100% again. I know that in Dubrovnik-Neretva County regional agency Dunea is working on these projects and that they are really well teamed up and that cooperation is extraordinary. I would also like to say that a joint secretariat working on these projects, whose headquarters is in Kotor, has been established. This is an excellent proof of cooperation because simply down in the Croatian south we have to cooperate and this is an excellent example. So the operational structures have agreed to establish a joint technical secretariat. He's got his own facility in Dubrovnik, but he's based in Kotor. That's what we gave, a sign of excellent cooperation. Given the good results of the first competitions in this cross-border cooperation with non-member countries, it has been decided that when the second competition is announced in late February, as I hear from the Secretary of State, the merger of these three IPA allocations will take place in all three programmes, which I think would be excellent and would result in even better results. In conclusion, I would like to say that Croatia is truly a leader among these countries, three non-member countries, that we will really learn how to function when we are in Europe, when we need to use real funds and that this is an excellent example for regional co-operation. So here also yesterday, the day before yesterday in this Strasbourg one of the praises in this report is that Croatia has significantly improved regional co-operation, that Croatia has excellent cooperation with neighbouring countries. It's one of the parameters in which we're praised. I think all of this together leads to this goal and that these funds are just one of the ways to move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68650	Thank you. We have one replica, Ms. Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68651	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here I would like to replicate what my colleague Shuica said in the end that Croatia is a leader in this area in the region and that Croatia really shows through these programmes how much it holds and works fully in regional co-operation. Here I would like to recall the time when we started using pre-accession funds in terms of cross-border cooperation and when they were really, it was hard to see how much some countries like Italy were then what amounts they had available in relation to what we were then able to use, and some of the experiences when we were in the county trying to raise awareness of how important it was so early to prepare one of the subjugation was at one lecture said, you know what with these little coins I get for a feasibility study from a company that would get the program. It's not worth making money for. Here's how far we've come. I'm glad to hear how much more the application is now compared to the number of projects I can get, and that may be a message not everyone can always get the money from this program, but it's extremely important to pass that cycle and if you don't get it in the first year, you'll learn later when you pass this program. And another experience that we had in our co-operation when it started with Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Serbia proved to be a real problem if on the other side of the border, and then it was a case of no coordination, especially if there is no national coordination and on our incentive there was actually a joint programme council which then actually began to collect and unite and strategic priorities, but also how to take part on both sides of the borders. Here is so much, I think it is extremely important that Croatia now, with this experience, is very active in the region, and in a way that our municipalities and counties themselves use money for projects, but that we also transfer this precious experience to others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68652	Thank you. Answer, Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68653	You're right, Mrs. Pejcinović, Buric. The fact is that really as I said in my presentation of our county made significant progress in that sense, and not only in the county but also in the cities and municipalities, but you reminded me when you were now saying, as some mayor said, as we accepted in Dubrovnik at the same time were some projects with our friendly city... and they had the right to 90% of the funds, we were only at 10, it was really small amounts, but we accepted, one was editing the park, the other was editing the house on the island... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] , but in any case we accepted and now I see in this report the names of these people from the city administration in Dubrovnik who then decided to participate in this team, because they already received those skills in time. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] And that was very important, and that's why I think he did a great job back then, but that they're doing excellent work for our counties,... The agency and that it is for us, it is for us to work together with Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially with Montenegro, because we are a unique tourist space, and we simply have to encourage a single market because without it there is no economic impact, and we are probably doing everything in order to make economic progress, because otherwise this would not make any sense. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68654	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68655	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State. Of course, I support this set of laws confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on cross-border cooperation programmes for Croatia with neighbouring countries within the scope of the IPA. Of course, the programmes of cross-border cooperation, as our secretary of state stated, is a positive, good positive practice, and in this way Croatia has become a leader in the region by doing so, and let us remember since 2003 when it was very small funds, but it was actually used for education so that we could get more and more resources, so that we could prepare better, work better programs. I don't like to say that we're pulling something out of Europe, but we're actually getting as much as we're giving. So if we make a good quality program, that way the grades are going to be good, that way we're going to get more money. As far as institutional abilities are concerned, of course, that it is different in the county and that it depends on the interests, on the abilities, on how much they have been educated, when this cooperation began, when it began to interest international funds. Of course it's compatibility with time of interest, and with abilities. And of course who's more up-to-date in this whole project, of course he's won, and he'll get more funding. Otherwise, the cross-border cooperation programme, I will look only at the Croatian-Montenegro programme, so this programme allows Croatian counties to report their projects and, of course, get free funds from the IPA programme. We know we have five programs, this is the second component, it means strengthening cross-border cooperation. Within this area, this component is also Dubrovnik-Neretva County, with that cooperation can also go to Split-Dalmatia County, with that we, Dubrovnik-Neretva County can go with two states to work together, and can also benefit from this cooperation transnational as Mediterranean County. Through this programme of cross-border cooperation with Montenegro, it means that around 85% of the permitted costs of the project are co-financed, while, of course, the remaining 15% must be provided by end-user and, of course, every user we will see later in examples must have two partners from different countries. It is also this component of the preparation of candidate countries for future management of the European Union's structural funds, but then we really need to be prepared, because we will need to make documentation, we will need cost benefits, we will need more complete documentation, of course we will need to provide more funding. Here's also listed when the first call was made. The first proposal was reached on 21 August and lasted until 18 November 2009, and I must express my satisfaction here that the recently promoted 5 approved projects of cross-border cooperation between Croatia and Montenegro, and of course there is, I will thus express my cooperation, the co-operation of the cross-border programme of Croatia and Montenegro, because of the importance of these approvals which led my colleague in front of me. Of course they are also co-operation between Montenegro and Croatia, for all areas mentioned, therefore there is no need to repeat them now. And in that sense, I will actually shorten my discussion, I can only say that the beginning of the realisation, that it will go, that it will last 24 months, the value is the same, or the European Union has secured 386 thousand euros, while Montenegrin partners invest some 38 thousand, and Croatia about 55 and a half thousand euros. Here I can finally say, after we become a member of the European Union, the Republic of Croatia means becoming a beneficiary of the Structural Funds, as I have said before, which all requires for the use of such structural funds. Therefore, constant information, continuous instruction, permanent education is absolutely necessary, we have seen that we have improvement, and of course for this competition that will follow us in February, at the end of February, of course we will need great knowledge to report how best these projects are to get as much funding as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68656	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Agent Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68657	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Bonačić, you have well noticed that what is happening in this field of European funds and involvement in all these events is important. Here's an example I'm going to show you. So, at the first IPA competition, the cross-border cooperation between Croatia and Serbia is the area most interesting to us in Slavonia. At the first competition in July 2009, 110 projects were reported. So there was a lot of information, but only 11 projects were approved. So a total of 10%. In addition to counties of course of association, units of local self-government, etc., they participated in the competition. Of these 11 projects in the Osijek-Baranja County area, 9 projects. Unfortunately, in the area of my county only 1 project is in collaboration with Osijek-Baranja County, so from that level I can't be very satisfied, but I can't generally be satisfied when it's only 10%. So, of course, the most important thing other than good involvement and good teaming on the ground is all of those institutions that we have more or less. From development agencies, cross-border co-operation offices and all those similar institutions dealing with such a business. Unfortunately, somewhere they are, so unfortunately, they're doing worse somewhere, and fortunately, they're doing well somewhere. We've all been looking forward to opening an office in Brussels of Osijek-Baranja County, and we thought that now one county there was opening an office. Obviously, it has some effect on all of that. It's not like I'm accusing someone or anything, but I'm sorry that in my county there's no such thing as good application to these programs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68658	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68659	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague of Heffer's, and you've listed the relationship between the applicants and those who have received the funds. I think that's a lot like you in other counties. And here we have 24 applications, and it's approved 5. So that's about the same ratio. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68660	Thank you. Here at 10:39 will pass the time to report 10 minutes. It's Mr. Agent Ivan Skaričić's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68661	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission in the Cross-border Cooperation Programme Croatia – BiH under the IPA 2009 cross-border cooperation component, namely on 10 December 2007, the European Commission adopted the IPA 2009 Programme for Cross-border Cooperation Croatia – BiH. In order to implement this programme, it was necessary for the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission to conclude a financing agreement setting out the conditions for implementation, thus setting out detailed conditions for the delivery and management of this assistance. Then, in December 2010, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the Agreement with the European Commission in this programme, and the agreement was signed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 27.12.2010. The total value of this programme from BiH is 17 million 521 thousand 842 kuna. Of which 8 million 760 thousand 921 kuna is foreseen for the Republic of Croatia. It should be noted that in this programme, the Republic of Croatia itself is co-financed with 131 thousand 413 kuna. And now it's up to us as at the Croatian Parliament to pass the Act of Confirmation of this Agreement. We have his translation on benches in English, from English to Croatian as they are not normally allowed to intervene in international agreements. I support bringing him the way he is before us and thus allowing us to use these funds. That's why I suggest we support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68662	Thank you. Madam representative Nevenka Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68663	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will focus the debate on this Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation of Croatia and BiH within the framework of the IPA Programme's component cross-border cooperation for 2009. At the beginning of my presentation, I will remind you that the general objective of the programme is, and I will remind you, that the programming process was carried out from December 2006 to May 2007, on an extremely broad basis of consultations and partnerships with all units of local and regional self-government. It means that the aim of this programme is to support the development of cross-border networks and partnerships to revitalise the economy, protect nature and the environment and increase social cohesion of the programme area, which means areas on both sides of the Croatian border with BiH. A further objective of the same programme is to build capacity for local, regional and national EU fund management institutions and manage future cross-border programmes under the EU Structural Funds objective. This additional goal is defined on the basis of bad experiences related to the implementation of the INTEK programme, which was discussed by counterpart Buric Pejcinovic. The multiannual indicative plan paper for the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008-2010 indicates that cross-border cooperation managed through component 2 will support the Republic of Croatia in cross-border and cross-border and inter-regional cooperation with EU Member States, as well as IPA users. It will also focus on improving the potential for tourism and creating closer links between border areas and supporting joint environmental activities. The program is consistent with what I think is extremely important. So, with the basic national strategies of individual sectors in the Republic of Croatia and BiH, it is also in line with the development projects of units of regional self-government that have at the time of programming adopted their development, i.e. regional operational programmes. I will also point out in the introduction that acceptable area means stretching somewhere at 30,000 and 882 km square from the Croatian side and there are somewhere in the area about a million and 620 thousand inhabitants. So the total area to which this Programme applies lives is about 4.4 million inhabitants. I will also remind you that the priorities identified by this programme under 1. create a common economic space and that when we have programmed this programme that meant our goal at that moment, to respond to the bad economic situation on both sides of the border. The aim of this programme is to contribute to the integration of the economy in border areas through the promotion of cooperation in the areas of tourism, through the support of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and the promotion of entrepreneurship, and the individual objectives in this programme are the creation and development of a recognizable tourist offer based on the common natural and cultural heritage located on both sides of the border. The measures to achieve this are defined as a common development of tourist offer and promotion of entrepreneurship. The second priority in this programme is to improve the quality of life and social integration, in response to social problems and environmental problems also on both sides of the border, because at that time programming was already visible that there was a lack of coordination in very significant segments in the area of waste water, floods of Neretva, mine fields and a lack of coordination in the case of natural disasters other than floods and others. The third priority is technical assistance aimed at improving cross-border cooperation and building management capacity. I would also remind you that the European Commission adopted a cross-border programme for the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2007 and 2013 under the IPA cross-border cooperation component in December 2007, and this agreement is a continuation of the financial agreements for 2007 and 2008 and it opens up the possibility of using grants intended for the said programme for 2009. The funding agreement for cross-border programmes with non-member countries of the European Union, the European Union has concluded for each year individually, with 6 projects agreed for 2007 and 2008 and another 6 projects are expected by the end of February and early March, respectively. Since the next tender for the delivery of project proposals is planned, this Act should be opened soon to allow users to withdraw the funds provided as soon as possible. But what I believe is even more important from this place is to invite interested people to prepare for this new tender that is going on soon, are not negligible funds, they are valuable, according to one project, the funds range from 50 to 300 000 euros, with grants being 85% of the total value of the project. I will also remind you that the total value of this cross-border cooperation programme of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina under the 2009 IPA programme is 17,5 million kuna, of which for the Republic of Croatia 8 million and 760 thousand kuna. The European Union's gift is one million euros, the rest is provided by end-users and the Ministry of Regional Development of Forestry and Water Economy. Here, Zadar County is one of those who can use the funds from this component and has been an active participant in making this program from the very beginning. So I can say that the name of the team that represented the Zadar County then in creating this programme which I am, I am proud to be part of that team that participated directly in the work, programming this programme of the Republic of Croatia with Bosnia and Herzegovina, although the Zadar County participated in previous programmes and was the first to start serious co-operation with the European Commission delegation. Zadar County also participates in a cross-border cooperation programme with Italy because it is an acceptable area for the programme. I want to highlight here today another very important programme with which Zadar County participated in this programme of cross-border cooperation with Bosnia, which is that, together with partners, firstly a public institution for managing protected parts of the Zadar County, the Zadar County Development Agency and the Bihać Centre for the Promotion of Local Development has prepared a project to develop a common tourism product in the area of the upper stream of the Una River called "Una spring of light". The project is worth 227 thousand euros and was reported on the first call for a proposal. The goal of this project is how well it is, I want to highlight it as an example of how these programmes are well set, how they are consistent with all development and strategic projects. The project aims to jointly develop and promote the source located in Croatia or Zadar County and waterfalls in Unac and the old town of Ostrovica in the area of Martinbrod in Bosnia and Herzegovina as part of the common environment of the integrated tourist product through cross-border cooperation and the pooling of different experiences of all stakeholders from the upper stream area of the Una River. One more thing I would like to point out is that of the 102 projects reported on this first call 6 projects are from Zadar County and this time I refer to the invitation to a new competition and you are invited all and those who have not passed, out of 102 projects that have not passed in the previous competition to re-adjust the same valuable projects to this new competition, to give priority to environmental protection projects, especially I don't know the Neretva River, because these dumps that are located in Bosnia directly influence, have a negative effect on the area of the lower flow of the Neretva River. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68664	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Frano Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68665	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here is my colleague, listening to your debate, I am truly pleased with the guidance of you especially that you have worked on these projects locally, and when we hear about cross-border cooperation, it is certainly commendable that right now the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we here in the Parliament are making such a decision that both with the Government and with Bosnia and Herzegovina we establish one such cooperation. However, we have already had, as you said in your presentation of already cross-border cooperation, and I also come from the town of Pleternica where, this year and last year, we started a cross-border cooperation truth with Republika Srpska but we have already had experience with the governments of Italy and other countries where we have already done this cross-border cooperation in recent years, and in any case these are projects that are of exceptional importance to local self-government. And we right here in the Parliament need to make our contribution to establishing such relations. And that is why it is commendable that we are establishing relations with these other countries that we have not had cross-border cooperation with so far. And that's why I want to make sure that these projects and other projects that we haven't worked with so far, because they're all projects that use local self-government, the development of the economy. These are projects of exceptional importance where we build both water supply and disposal and all that is needed to develop an economy. The economy cannot develop without such projects and this is exactly the opportunity to get grants, which is particularly important to point out and therefore I support the passage of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68666	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68667	Sure, buddy. So who wanted to have the opportunity to educate themselves through these projects and learn how to use EU grants. However, since you've already given me the opportunity I want to highlight and interstate cooperation means not only limited to individuals and local and within the county. For example, Zadar County, along with the Sibenik-Knin County, has applied to one part of the EU's funds, and here I keep sharing this positively with others and recommending that it does not only stick to its units of local or regional self-government but to jointly run projects if they are worthy to run together because it is then much greater likely that such projects will pass because the EU supports just such co-operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68668	Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68669	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'd like to start with two questions. Is cross-border cooperation limited only to projects financed from Brussels or other international organisations? And another question. What is the cooperation beyond these projects that we're talking about today? That's a fundamental question. Fellow Members and colleagues, we are often discussing European projects and the framework in which the game takes place is the legal property of the EU, i.e. legal documents of acts of the Council of Europe. I would therefore like to talk about the legal acts of the Council of Europe in order to answer two questions that I asked at the beginning. My colleagues and colleagues, the Council of Europe has very important documents that regulate cross-border co-operation. The first convention in this area was adopted in 1980. After that in '95, '98. three protocols were adopted last year, so three additional conventions on cross-border co-operation. My colleagues and colleagues, do you know of these four conventions that the Republic of Croatia signed and ratified these conventions? Of 4 only 1, which is certainly not good. What is the regulation of conventions we didn't sign? Comrades and colleagues, we are all in favour of that within our borders, our cities cooperate better, to form joint municipal enterprises for the treatment of wastewater, waste dumps, etc. However, when it comes to trying to make 5 Croatian cities with 5 cities on the other side of the border try to form a joint venture, a joint kindergarten, a joint school, is that possible? That's not possible for colleagues and colleagues. You're not going to give me any examples where we're successful. The problem lies precisely in these protocols that Croatia did not sign. Protocols 1 and 2 regulate bilateral and multilateral contracts that the state must sign with the neighbouring country by allowing cities and municipalities to, within their respective responsibilities, underline once again, cooperate with cities and municipalities on the other side of the border. So a woman in the morning can take her child to kindergarten on the other side of the border. A kid who goes to school, if school is better on the other side of the border, he'll go to high school on the other side of the border. If someone is sick, and the hospital on the other hand has that kind of medical service he can provide can go away. Of course, this should be regulated by bilateral contracts which unfortunately Croatia has not regulated with the countries of the former Yugoslavia that we are talking about today. So it's an enormous and enormous flaw. Furthermore, these conventions that Croatia has not signed regulate what if such a company is formed? Who's going to audit his work? By whose laws will this company operate? Itd. All of this should be regulated as a prerequisite for colleagues and colleagues for quality cross-border cooperation. We bring it down again only to those projects funded by Brussels, which is embarrassing. This should be a day-to-day form of cooperation between cities and municipalities on one side of the border, which must be supported, complemented and in everything clearly helped both in economic, social, educational and other respects. I'm afraid not. I am very interested in what the Secretary of State's response is, and what are the reasons why we avoid these conventions, we avoid signing bilateral agreements with our neighbours, we avoid essentially setting cross-border cooperation on sound grounds as the Council of Europe has imagined. I have to say that I will absolutely support all these projects and programs that we have on benches today, but I repeat once again, let's not limit cross-border cooperation on these projects funded by someone from a third or fourth country. That's not enough. We ourselves and our neighbours must develop content of cross-border cooperation and allow units of local and regional self-government to enter into this in the right sense of the word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68670	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68671	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. I have listened carefully to this debate and by reading these materials I have actually come to a conclusion that the IPA is actually as important as the instrument of pre-accession assistance in terms of achieving a specific project, a certain goal as well as the simultaneous acquisition of knowledge of how to reach a specific project and how to write it correctly and well. On the other hand, I think that even in this particular case and with these means with which IPA is available when it comes to the co-operation of the Republic of Croatia with Bosnia and Herzegovina, with Serbia and Montenegro, that it should be seen first and foremost in this context. Because in fact Croatia is far ahead of these countries, and these countries are just about to pass the school that Croatia passed and have a lot to learn at that school. So when I talk about that school, then I'm talking about an instrument of learning how to actually meet certain projects and how to achieve certain goals. So someone can actually say, and there was already talk here about how these amounts are relatively small, for example. When it comes to Montenegro, it is 400,000 euros. Although I disagree, each amount is large and important if it is used for the real project, especially if this project applies to the municipality of one, therefore to a small community that cannot recover from its budget from its regular functioning, let alone to actually take a step forward to improving any service and any project. And of course they are not small amounts when it comes to the relationship and contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, when it comes to Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, for example. For one country and another, it's about to win, so the gift is about a million euros. So this also applies to Croatia, in this case also to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, it is not a small amount, and in any case this amount needs maximum, careful use and actually obtain as much benefit from it as possible. It is also clearly stated here, and also from the experience of those who have so far participated in the design of these projects such as Mrs. Marinović, here our colleague, not to mention the knowledge she has, which is available to her colleague Marija Burić-Pejcinović. And the document also says here that experience shows that the institutional capacity to use funds is greater in those regions and municipalities and even countries bordering with European countries. Therefore, once again, we stress the importance of including in these projects and from the point of view of achieving those objectives in the economy and in protecting nature and the environment, as well as social cohesion in terms of cross-border areas. As a B goal, so that's the first goal I was talking about, but as the second goal that's also wanted to achieve here, and it's consistent with this first one is actually preparedness and preparedness i.e. the training of institutions at the level of municipalities, the county and the state of communication with the European Union. The importance of business cooperation between countries and regions and municipalities, improving trade, mobility, in terms of the labour market for tourism development, environmental protection as well as the development of good neighbourly relations can be distinguished. It is important to mention that so far projects of this type have been concluded in two years, or twice, and it is important to mention in particular to those who are monitoring this transmission if there is, I don't know, I think, that, therefore, that the negotiation of these agreements by the end of this month is also expected to call for tenders for the delivery of projects. a proposal by the end of this first quarter of this year. So all those people who have certain ideas, who know what they want and can't really financially cover and support these projects, would do well to address their municipalities and, through them, to the competent authorities at state level, so in this case, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Serbia, who are actually working on co-ordination of these projects, and to access the process in time, simply to start the process with a view to obtaining funds for their project. I would conclude, in the end, that this project can actually conclude that knowledge is universal and that, in fact, behind this IPA that we are talking about now are many other European projects. Finally, and the possibilities of other types of cooperation and that this is actually one of the reasons why the Republic of Croatia joins the European Union. So also many other countries that have entered and joined the European Union in addition to all threats of course that also exist by entering the European Union, especially for fewer peoples, i.e. for less numerous people, then there are certainly great advantages, and one of them is the one that we are talking about today, and within the so-called IPA project. Here is once again my support and invitation to all those who are interested, so especially in the areas bordering the Republic of Croatia, in the premises anyway in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Serbia or Montenegro to register and qualify for assistance from these projects in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68672	Thank you. Four replicas. First, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68673	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am reacting to your conclusion that Croatian leader in this area is in the region. I agree that Croatia should be a leader, but I am not too sure that it is a leader. Croatia is not the leader with regard to the number of euro regions we are working with our neighbouring countries, Croatia is not the first in terms of activities within the association of the cities of Southeast Europe. Croatia, yesterday we saw, is not a leader when it comes to the restoration of cultural heritage in the field of war conflicts. Croatia is not a leader we see with regard to the signing and ratification and implementation of the Council of Europe Convention. That's what I was saying earlier. I will mention in addition that three countries in the area of the former Yugoslavia have signed and ratified those conventions. Unfortunately, Croatia did not do that. Therefore, we still have much, much to do to become a real leader in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68674	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68675	I highly appreciate Professor Doric, your commitment to Croatia as a leader in all of these segments that you said was not Croatian leader. However, without a doubt, if Croatia were not the leader in this law we are currently discussing, then neither would Bosnia and Herzegovina nor Montenegro nor Serbia be able to access these funds at all. Therefore, I agree that there is also a need for improvement in many segments. However, we do not need to close our eyes and actually be more critical and self - critical than necessary. Croatia has leadership in many segments and I think it should also highlight them in a certain way and recognise them. Here I was, among other things, a member of Mr. Foreign Minister Jandrokovic's delegation at some meetings in the United States and I assure you that Croatia in America is at the highest places in Congress, in the Senate received both as a leader and as a partner and as a country that is not asked to achieve both this and that because it has already achieved, but which is what friends we expect to do and how we can do together and how we can help. Here, I think that's important.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68676	Second replica, Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68677	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So here is the man who lives in the border area, namely the city from which I come my Vrgorac borders the municipality of Ljubuski and Gruda, that is, the western Herzegovina County. I would just like to update in one part of my colleague Bagarić in terms of cooperation that exists in the direction and at the level of the topic we are talking about today. In fact, I'd like first of all to point out what you said, which is co-operation must refer to knowledge instruments and help. We have to help. The ability that exists from our municipalities and cities, across the counties to the ministry, is that it means also communication with the European Union and quality meeting the conditions, meeting therefore and running for projects and criteria. I'll point out just a few examples that we have. The greatest example we have is here and the secretary of state is a major project to drain excess water from the Vrgorak field, lakes and distances. However, the gap is not only of the top-notch and Croatian, but also of the Bosnian-Herzegovina, in two parts. The whole project is running with 85m euros. Therefore, gentlemen of cooperation exists at the level of the districts of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, Split-Dalmatia, then the County of West-Herzegovina, or their agencies dealing with cross-border cooperation, and at the level of cooperation not only, cross-border but also in the Republic of Croatia, inter-zonal but also inter-urban and inter-municipal because of the participation of the towns of Ploca, Vrgorac and the municipalities of Pozerje plus the municipalities of Ljubuška. So this is a positive example. We have another example that we have also created a water line between us, and there is cultural cooperation, that is, cultural cooperation projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68678	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68679	I thank my colleague Matkovic. I think what you've just brought out here should be an incentive for all the other counties in Croatia and all those counties in this case, Bosnia and Herzegovina, bordering these counties, to actually design these or similar projects. Here's what comes to mind, for example, my own county where I live, so Herceg-Bosnian County, these are the municipalities of Kupres and Livno and Tomislavgrad. And it is known that it is one visor, so from 800 to almost 1000 m above sea level and that almost all water, so almost the entire plum from that space is aimed at the Split-Dalmatia County. And in any case, therefore, it is of interest to both regions in this case, so let's say this question, for example, protection and maintenance of water cleanness and all of those, all those issues that can actually be covered between the rest and this agreement, i.e. by means of this agreement to be involved and to develop one co-operation that will actually be of general benefit. Finally, it is also the protection in this case and the Adriatic Sea, the most beautiful sea in the world, and we also owe it to the conventions of Europe and the world when it comes to the protection of the Adriatic and the general protection of the Mediterranean. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68680	Thank you. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68681	Well, here's my colleague, Bagaric, I actually refer to your call to all those who didn't know, who hear that yet, that this program is still open. I think it's something extraordinary. Now the truth isn't so easy to get those funds. But we have already said during this morning's debate that we are actually learning through these projects how to use those large funds from the European Union tomorrow. It is also a fact that I repeat that the administrative capacity has definitely been corrected and that we have made great progress in all counties and that there is clear progress in Croatia when it comes to human education. As for the small cross-border projects that are the subject of this agreement, I would like to stress once again in Dubrovnik, as I said this morning, we used a long time ago when we could not use Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, then we used funds through neighbouring Italy and through the cities of friends. But there's one project we started a long time ago, and that's co-operation in the fire department. Therefore, co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro is necessary because we said there is insufficient coordination in the area of natural disasters when it comes to floods and fires. But in this area when it comes to fire, we have really established good cooperation, because without that cooperation, we are all simply at risk. I think it's the best example of how good cooperation can be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68682	Thank you. And Mrs. Representative... And the answer, yes, yes. I apologize to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68683	I thank my colleague Shuci. I think there should actually be a message with this debate to all those who have ideas, who have a vision to get into this let's say the adventure of writing a project, learning, so I think in a positive sense. At the end of each time, even the one around the world should begin with the first step. I know it's not easy, and you can't get that knowledge overnight, but everyone needs to go into it. In the end nobody won the lottery unless they filled out the ballot. Therefore, in any case, it is necessary to send a message that people are involved that all those who have the idea that they are actually starting perhaps precisely within the framework of these projects under this Agreement, and then that they are much greater in realising and I do not know by myself other ingenuities and helping others. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68684	Thank you. And Ms. Representative Marija Buric Pejcinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68685	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Bagariæ, I also think that this debate of ours, except that it serves to discuss these programs, also serves to send certain messages precisely in those areas where we think that information is either insufficient, or in some cases perhaps misunderstood. I would especially stress here that once again that I think that access to something small money is a very bad approach, these are taxpayers' money, in this case taxpayers of the European Union, but there are also Croatian taxpayers' money. There are therefore no small amounts, there are good projects, there are projects that can be run. And one more thing, every single euro invested like this, every kuna invested like this comes back multiple times. I think it's one of the most important lessons that we've had in our experience and a message that we should all remember. So there is a multiplicity effect, there is an effect on those areas where projects are implemented, but there is a long-term effect exactly in that sense that then you can run for other funds later on. I think it's very important to inform and inform about these possibilities in this area, and so I don't think we should stop working on that, that it's one of those tasks that's certainly our job here. And as for this debate about how much of a leader we are in the region, I think there have been speeches here in this context, and I have to say and repeat what I was saying here, we are the leader in this area in the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68686	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68687	I completely agree with what you said, and I would only add a moment ago to the remarks of my colleague Dubravka Shuice, when I said that the ballot should be filled out, she said it should be paid and paid. That's what I forgot. However, neither Croatia has forgotten, nor in this case, Bosnia and Herzegovina. They have already paid our ballots because they have provided the funds from the budget, which were needed to secure this co-financing of these projects, so all those who have ideas should come forward because the ballot has already been paid for them. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68688	Thank you. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68689	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will point out immediately that, like all predecessors, I will support all four proposals of the law confirming the financing agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on Croatia's cross-border cooperation programmes with Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as part of the 2009 cross-border cooperation component of the IPA programme, as well as the trans-national Southeastern Europe Mediterranean programme, as part of the cross-border cooperation of the 2009 Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, which we are talking about today in a united debate. As I come from Brodo-Posavina County, one of the 9 Croatian counties bordering Bosnia and Herzegovina, and who have the right to finance, it is understandable that I have the most interesting programme of cross-border cooperation between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it offers solutions both for the rapid recovery and development of the county in cross-border cooperation, as well as for solving the acute and current problems that plague residents of the town of Slavonski Brod and Brod-Posavina County, resulting from right-hand side of the Sava River, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina, from the Bosnian-ship oil refineries whose work pollutes the air, not only in the area of the Bosnian Ship, but also from air pollution to the concentration of dangerous citizens. So I would just remind myself that the refinery with work began after many years, in which it did not work, began in 2008 and that air pollution started to occur on the left side of the Sava coast, so in the town of Slavonski Brod. The reaction of the ministry, the resorient Ministry of Environmental Protection, was that we first received a mobile measurement station that confirmed the concentrations, i.e. the excess of permitted air pollution values, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Ministry, or the Environmental Protection Fund, provided funds for the construction of the measuring station, and now here in 2010, because this problem is taking place and escalating, and now, the measurement station is being upgraded by measuring the benzene. It is clear that all this that has taken place will not solve the cause of the problem, because this problem can only be solved by the installation of the filters that the oil refinery should be installed, but I see through this agreement, I see the possibility that the local communities, both the town of Slavonski Brod, the Brod-Posavina County and the city of Bosnia Brod, recognise that this problem is not only a problem for the citizens of Slavonski Brod, but that the refinery is equally polluting the air and endangers the health of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina Brod, and that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Posavina, so that the common projects, in the framework of cross-border cooperation, would point to this, at this moment, the most important problem regarding air pollution in the Republic of Croatia, and related to cross-border cooperation, since it is clear that the Republic of Croatia has done whatever it does, and addressed through the Resoralna and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers, and the High Trust, and the High Representative of Bosnia, have no response to all. At the end of last year's Council of Ministers meeting in Split last summer, however, it was agreed that the Republic of Croatia would receive an answer to this problem, the answer has not reached today. I also support what my colleagues have said that these agreements and this cross-border cooperation should also be used for education. So, both in writing projects and in withdrawing. In particular, those grants by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by signing and adopting these laws provide for an institutional and financial framework so that units of regional and local self-government can identify common problems relating to the life of residents in border areas. I must say that Brod-Posavia County, a colleague of Marinovic, has taken out data from Zadar County, I must say that the Ship-Posavia County has run 12 projects from this area in the previous competition, but I am told by the head of the Management Department for European Integrations of the Brod-Posavina County that although the projects have been highly positioned, none has been included. So, this debate of mine, I want it to be a part of what my colleagues were talking about, to send a message to all those involved in these programs that they can use once-quality and timely project preparation and timely project preparation to report to the competition and make use of those resources available to them. I agree with my colleague Buric, who said that there are no funds, that we cannot talk about small funds because the grants are available to us and that we can use to improve the quality of life of the population, i.e. citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia cannot evaluate the value of the programme at the amount of the funds. It was for small programmes, i.e. small projects ranging from 20 to 50 000 euros or for those ranging from 50 to 300 000 euros. So, here is the message that the town of Slavonski Brod, through its development agency as well as the Brod-Posavina County and all units of local self-government in the area of Brod-Posavina County, is well prepared with quality projects to report to this competition in order to achieve the best possible effect and withdraw as much resources as possible. Clearly with a special desire to include air pollution management in the town of Slavonski Brod, i.e. in Brod-Posavina County through the area of environmental protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68690	Thank you. Three replicas. First, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68691	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, here, colleagues Bilić Vardic passed the law a year ago, an agreement in fact, for an agreement between the government of the Republic of Croatia, BiH and the EU that allowed access to a million and 300 thousand euros for cross-border projects mainly in the environment. Of this, nothing was going on in terms of improving the situation, so nothing was run between BiH and Croatia in connection with the refinery situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You were talking about the polluted air in Slavonski Brod, clearly that is a fact, however, the measurement station that has come with the gift of telling the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not measure benzene. Here, these days it is now said that this measurement station will also be given instruments to measure the concentration of benzene. However, you did not mention that no one controls, or controls, but we do not have data on the pollution of the Sava River. So, water. And you know well that every refinery with which tanks are delivered has ballast water, and besides that, from the air, the same particles of sulfur, sulfur dioxide, benzene are laid down both on the ground and in the Sava River. And one more thing, when you were talking about projects that should be run, you needed them as many as possible. That's right, I agree with you. However, you are not talking about the cost of designing projects, mainly of municipalities with 8 in the area of Brod-Posavina County, which are not affected, or included in the area of special state care. These projects are very expensive. For some municipality of Gundence or the municipality of Brod Stupnik which has a budget of 3.4 million kuna the project of 500 thousand or million kuna is very expensive. And they can't single it out. In this segment and the state, therefore, it is necessary to help design projects to find and fund in the budget to make and assist projects in such poor municipalities. And thank God the Brod-Posavina County has almost all the municipalities poor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68692	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68693	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I apologize, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here is my colleague Grubisic, I thank you for this replica because I have no doubt that we are just as much as the other representatives from Brod-Posavina County are interested in solving the problem of air pollution in Slavonski Brod and Brod-Posavina County. I must correct you in your presentation in some of the allegations. Namely, you don't talk about building a measuring station these days. Because you're just as good as I am to realize that it was solved during 2010, but the contest was annulled and then it extended the build-up of the measurement station to benzene. You said and pointed to a problem that local self-government units, or municipalities that are not the PPDS area. You are a councilman in the Assembly of Brod-Posavina County, and then you know that in the division of the European Integrations Department there are funds intended to assist in the development of projects so that all interested people are allowed to design the project, run and withdraw the funds. And this third thing, clearly, is that in this area, environmental protection measures are also regulation of river basins, or the Sava River. I would only like to point out once again that this problem can be solved in communication and in the cooperation of representative bodies, i.e. the city of Slavonski Brod and representatives of the city of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not that the mayor of Slavonski Brod can be called the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And here I propose at the next session of the City Council called on Tuesday for air pollution should hold a session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the city of Slavonski Brod. I will clearly for these reasons for my debate be against such a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68694	And Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68695	Mr. Vice-President, distinguished representative Bilić Vardić spoke about cross-border cooperation programmes and everything she said well and I would like to say a few words about the cooperation programmes between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it is vital to have one area of water management and all to protect people living under the dam on Neretva or Trebišnica, and there is one large space for people living in the valleys of these rivers to protect themselves from floods and to be able to live here normally. In one word, the interests of all users of water need to be harmonised primarily in terms of electricity and those living by these waters, and this is a vital composition because nothing disappears and stops at the border. In addition to the protection of people in these valleys, it is very important that the sea gets sufficient amounts of fresh water primarily here I mean the Bay of Maloston. And what is important for tourism and cross-border cooperation is that in the far south we have a very long border, and a very small number of border crossings, which in one way reduces the possibility of dealing with tourism for people in the region. There is a wide area for cooperation and I know that the municipalities are adjacent to Konaval, the Dubrovnik coast, the parish of Dubrovnik, the municipalities of Ravna, Neum worked projects to improve tourism and that is what needs to be fixed and the state must open border crossings on the Čepića and the border crossing of Slano. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68696	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68697	Thank you very much. You have pointed out the problem that affects the people in the border area of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the part where you live. I fully understand you because I come from a county that has a border with Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Sava River within 170 km. Therefore, what you point to and what I have advocated in the debate is a civil, joint discussion, the establishment of cooperation between the representatives of the citizens and the other parties in order to identify the common problems of common forces can be invested in resolving them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68698	And Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68699	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bilić VArdić I fully understood your thinking about preserving a healthy environment and the right to breathe healthy air. These days when we listen to problems that meet the population of Slavonski Brod, it really causes compassion but of course the need to act immediately. I believe for sure that there's enough space in this room to do that. And I come from the border area myself, and I remember very well that time when that famous mud is aluminium in Hungary, then everyone asks how far it is and how it continues to develop. I'm sure we followed. But I'm joining the thinking of colleagues who said education is necessary, with regard to project preparation, etc. We often tend to think that we know a lot, that we know everything, but when it comes to applying a quality project that doesn't always work that way. There's also a phrase that says that knowledge is a drop and ignorance of the sea, so to speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68700	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68701	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will say a few words myself on the Law on the Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission on a cross-border cooperation programme Croatia – Bosnia and Herzegovina under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2009. The most advocates talk about this programme, which is not surprising because we are caring for good relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina for many years, we have shared problems since the Homeland War in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have a common 992km limit, and also 9 Croatian counties border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it is logical that the best interest and interest is precisely in Croatia's cooperation with Bosnia and Herzegovina. A few words on a programme adopted by the European Commission called the 2007 cross-border programme between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. – 2013 under the IPA cross-border cooperation component on 10 December 2007. This Agreement is a continuation of the financial agreements concluded for 2007. 2008 and following its conclusion will be the basis for the grant of funds to be used in the framework of projects to assist cross-border cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina under a component called IPA cross-border cooperation for 2009. The financing agreement for cross-border programmes with non-European Union Member States shall be concluded on an individual basis for each year. So far, the Republic of Croatia has concluded a 2007 financing agreement worth 1m euros, for 2008 worth 1m euros, and the same funds so far has been agreed on 6 projects, and 6 projects are expected to be negotiated by the end of February 2011. It is therefore necessary to adopt this Act in an emergency procedure in order to enable users of projects located in the cross-border area to use EU funds in a timely manner, taking into account, of course, the next tender for the delivery of project proposals planned to be opened in the first quarter of this year 2011. The implementation of this financing agreement will require additional funding from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, for the purpose of co-financing of certain projects stemming from the agreement and in agreement with the European Commission. The total allocation of the programme for the Republic of Croatia for 2009 is one million euros as the previous two years in equivalent to 7 million 446 thousand kuna. The Ministry of Regional Development of Forestry and Water Economy has ensured co-financing of technical assistance priorities for the purpose of programme management, i.e. the Joint Technical Secretariat established by the Ministry of Minimum 17,000 647 thousand euros. The financing costs provided by the Ministry of Regional Development will be entered into by the ministry's regular budget for 2011. As we have heard from the discussion of the objectives of this programme, three basic objectives, the revitalisation of the economy, environmental protection and social cohesion, and I think it is extremely important that the joint preparation of the experience we will receive in these preparation programmes for structural funds. I come from a county that does not border with BiH although there is a significant interest among local self-government units in our Požega-Slavonska in co-operation with local self-government units in BiH. We also heard a fellow member of the Pleternica, who already has such a form of cooperation, and I can say that my town of Pakrac is also establishing a kind of cooperation with the Dobretici municipality in BiH, where we are particularly interested, and of course based on the migration of the population that occurred during the war in BiH where a large number of Croats from BiH came to Croatia, settled in Croatia and in my town of Pakrac. A large number of Croats live in the area of my town right from Dobretic Municipality. This has also opened up an opportunity for cultural, political cooperation, and particularly interesting economic cooperation through the promotion of entrepreneurship where we offer our experience both in the work and establishment of the entrepreneurship centre, in the organisation of economic zones, in the running and successful applications and the use of EU pre-accession funds in our city. We offer all of this to our friends in the municipality of Dobretić and in BiH, and in this area of cooperation we work especially intensively today. I say although we are not a border county we are interested in these forms of cooperation, because direct contacts are being established between cities, municipalities in Croatia with cities and municipalities in BiH. For example, just when I talk about Dobretici, an agreement that is under way in the Municipality of Gornji Bogicevci of the Republic of Croatia successfully implements an agreement. Of course, it is a municipality in the Brod-Posavina County border county, successfully implements an agreement with the Dobretic municipality in BiH and on the trail of these good co-operation projects. We wish to help our friends in BiH who are not yet able to develop the economy and all other activities and municipal infrastructure such as in the Republic of Croatia for free, friendlyly convey our experiences to them, and that we are ultimately benefiting from all of this and trying to connect our businessmen, I say, and all unfortunately on the trail of these unfortunate war events in BiH when a large number of Croats from Bosnia are literally evicted, when emigrated to the Republic of Croatia have settled and are working in the Republic of Croatia today. The main goal is, ultimately, that we all benefit from this together, to prepare projects for future EU structural cohesion funds where we are offered large funds, to get as much of the grants as possible for cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, of course, and for our friends in BiH. For all I am told, I support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68702	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68703	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So here is counterpart Huška, since we come from the same environment from Požega-Slavon County, and you also come from a small town center of Pakrac, like my town Pleternica, this is another indicator of how projects such as cross-border cooperation, various EU projects are developing in small areas. We are also in the area of Požeško-Slavonska County, and in particular the town of Pakrac and the town of Pleternica are ahead of all these projects that have been provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resort Ministry. These are just indications that through these programs we give a guarantee to all of our people in the area that they will have survival, and above all I mean the development of the economy. These projects are exclusively related to the economy and this is what we seek to create in our local self-government units as many of these projects as possible to enable new employment. Your incubator and your entrepreneurship center has been declared one of the best centres in Croatia. Well, that's exactly the guarantee of these projects and programs, and let them all shut up and say they don't invest in Slavonia. Slavonia is also individual cities that participate in European funds, pre-accession funds, as well as cross-border cooperation projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68704	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68705	I thank my colleague Lucic, so here we live together and work in this area of Slavonia, and by all accounts there is a certain success, because the area in Pleternica is also being filled, the area in Pakrac is fully filled and I am pleased to say that the Pakrac Entrepreneurship Centre was named three years ago as the best entrepreneurship centre in the Republic, and the entrepreneurial incubator who works in the Pod-Integrenic Centre Pakrac was awarded the best entrepreneurial incubator in the last year in the Republic. And these are experiences, it's a wealth that we can transfer and extend to our region here in Croatia, and it's already happening, it's growing into a regional entrepreneurship centre. And this cooperation that we have so far with both the Republic of Slovakia and the Republic of Italy, and here after these activities with the municipality of Dobretic and the Republic of BiH, this business centre is getting an international significance. Because it is the work of young educated people who know foreign languages, who are successful in preparing and using pre-accession funds and we offer this knowledge and experience to others. Good steps are also taken by the Pleternica entrepreneurship centre, and unfortunately the Požega County Centre has no such activities and we end up pulling out how you say small towns of the small center of Požega which in this area does literally nothing. And in the end, I have to tell you that we are both Pleternica and Pakrac small towns, small towns, but these are environments with a long history with one great Croatian heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68706	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary Carlo Đurasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68707	Dear Mr. Chairman of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and distinguished parliamentary representatives. I thank you for the interest you have shown in the debate at this united agenda point and for the remarks and suggestions you have made in the debate. Let me explain some of the figures here. Out of the agreed funds under these 2007 and 2008 programmes, which amount to 5 million 380 thousand euros, 99.8% of allocated funds have been contracted, and so far projects have been completed, or used on today's day worth 66% of the agreed amount. I would point out that these programmes last until the end of 2012 and I am sure that all the funds we have at our disposal will be used until the end of the programme. That's two things he's talking about. It says that this is one of the most successful programmes from the IPA pre-accession funds and says something else, that the Republic of Croatia is ready to use already many more generous funds such as structural, regional and cohesion funds. I am also firmly convinced that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will analyse all your objections and suggestions and will take into account the conclusion of the following agreements, all with the aim of improving and strengthening inter-neighborial and transnational cooperation. I thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68708	Thank you, Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have announced, but maybe we could do another agenda point because there's only one club and one individual, so it'll be 12 hours as we announce. I am concluding a debate on this agenda point, i.e. for these four agenda points that carry numbers 712, 713, 714 and 715. We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a cross-border cooperation programme for Croatia - Serbia under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2009. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 712, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a cross-border cooperation programme for Croatia - Serbia under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 104 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68933	President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a very short one. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on police co-operation is one in a series of contracts concluded by the Republic of Croatia with neighbouring countries aimed at deepening mutual cooperation in the fight against all forms of cross-border crime. The agreement establishes a legal framework for the mutual cooperation of the two countries in the field of the fight against all forms of crime, which includes inter alia the exchange of information on persons involved in organised crime, as well as information on planned and committed acts of terrorism and information on methods and new forms of international crime. The implementation of this Agreement will further contribute to further improving and deepening the mutual co-operation between the two countries, as well as to the continuation of the consolidation and development of the friendly relations between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Agreement defines the areas of rules and forms of cooperation, lays down legal relations during treatment in another country, and detailed procedures relating to the data protection area are also laid down. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has established that the conclusion of international agreements is confirmed by the Croatian Parliament, and as it is a contract whose enforcement is of major influence for the national security of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on police cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68934	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68935	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will be very brief, so I will say that we have won the benches of the Bill on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on police cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime. It's another one actually in a series of bilateral contracts that regulate areas of crime control of interest for both countries. This proposal and the importance of police cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime is of paramount importance for both countries, and the agreement itself is the result of the mutual desire of the two countries to promote and deepen mutual co-operation that will contribute to the improvement of relations between the two countries. The agreement between the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the fight against cross-border crime was signed in Sarajevo on 17 September 2010. The signing of this agreement ceases to be a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on co-operation in the fight against terrorism, smuggling and drug abuse and against organised crime signed in Sarajevo in 2000. Therefore, the agreement itself is drawn up in six points and for the effective implementation of this Agreement is a very important direct exchange of information between the police bodies of the two states. Under this Agreement, police authorities shall exchange information and analyses of the state of crime and its prevention and shall discuss and negotiate activities that need to be undertaken quickly and urgently. Similarly, police authorities shall, upon request and in accordance with their national legislation, provide each other with assistance in the search for persons and objects located in unknown places. This Agreement provides for the use of covert investigators of the other Contracting Party in its territory in accordance with the conditions laid down in this Act. In order to successfully detect criminal offences, which extend to another state area of both states and where it is necessary to coordinate the activities of the police bodies of the two countries, it is possible to establish joint teams for reconnaissances and offences by a special agreement. In view of all this, I believe that both states have the interest and need to bring this agreement on police cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime and I think I will support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-18-0.u68936	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs will now address you on the occasion of the 2011 European Year of Volunteering as a European Year of Volunteering. Throughout the European Year of Volunteering, hundreds of projects promoting volunteering and raising awareness of the importance of volunteering in the context of social contribution will be implemented in the Member States of the European Union, as well as countries of accession, including Croatia. The Republic of Croatia as an accession country will also be included in the markings this year. The Government of the Republic of Croatia established a Committee to mark the European Year of Volunteering with the aim of sensitising and raising awareness of Croatian citizens about the values of volunteering and active democratic citizenship. On this occasion, I remind you that since 2008, the Croatian Parliament has also implemented a volunteering programme. With these volunteers and volunteers, all organisations that work hard to develop volunteer programs, and all those who contribute in different ways to the development of volunteering, I want them to continue their work to promote solidarity, responsibility, humanity and democracy in our society. On behalf of the representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, happy European Year of Volunteering. [[Applause.]] We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on police co-operation in the fight against cross-border crime, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 708. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on Police Cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime. Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. The result? This Final Bill proposal is confirmed by a majority vote, 105 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and nothing against.
