ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78690	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is the law on light pollution in the second reading, so the law has passed through this House, I will only say in two, three words that this legal basis for the adoption of this law is the Environmental Protection Act, it contains in particular objectives, sources of pollution, applies in principle to public lighting, so on lighting of roads, public spaces, railway spaces, ports, airports, sports playgrounds etc. The law gives principles of protection, one of them is energy efficiency, which is extremely important nowadays, we need to reduce energy consumption and use the best available techniques for the production of lighting bodies. In particular, the entities in the law to which these provisions of this law apply, therefore, are subject to the system of determination from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the county, the units of local self-government which provide their regulations, relationships and obligations of the operator of public and public lighting responsibilities, the measures to protect against pollution, and the obligations of the manufacturer where it undertakes to use the best available techniques for the production of lighting bodies, the use of materials that are environmentally acceptable to be able to recover the use of packaging and all that is necessary in order to avoid further pollution to the products themselves. What is perhaps the most important difference between the law that was in the first reading and the second is that a large number of objections were accepted, so we received a very large number of remarks, perhaps a surprising number after this first reading of 29 applicants there were, we received 204 comments in total, of which 118 was accepted, and 86 was not. Therefore, it is not 118 articles changed, but it is that the applicants of the observations, particularly professional and non-governmental organisations, were certain that we would accept in different ways the same things, but the vast majority of them were accepted, so the whole law changed the lighting into lighting, the obligation to create a map of lights that was a great burden for local self-government units was lifted, this was on the proposal and from the debate in this House, and what may be the most significant Article 38 and 39 that was abolished, therefore the obligation to change all lighting bodies within 5 years and all lighting sites that did not comply with this law was removed, but also amended to make maintenance plans and in the regular maintenance system of maintenance gradually replace what did not correspond with new sources of light. This will also be in line with the development of technology, technology and production, I hope in the Republic of Croatia, which will enable and find its interest here because of major procedures, but in regular maintenance. There he is, that Mr. President, distinguished ladies and gentlemen MPs, which may be the most important thing in this second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78691	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Ms. Mariana Petir, president of the Committee on Environmental Protection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78692	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and deputies, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director. At its 52nd session held on 27 September 2011, the Croatian Environmental Protection Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final proposal of the Law on Protection against Light pollution, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 14 July 2011. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to: The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as the home working body. Representatives at the meeting were also present representatives of the Croatian Association for the lighting of the Zagreb, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Business Council for Sustainable Development of Sisak Technical School. In the light of the final proposal of the Law, Prof. Dr. Nikola Ruzhinski, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, provided information on the observations received on the text of the law, which was proposed in the first reading. Of the 118 comments in the final draft law, 82 comments were accepted. The comments adopted relate to professional definitions, possible problems in financing the costs of law enforcement in local administration and self-government units, and to the language balance of the text of the law. The debate has shown satisfaction to the professional public for accepting the maximum number of objections. The debate was conducted on clarification of certain concepts, covered by the law of the provided sublegal acts and certain provisions of the laws such as environmental protection procedures and the construction referred to in Article 26 and the obligation set out in Article 19 relating to the production of lighting maps. The proposal for a final draft law to create a map of lighting will not be an obligation of local administration, but rather access to it as necessary. The debate showed the desire to further encourage and support domestic production through the application of this law. Supporting the law was given by the professional, scientific and non-governmental public. After the debate was held, the Committee on Environmental Protection decided unanimously with 8 votes in favour to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Protection against Light Contaminants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78693	Thank you. Is there any more interest in the board? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78694	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, State Secretary, Director. Well, this is an extremely important law, because the Republic of Croatia puts the environmental protection scale on a new level, including in European frameworks, with the protection of light pollution. The scope of the law and the proposed solutions were discussed in the ordinary procedure in two readings, which enabled the general public including the various stakeholders of the professional public to propose the best solutions to the text of the law, and so the majority of the objections of the HSS Club of Representatives were adopted and we will support the adoption of this law. In the HSS, we welcome the decision to resolve the issue of light pollution by law because in 2007 we have just drawn up a draft law on light pollution for which there was no interest at the time. A similar law, like similar binding acts, has brought only a small number of countries in Europe and the world, and we can say that in the legal regulation of this area, Croatia is becoming a leader in Europe. References to the final proposal for a law which we believe is necessary to adopt are solely related to the linguistic non-consistency of the statement of the law itself. The seriousness of the topic covered by the law, and I must say here that it may not often be accepted with the necessary attention and seriousness as once most debates on the protection of nature and the environment were not taken seriously enough and the seriousness of the debate on the proposed law itself was manifested through a reasoned debate at the Club of Representatives of the HSS. In this debate, the draft law is discussed from a wide range of views, views of nature and environment protection, views of lamp manufacturers and designers, institutions and associations conducting environmental and nature monitoring, the needs of the astronomical community, and not less important needs and possibilities for the implementation of this law at the levels of local administration and self-government. To cities and municipalities, as proposed in the first reading of the law, the implementation of the proposed legal solutions would be a huge financial burden, however, these harmonised solutions that we have in the final bill and the contribution of the ideas of the HSS Club in the first reading made the necessary improvements. In this final bill of law that we have the opportunity to discuss today, most of the comments we have received show support for this law by the Croatian Association for Lighting and the Astronomeric Community, as well as the satisfaction of representatives of municipalities and cities over the proposed legal solutions that affect in most cases their humble cash register. To date, 159 towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia with the assistance of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund have realised a total of 171 public lighting projects. The total investment of projects is 126 million kuna while the Co-financing Fund has secured 57 million kuna. So far, the fund has paid off 44 million kuna for users of funds. The Fund for Co-financing in 2011 and 2012 accepted new 159 additional public lighting projects in 155 cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. The total investment of these projects amounts to more than 200 million kuna and the approved participation of the fund is 96 million kuna. After several years in Croatia, almost all new reconstruction projects of the existing, i.e. the construction of new public lighting as light bodies have chosen effective lamps that meet the criteria of shade and protection against light pollution. The increased energy efficiency of public lighting reduces electricity consumption, thus reducing the emissions of polluting substances from the Croatian electricity sector. The application of energy-efficient public lighting, i.e. environmental lighting, removed light pollution of the environment that has a negative impact on biodiversity, human health and the night landscape. It is important to note that it is possible to install public lighting systems on the public lighting system as well. In this way it is possible to regulate the power during the part of the night, and thus the light-flow it has to result in an extension of the life span of the light source. The savings that can be achieved by reconstructing existing public lighting systems are up to 30% to replace only lighting bodies and up to 50% by replacing lighting bodies and installing public lighting regulation systems. Thinking about light pollution, I looked at our planet on the Google map in the night edition. In the area of Europe, parts of Croatia, BiH, Serbia, Montenegro, Kosovo and Macedonia are still darker than other parts of Europe, especially Western Europe. Is that an advantage or a flaw for us? If that's an advantage, can we take advantage of it, and if it's a flaw, can we make it right? According to the potential offered by the law, the issue of economic impact on stakeholders and entities affected by the law is first imposed. The need to introduce public lighting into areas that are today without public lighting as well as modernising existing public lighting that is often energy inefficient and light polluting the environment contributes to the resuscitation of economic activities in planning and designing in the production of lamps and equipment to meet the conditions prescribed by the implementing acts of this law. This is an opportunity to encourage our industry to step up and develop products that will be able to compete and lead in the future on the European and world market for lighting equipment. At the same time, there is also an opportunity for high-set standards to ban imports of poorly inefficient and environmentally harmful and often outdated technologies. Another positive step of this law is seen in the protection of wild varieties as it is proposed by law as an additional contribution to the protection and conservation of biodiversity, which we also often and rightly praise in Europe and the world. It is this preserved biodiversity and natural landscape that the potential for the development of the country contributes significantly to the promotion of Croatian tourism based on a healthy, preserved and original environment. The discussions we held mentioned the idea of establishing parks of the dark sky as a special phenomenon. The first dark sky park was established in the state of Utah in the United States in 2007. Today, there are only 11 such parks in the world, and since 2009 another such park in Europe has been applied in the immediate neighbourhood of Hungary. According to the characteristics of the area and possibilities in Croatia, suitable locations are being considered in the area of Karlovac and Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Micro-locations are Petrova Gora and Island Lastovo, and these locations have far better conditions to observe the night sky than our neighboring park, so in the neighbouring state. Such dark areas provide exceptional conditions for watching the sky, and in that space during the night in the sky it is possible to see up to 15,000 stars unlike urban centers where we can see only 500 stars with a lot of trouble. The potential of such locations and surrounding areas for additional tourist offer, of course we can especially highlight astronomical tourism, is not negligible. Namely, the astronomical phenomena that we can follow in the sky have been distributed throughout the year like the rain of meteorites of the most famous perzeoids in August, laonide in November, lioride in April and others. Recognizing our wealth that we protect through various forms and regimes of nature protection by putting this legislative proposal in the procedure, we confirm the commitment of the Republic of Croatia to respect high standards of environmental and nature protection, but also energy efficiency in this part of the world that we often boast is the most beautiful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78695	Thank you. It's HNSU Club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78696	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the bill, colleagues and colleagues. Here's to the very beginning, I'm going to say that the HNS HSU Club will support this bill. We are today making a decision on the Law that is first made in the Republic of Croatia and is tasked with preventing light pollution in our living environment. The fact is that the Republic of Croatia belongs to a line of countries where light pollution does not yet burn red light, but that is why we need to prevent possible bad situations from happening in this area and the current potentially bad situations most recently fix. This law prescribes the obligations of lighting operators, units of local administrations, to strengthen the protection against light pollution with a view to preserving human and animal health and saving energy consumption. It is not appropriate to say again what light pollution is. The definition says that every change in the level of natural light in the night conditions is caused by the introduction of artificially produced light which loses the night sky or night darkness and disrupts the life rhythm of all living things. The expression light pollution appeared in Croatian legislation for the first time in 2007. In environmental law. In the first reading, a lot of remarks have been made to the law and the fact that the applicant has adopted all objections from parliamentary representatives and MPs and it is written in the light of this Law. It did not mention everything else that came from the public, so I wanted to ask, and I received a reply from the Secretary of State, that the Law had experienced and that they were largely adopted and incorporated into this proposal. No, just a few more remarks on the final text. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is stated that the owner or lighting operator shall bear all the costs of preventive measures and measures to eliminate adverse effects and shall be financially responsible for the implementation of them. I think it's an inaccurate formulation and there's going to be a transfer of responsibility from the operator to the owner and vice versa. The same article abolished the responsibility of a supervised engineer, which puts the designer in an awkward position because the designer can do well in a project of lighting and cannot have an impact on the implementation of it. I'd still like to mention the 31st article. Up to 33. Where inspection surveillance is mentioned. It is clear that the control of each Law is one of the most important parts of that Law. It is stated that the application of the law will be accompanied by inspection supervision in environmental protection and economic inspection. I am convinced that these inspections will include the profession, because without it, it would not be possible to apply it, which is the most important thing or control over the application of this law. Here we are in the Croatian People's Party and in the Croatian People's Party, we accept this proposal for a law because we hold that it will contribute to the protection of the environment and also to energy savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78697	Thank you. It is up to the HDZ Club and Ms. Marina Matulović-Dropulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78698	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Director of the Board and Madam Representatives. We have before us the final proposal for a law on protection against light pollution that few countries have but we think is absolutely necessary. In fact, harmonised standards and standards on the implementation of external and public lighting apply today in Europe. We use lighting standards in the Republic of Croatia today that prescribe minimum amounts of light in certain cases. As you know, respected MPs and MPs have closed chapter 27. Like all other chapters of course we should all be proud of together and whatever the Law on protection against light pollution was not a condition for harmonising all laws with the European law, we propose that this law be adopted and ensured by it by energy efficiency and protection of people, flora and fauna. This law lays down standards and ways of building public lighting, lighting of different objects, whether they are production, service, housing or business and building facilities. The main objective of all measures but also ways of building and maintaining is to reduce harmful environmental impacts, human health and life, and save energy. Therefore, the procedures and limits prescribed in the Proposal for this Law determine our behaviour in the environment from the construction of hiking trails, trails for cyclists, various roads, airports, railway stations, to the lighting of certain facilities, whether sports facilities or cultural monuments. Particular attention is paid to this final proposal for a law on unnecessary, useless and harmful light emissions to space, taking into account health, biological, economic, security, cultural and other standards and prescribed standards. The proposal for a law gives obligations to lighting operators, equipment manufacturers, and units of local, regional self-government or their concessionaries in which and during which time they need to adapt to the regulations. You all know that public lighting in local self-government units is entrusted to concessionaires based on public competitions. The proposal for a law also lays down the responsibility of the lighting operator which is obliged to bear all costs of preventive measures and measures to eliminate adverse environmental impacts and manufacturers must only produce the equipment that can be used. It is a chance for our manufacturers who already have and who are already producing certain lighting bodies to use all their knowledge and experience in order to start with more production as soon as possible and thus allow competition and our domestic companies, because it is still a great interest for all of us to employ our companies. All units of local self-government are required to develop action plans. As you've already seen, the cards don't have to work anymore, because really local self-governments don't have enough resources, but of course they don't ban anyone who can and who has it to do it. These plans should discuss the coordination, construction and maintenance of public lighting with the provisions of this proposal, and agree with concessionaries entrusted with the reflection of public lighting of the use of lighting bodies that give the same effect but with less energy consumption. So far, over 150 units of local self-government have gone into reconstruction or construction of new public lighting, which is good, especially because public lighting is working today with more standards and special conditions for individual facilities. All these units of local self-government have been provided by the state through the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund and I am sure this will continue. This Final Proposal of the Law on Protection against Lightpollution is in line with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction as well as with the Environmental Protection Act, in particular in the procedures to determine the acceptability of environmental procedures, in which particular attention will be paid to the fulfilment of specific conditions relating to the implementation of measures to protect against light pollution. In the first reading of this law, MPs and representatives, as well as the professional public, have made a series of remarks which the proposer has generally accepted. The HDZ Club requested changes to the deadlines for the reconstruction of existing public lighting due to the inability to provide financial resources by a local self-government unit, as accepted. This means that new public lighting must be built with established standards in this law, and the existing public lighting will adapt to them during the reconstruction or reconstruction. It is good that the law went into two readings because we have now received a very high-quality law which they are pleased with as we have heard from Mrs. Petir and the professional associations who indeed have made it clear on the Committee on Environmental Protection. And not to repeat everything I've talked about in my first reading and what we've heard today, this is a really significant law and law that will certainly be the basis for other countries as well, based on which they will also pass their laws. Therefore, the HDZ Club will be pleased to accept this proposal of the Law on Protection against Lightpollution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78699	Thank you. It is up to the SDP club and Mr Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78700	Honored Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, fellow Members and fellow MPs. Today, the situation at planetary level is such that 99% of the North American population can no longer see our galaxy, Milky Way or Kum's straw in the night sky. So, the galaxy where our solar system is, and so is our planet. In Europe, the situation is only a little more favourable because it is again about 90 to 95 people who are unable to see the Milky Way and even the starry sky. Indeed, it is paradoxical that of all the pollutants we face, light pollution can be easily prevented. After all, concern for the quality of the night sky is also in line with the general Declaration of the rights of future generations issued by UNESCO and which speaks, quote: "The future generations have the right to an unbroken nature, a clean environment, including the right to a clear sky." It is therefore extremely good and important that we in the Republic of Croatia, despite being not obliged, are on the way to pass and adopt this law which could indeed be an example of many Western European countries that do not have similar laws yet. Light pollution, of course, does not hurt, people are not clearly visible in the first wave, the consequences may also not be clearly noticeable, but the fact is that after the adoption of this law, energy consumption will be significantly reduced, hence energy efficiency at the country-wide level, which will result in a reduction and acidic rains, therefore, and a direct impact on reducing the negative effects of climate change. There is also the prevention of many health effects on people and animals such as disturbances of attention and sleep, then excessive lighting is also associated with the possibility of increased blood pressure, influence on vision, and even on very complex mechanisms and on the occurrence of many certain malignancies. There is also the prevention of various negative effects on the environment through the same very complex mechanisms, for example by reducing the production of phytolactone prevents pollution and ecological imbalances in lakes and even in other water surfaces. It is therefore very good that the profession played a key role in interacting with the ministry to pass this law. And this version of the law is compared to the one we had in our first reading extremely improved, is respected by almost all relevant observations of the profession, which is one of the few examples during the work of this Assembly that it is really almost up to the end that listens to the voice of the professional public and not only astronomers but also to the whole interdisciplinary group that has met and discussed in detail this law so that even entire online groups that are not on the daily basis but in the satirical basis of their observations were given to the development of this law. When we adopt this law it will also be, represent the possibility to connect with some other laws in the jurisdiction of other ministries, for example the Ministry of Culture and to work on perhaps some thematic parks of the starry sky or the dark sky, however you will, depending on whether the glass is half-empty or half-full. Because we still have in Central Europe, so we shut down the west, maybe the areas that have the darkest sky, the darkest preserved sky, especially here I mean the areas of some Dalmatian islands as well as the area of Banovina and Kordun. It is not by chance, therefore, that in Banovina, some endemic species of insects, insects who might not even survive if they were exposed to light pollution, have been detected there. And here are some of our scientists who have been invited these days to one of the strongest international conventions in China to interpret their discovery of new species after they published it in the strongest international magazines for taxonomy. So perhaps this law could also become the basis for other areas in Croatia to be declared parks of nature. Zrinska gora area, Petrova mountain area, etc. It is also extremely important that, unlike the first version of the law, there is an expanded definition of light both to infrared and ultraviolet, so also to that part of spectrum that we cannot see in our eyes, to detect our senses that are still limited because we are human. However, the protection against ultraviolet radiation within the meaning of this law is highly intertwined with radiation protection that is defined in the law against ionising radiation, although there are still some irregularities. So, for example, in our country, unlike the Western countries, where it's solved in a way that people who go to the tanning plant have special cards, so it can't happen that two, three times in a day, they go to the tanning plant, so they're literally fried than they have one quota on a bank card. So we, and such finesse at the cross-section of different laws, should begin to resolve some implementing acts and just say laws such as those in which the profession was ultimately involved should serve as an initial step for the voice of the profession to be heard in other cases, especially when relying on the subject of similar laws. So, as my colleague said before, we have temporarily closed Chapter 27, and we have closed all chapters and chapters and chapters 1 on the free movement of goods and now, after the adoption of this law, the remaining activation of precisely the mechanisms set out in Chapter 1 so-called normisation, accreditation, conformity studies, to prohibit the import of those equipment that does not comply with the requirements of international norms and this law as a given, normative act. Therefore, such products will simply no longer have anything to look for on the shelves of Croatian shops or be able to be built into buildings either public, private, which will be built in the future. So it's a law that needs to be supported anyway. And in this difficult hour for physics when it is established that possible speeds are greater than the speed of light which opens up many questions from the very theory and fundamentals of science and even perhaps relativizes the possibility of time travel. Here's a law relating to natural sciences. We bring here in our Parliament and we are pleased to support it and not only with the pleasure of the clubs but also with the pleasure of the profession as a whole and multidisciplinary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78701	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78702	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, I don't know the assistant secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Many of our children imagine or when it comes to cows, then they have the perception that she's purple. So we and many of us have hardly seen the starry sky since childhood. On the map here, which is in some sense the satellite footage of the Republic of Croatia, these dark areas in the Republic of Croatia from which the starry sky can be seen are the area of Zrinska Gora. Here is the next week in Croatia Costanica chestnutade, so the starry sky can be watched next to the chestnuts. Furthermore, almost the entire area of Like, then the area of Velebit, the area of Dinara, the Croatian part of Dinara and our islands. Nature parks have already been talked about. The possibility of a tourist offer in this sense can also be talked about because Croatia, with everything it offers, can offer that part in this sense, and that this proposal for a law on protection against light pollution is accepted unanimously and that the HDSSB club should not even say that the HDSB club will support them with certain remarks and fears. This is precisely what my predecessor said that, after the adoption of this Act, a legislative proposal should be implemented to standardise and accreditation of products and producers. It was also said that the domestic industry would get a chance to participate, therefore in the production and distribution of devices that would fit these legal norms and proposals. In many other fields, it has also been said that domestic industry can, especially when it comes to agriculture and the agricultural industry, and yet we have large import quotas not to say everything and everything. It would be nice if this in good faith and intentions in this part were exactly the opposite. Therefore, that import element is significantly reduced and that domestic producers are no matter where they are from, but if they are from the territory of the Republic of Croatia, they also get a chance to invest in public lighting and other jobs, it is they who will be suppliers of lighting bodies and all other devices that go into this law. I'm not gonna say I'm afraid I don't have faith, but as everything else goes, it could be with this supply, public procurement and everything else that goes along with it. When we talk about the highest standards in protecting against light pollution, then we must be aware that today and other things that burden our citizens, our society, our state, and for example one information that in Slavonia and Baranja 40% of households do not have hydrogen. So there's no drinking water. Of course I won't be against the adoption of such a law, but I need to make sure that the water as it was yesterday debated that the human being has over 60% water and that the water needs as we saw this summer are also very important, if not more significant than this. But I don't want to diminish the value of this bill or talk about not adopting it. That uncertainty about which a colleague from the HNS club spoke about who is responsible for the costs of prevention, whether the owner or the lighting operator is a dilemma or a doubt that remains and when this law is left, then I guess we'll probably at some other time, and we'll either do it by a regulation like someone said here because during the implementation of this law or as said in walking, it can be fixed and it can be fixed if already this law goes on, today, to be adopted. The harmfulness, the effects of electromagnetic radiation, then the harmfulness of flashing, I don't need to talk about because it's true, and in the first reading they were right here to elaborate on the impact on flora, fauna, on man. It's enough to ask each and every one of us how he feels if he spends the night or a dream in a room where the light burns. Therefore, this is not to be discussed. And about the adverse effects of light, about the adverse effect of flashing, about the adverse effect of the intensity of light and everything that is stated here. The HDSSB club will therefore also be for this legal proposal, as will all other clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78703	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78704	So I didn't say that in the sense of this law it was necessary to carry out normisation and accreditation, but I said that a compliance system should be activated. Namely, the standards relating to excessive light pollution and the specification of lighting bodies and other equipment have long existed through the action of the international standardisation organisation and we simply accepted it through the work of the Croatian normative institution, because we were obliged to accept it since we had committed that 85% of European and international standards must be accepted in order to meet the criteria for joining full membership in the European Union. However, it is now necessary to activate that quality infrastructure component relating to the conformity test, and now the second thing is whether it is functional or not, since the European Commission has had certain objections to the functioning of the method of testing compliance in its report on Chapter 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78705	Thank you. We will now move to an individual debate, but before yesterday, as the vote on the agenda points we discussed was announced and will be concluded at 12 o'clock, as well as the addition of the agenda, which we will propose. That's what I'm saying for the club leaders to be able to ensure the presence of representatives and representatives at 12 o'clock, so I'm asking that we ensure that, so here we go in an hour and a half. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Ivan Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78706	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, fellow Members and colleagues. As we have already heard before us, the final proposal of the Law on Protection against Light pollution is, and as most of my previous speakers, I will express my satisfaction that, after the first reading and a series of quality proposals, the same has been incorporated into this law, and in this way we have received one quality law and I say at the very beginning that I support the adoption of this law. Light pollution represents a change in the level of natural light in night conditions, caused by the introduction of artificial light into space outside the zone to be illuminated by human activity, and day and night in natural underground objects. Protection against light pollution is determined on the basis of health, biological, economic, cultural, legal, security, astronomical and other standards. The largest light pollutants are outdoor lighting on public surfaces, business facilities, road production facilities, cultural monuments, religious and sacral facilities, etc. The adoption of this law and the applicable rules will make it mandatory for lighting operators to adapt local and regional self-government units to public lighting and public lighting to the prescribed standards. The maximum cost of spent electricity is borne by local self-government units, while the smaller part of the costs are borne by companies, institutions and others. The adjustment to the prescribed standards requires certain financial costs, mainly for the restoration of lighting and replacement of lighting bodies, and I find it positive that it has given up the original proposal to do the same within 5 years of the entry into force of this law, although the Environmental Protection Fund allocates large resources and gives support to local self-government units, I believe that the largest majority of local self-government could not provide the means to ensure that it participates in these projects. Croatian highways and other companies will certainly make it easier to adapt to the prescribed standards, and this law also provides for the obligations of product manufacturers used for lighting, as well as inspection of the implementation of this law that conducts environmental protection inspection and economic inspection each in its own work. Articles 34 to 36 also provide for criminal provisions for operators and responsible legal and natural persons, it is a fact that external public lighting is a need and that it represents a civilizational gain of a modern society, exactly protected lighting bodies represent a solution to the problem of global pollution, and the positive results of the implementation of this law will be visible through a more favourable impact on the environment, reducing electricity consumption, achieving monetary savings, improving health security, the safety of transport participants and the possibility of enjoying the starry sky. Also, this is an opportunity for our economy by investing in new technologies, the production of new savings lighting bodies can certainly create new jobs. I support the adoption of this law, and I believe that there will be a way through financial support, mainly to local self-government units for its... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78707	Thank you. It's Mr. Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78708	I thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. All the speakers so far have expressed their satisfaction with the embedded and accepted changes in this second reading, and I share their thinking. Here is the meaning of this law: protection against light pollution, principles and protection, entities implementing protection, means of establishing standards for the management of lighting in order to reduce the consumption of electricity and other energy, and mandatory means of lighting shall be determined by means of protection against excessive lighting, restrictions and prohibitions in relation to light pollution, planning of construction, maintenance of lighting reconstruction, the responsibility of product manufacturers serving lighting and other persons, other issues related to this. Under the light pollution of the environment... the emissions of light from artificial light sources that affect human health, the life of plants and animals that threaten traffic safety. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Light pollution forms include pollution caused by ultraviolet and infrared waves. Protection against light pollution is determined on the basis of health, biological, economic, cultural, legal, security, astronomical and other standards. The problem of light pollution is present globally, and so is our problem in Croatia. So in the Republic of Croatia, Croatian lighting standards are applied, which prescribe minimum amounts of light in appropriate cases... The level of individual light-technical parameters other than the ecological effect would also be achieved by energy and financial positive effects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the purpose of effective action in this direction, the need for education of personnel involved in designing, supplying and installing lighting systems and lighting management systems shall be indicated. The adoption of this law and the implementing rules of this law will make it an obligation for lighting operators to public lighting and lighting public areas to adapt to the prescribed standards, thus improving the efficiency of the implementation of electricity consumption savings. The law will make a significant contribution and protection of human health against the adverse impact of light pollution and brightening of light surfaces will contribute to more efficient road safety, will have a significant impact on the protection of the environment as a whole and on the protection of certain environmental components from negative impacts from light pollution, will also contribute to the efficient planning of electricity consumption and savings planning. The protection against light pollution is based on respect and an appropriate change in the principle of environmental protection governed by the law governing environmental protection, the application of the principle of international environmental protection law and the respect of scientific knowledge and best world practices. The basic principles are the principle of energy efficiency, the principle of justification, the principle of optimisation and the principle of restriction. I also share my satisfaction with other colleagues that there has been a change in Article 38, that is, Article 39, when a suggestion has been accepted to abolish the five-year period for local self-government units to replace existing lighting bodies. Therefore, the existing lighting bodies will be replaced in accordance with the maintenance plan required by the operator, which is, in some ways, again and again, the precondition for both operators and local self-government units to reach that replacement in accordance with their financial potential. Here, once again, I share my pleasure and I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78709	Thank you. Madam Representative Mirela Holly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78710	Thank you, Your Honor. At the very beginning of the debate, I would like to say that I will support the adoption of this bill and I am pleased that the law between the two readings has been significantly corrected, i.e. that an extremely large number of objections to the first reading bill have been observed. What makes me much less happy is that the government decided at the end of the term of office to take measures aimed at greater environmental protection and that energy savings are extremely important. Although a large number of European countries do not have such a law, other European countries have significantly more effective measures to increase energy efficiency and save energy, this law is a key regulation for raising energy efficiency in lighting and it is good that we will have more energy saving public lighting, which will significantly reduce public lighting costs in the longer term. But I fear that in terms of increasing energy efficiency in light, this will not be enough. In fact, what is missing in Croatia are tax reliefs for energy efficiency projects in light. So far, the practice has gone towards financial detiming energy inefficient lighting bodies, but there are no measures to stimulate the population to buy more energy-efficient and energy-efficient lighting bodies by tax relief. The practice so far has been that the fund shares money mainly with local self-government units. So far, it seems to me that there have been over 150 of them for energy efficiency projects in light of what has been spent so far, at least that's what the data says, 44 million kuna. How effective this money is today is a big question when we remember how otherwise money from the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund has been spent over the last 7, 8 years. In addition to this quality law, the ministry decided two months before the elections to publish a document or plan for the green development of Croatia in which energy efficiency in light has its place. I read this document quite superficially yesterday, and in it I found a whole series of extremely good and quality measures, but I can't be revolved by the fact that the ministry has such an extremely important plan, a strategic plan, placed at the very end of the mandate. What does that tell us? This tells us that if the government and the ministry have not recognized the importance of green development in Croatia in the past 8 years, they certainly do not recognize it now and do not have to implement the projects mentioned in the document. The only reason this document has seen the light of day, and I'm afraid the law we're discussing today and we're about to adopt, so the only reason for a sudden increase in awareness of the importance of environmental protection of the ruling set is the recent elections and pre-election campaign. But ladies and gentlemen from the ruling parties it will not help you because if you were not enough 8 years to realize at least some of the projects from the green development of Croatia and thus the growth of energy efficiency in light, then you will not be enough or you will not be enough for 4, 8 or even 100 years to do so. You've simply spent the citizens' trust. And finally, only the fact that energy consumption per GDP unit in Croatia is so-called energy intensity is above 20% than the EU average, which is a huge burden for both the economy and the environment. Since that percentage has not been reduced at all in the last eight years and has drawn close to the energy average, I am asking you a question from the secretary of state since you represent here and the resolution ministry and the government, what have you been doing so far? I think the Croatian public deserves an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78711	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78712	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here's what I'd like to correct is the inaccuracies of my colleague Holly at the very beginning when, in this beautiful and beautiful so-called political pledoaje because she obviously wanted to turn the most two into a policy of this one, she said that the government is only now starting the proposal now, so this law and solving this problem. Well, fellow Holly, that's not true. I am one of the local self-government leaders, and I can confirm specifically in my city how much has been done and how much has therefore been made in terms of changes in public lighting. And you've had enough of the information that you mentioned yourself, so you're actually refuting yourself, is that this problem began to grow long before including 147 towns and municipalities in the Republic to solve this issue where you yourself said 44 million kunas were invested depending on the distribution according to the projects that were therefore submitted. So this question has been resolved for a very long time. And you should know that if the City of Zagreb were to replace these outdated, outdated lighting bodies so that it could compensate for the money that would change for electricity in all the kindergartens of the city of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78713	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78714	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. I'm on Article 1. This Law was given by one amendment simply to underline and stress that, apart from the manufacturer, the responsibility for this law should be borne by authorised designers, supervisors or contractors or by a short person with public authority, so I suggested that Article 1. It extends in a way that, even beyond the responsibilities of the product manufacturer who serves the lighting, the responsibility of persons with public authority for the use of the products used for lighting and other persons already in the Law and other issues related to this. In fact, this Law implies that these persons are also responsible for everything that has been conditioned by law, so why don't you make it explicit and say what we're afraid of or don't let God shame us. Unfortunately, the amendment I see isn't yet, it's here. The other thing that should be noted may not yet be clear to the end that, in the sense of this law, those laser beams are forbidden to the sky, which are as harmful to health or the environment and as dangerous as they are to the environment. After all, I'm thinking of wide beams of light, because these laser beams as such we had a chance to read a few days ago that irresponsible criminal individuals were playing blinding aircraft pilots who landed at the Dance or some other airports. It's a criminal act of normal, but also those beams at disco clubs or similar public gatherings, in the sense of this law should be banned, it's only a matter of effective inspections to prevent it. I hope it doesn't all go down on the fact that communal monks have until 4:00 p.m. and then everything stops, and then everyone can do whatever they want from parking on the green surfaces and to situations like this. And finally, I would like to underline one moment that this law represents a significant potential niche related to the tourist offer, because if these terms are cornered, it is evident that there is a whole spectrum of people who want to taste, see, experience the dark sky. These are not necessarily just astronomers these are nature lovers and the resulting law should be communicated not only through the mechanisms of the Ministry of Environment but also by the tourism ministry which, unfortunately, is only in the tourism promotion that revolves on CNN has concentrated on the Dalmatian coast and our sea, but here they have once again really pearls and adjudications that could be used in their promotion. In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture pointed out in its action plan for organic food production with a sum of analysis that cooperation between organic food producers should be strengthened, with ecological tourism. If this is not the kind of ecological tourism I do not know what, therefore, it should all be imported into a coherent campaign to show not only the Europeans but also the whole world that I can experience here something that North America does not have, which Europe has lost and that people here can enjoy the unpaved glow of stars as they looked 13.5 million years ago when the universe and our universe came into existence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78715	Thank you. And as the last in the debate at this point, Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78716	Thank you, Mr. President. I am happy to join the debate on protecting against light damage, and I would like to begin by first congratulating that this topic is at all debated and brought into a legal framework, because in the world but also in Croatia, especially in some parts of the world, there is nothing known about the problem of light pollution, and in fact there is no possibility of light damage, those who do not have any light in their space, have no electricity, etc., and then the question of light is a very important topic. The category of light is also a category of metaphorically well used because there is really a lot to say through the light and the need for light, a lot to say, so here I see in the debate table something that can be reduced to 2 more than 2 equal 4 still within some political debate or basis for political criticism. I would if I had the need for such a debate then I would have brought the debate on light pollution to political praise to discuss it. However, the pollution of light is indeed one phenomenon to which we happily approach in time compared to many others. And I would agree with my colleague Franic, who speaks of the importance of this dimension of the dark, there is no blue sky, especially the summer sky, the stars representing one tourist category as one of the values we can boast of. I personally witness one encounter with one of the watchers of the Republic of Croatia living in California who was thrilled to see the sky one summer day in Brač and said that such blackness or the blue black sky had long had no chance to see. So it can really represent one and a commercial moment in tourism but in itself it does not talk about the attractiveness of this sky, the beauty of that sky that can be experienced, but also about the attractiveness and quality of the air or the state of the atmosphere above us that allows us to reach that sky with our own eye and reach it. So, the story of light pollution is also the story of the state of air in one space, because in industrial environments when buffers of air are created above the city, above the middle then you get a reflection of light that is potentially greater than it would be from the very source of light. Today's technologies of the production of lighting bodies take great care of that. When I talk about the production of lighting bodies, then it's not just the export of lighting, it's also that lighting body that this lighting source is holding. Thus, by switching to the ice lamps and to the ice lighting and discussion about the warmth of the light, the concentration of light is extremely helpful as little pollution of space with light as possible. But also these selected lighting bodies that direct these lights in a particular direction bring about possible effects that have not been taken into account before, and are now encouraged only because they are taken into account and do not constitute any additional cost. It's a question of directional lighting that goes towards the sky, going up or going down. That part of the illuminating body that's actually in the dark of the light that's spreading in a space where it's not needed and the lights are going to where it's right now. Just as it is very important because of light pollution, and this is a question of degreeing the amount of light compared to the time of day compared to the night and the need and lighting as lighting or lighting of space so that certain activities can take place in it. What represents possible significant light pollution is a category adopted by a conditionally spoken civilization, which is advertising panois, ads that brighten with greater intensity to be more visible and significantly changing the quality of experience in the night. We've recently been to Iceland in the conversations we've had, and we've come to amazing knowledge of which we're quite far away. Of course, the natural resources of Iceland are significantly different from those of us, but the thought of using available energy sources like geothermal waters that they have in large quantities. And when you come to the fact that the total energy consumption in Iceland is about 85% on the basis of renewable energy sources, when you realize that aluminium is produced in Iceland, and that the boxers don't at all have just because it's cheap electricity because they have so much, then you see that one culture of thinking about using alternative sources in relation to those familiar, simply brings man into a situation that his mental circuit starts to think differently about all the problems. And when he starts to think differently about all the problems, then he sees how much that can be done in terms of a better relationship with our environment by just one click on his own computer, on his own brain, which didn't even think about the things around him. And so it seems to me that this topic of protection against light pollution is a subject which is in many ways resolute without any particular effort, with no special costs, with no special effects, and should only be remembered to draw attention to it and to introduce itself into the law in circumstances in which not only these pollutions will be less, but it will be more rational to use energy at the same time in the same act. I’m in a film recently talked about by my colleague Franić in one CSI when some green laser came to an accident and so it can be really dangerous and restricting the use of certain lasers that are used in locks today to open doors, but it can also be harmful to use by directing someone in the eye, it should increase and strengthen education by schools about how useful light can be, and how much light in itself can cause not only unpleasant but also harmful consequences. In any case, I support this, I actually congratulate you on talking about this topic, and I hope that we will never get to the point of what in one witty interpretation says is the question of who will last turn off the light, that we will never need to turn it off, no one last to turn off the light, but to use ourselves with light much more rationally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78717	Thank you. And ultimately state secret Mr. Nikola Ruzhinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78718	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I'd like to thank you for the support you've given this law and it's really nice to be here when we have this kind of support. It is that we have also accepted a large number of useful remarks, but I really think this law will be one of the laws that will run certain things about the ones you've been talking about today. I'd like to answer a few questions that have been asked. In particular, it was the question of Article 18, the responsibility of the operator or the owner that certain misunderstandings could arise. I don't think so, that thing's completely clean. The operator seems to have full responsibility for what he's doing, and the owner, when he doesn't have an operator, is responsible. So this is one level of responsibility that cannot be avoided, so there will be no problem with that. I would say to the honourable representative Franic that Article 22(3) covers the danger of these directed laser lights, etc. As regards ICA or infrared lighting, there is Article 3(2), so there are some things that are covered, and I think that part will be well solved in this law. I mentioned here in my statement that this law would run and give home producers a chance. In front of the HDSSB club, it was also said that a chance should be given. There have been talk of norms, norms to prohibit importing lighting that is not in accordance with this law. This will be the consequence of the Regulation and the rules to be adopted, so that part falls within the implementing part. And distinguished representative Mirela Holly gave her presentation, but she also asked some questions. I don't know if the Honorable President can answer these questions so I can say political questions. So what we've been doing so far, what this government has been doing. This government has been working in this section on environmental protection, and one system has launched, just to say one small part of it, a system of management of specific categories of waste that has opened 4,000 new jobs. We have also received recognition of this system at the level of the United Nations, CSD, but also from the European Union. We have had several visits to delegations and countries of the European Union that have come to watch our system of management of specific categories of waste. I think it's one of the big credits. Here it was mentioned about the environmental lighting that is already under way and which is financed through the fund. There are also a number of projects that have been launched in the system of building renewable energy sources. Protection or energy efficiency is one of the most important parts, and I am particularly glad that you managed to see that the government brought in the strategic foundations of green development yesterday, which includes that part. Why did the government bring strategic foundations now at the end of the term, I can give you one simple answer. It's a preparation to be made by the next government and I believe that we will deal with it in the next term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78719	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Protection against Light pollution, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 699. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Zdenko Franic. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown on the amendment submitted by Mr Nikola Ruzhinski, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78721	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. We have an amendment to Article 1 supplementing the responsibility of persons with public authority for the use of products for lighting purposes. We cannot accept this amendment because we believe that all responsibilities are contained in the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78722	Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78723	Mr. Secretary of State, you just said that you think all the responsibilities are covered by the law, and I've just suggested that this statement be covered by really all the responsibilities. The amendment is extremely benign, it changes absolutely nothing in terms of the whole law, but only precises what the law refers to. Therefore, if they are covered why we do not have it here in the Croatian Assembly of Courage to say that they are covered. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78724	Thank you. Who is for this amendment, Mr. Franic? Thank you. The amendment didn't get the necessary majority, so let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 90 votes, 4 abstentions and 1 against. We move to the next item on agenda 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 870 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Josip Lozancic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78726	I welcome the honourable gathering and thank the president. As regards the amendment of the Income Tax Act, only two articles of the law are provided for in the amendments. Therefore, the amendment of the existing Article 14 will allow employers to grant loans to their employees at an interest rate of 3% and above and that this is not considered to be a taxable income, i.e. by income from independent work. The relevant law allows employers to lend such loans and thus will eventually allow for cheaper and faster lending that will significantly help both the emerging situation in the capital market and possibly lead to a reduction of interest rates given by commercial banks to their clients. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The law will ensure that data on dividend recipients and share in profits are collected in a simple way, and that is important for most state institutions in terms of the collection of property data, and in particular for the exercise of certain possible rights. In the present state of affairs, there is no record of recipients of such receipts in one place which can be of a much greater nature, and it may occur that individual recipients of certain social benefits may have such benefits that do not deserve the fact that they can make other incomes. At the same time, since other laws provide that such payments are mandatory to be paid through a jury account and such provision is deleted in the Article of the Income Tax Act. Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78727	Thank you. Committees on Legislative, Finance and State Budget, Labour and Social Partnership, Local and Regional Self-Government? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78728	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We are discussing a law which, in a word, is brief and its amendments to two of these provisions that we will discuss basically for the SDP club are acceptable, so we have no great reason not to accept them. We will support them, but right away I want to say that there are problems when it comes to the tax system and in this law is not in these amendments and in these provisions. These provisions will not help, but they will not help much, or we will see how much they will help solve our problems. The problems of the Croatian economy when it comes to the tax system and when it comes to citizens and the maintenance of the tax system, they are much more complex and much more important, and these changes will therefore not solve it significantly. So these changes are more cosmetical than they will really contribute to solving the Croatian economy's crucial problems and the standard of Croatian citizens. The provisions on how to keep tax records, just before the State Secretary spoke of it, of paid dividends and profit shares is generally fine, acceptable. She's going to regulate it in a simpler way, so in one place we're going to have a total record, it's basically acceptable. However, it is not a problem for the Croatian economy to record profit and share payments, it is not a key problem. The key problem is whether you get it has, how the Croatian economy operates, whether it is profitable or not profitable. The State should influence all its tax policy measures to enable them to gain you, not how it will be recorded. Unfortunately, in the last eight years, this ruling policy has not provided adequate solutions. I'm not talking in my head. Let's look at the results of the Croatian economy for the past year and they are truly devastating. If you take Croatia's consolidated balance sheet of the total Croatian economy in all Croatian companies, it is such that when all the profits are summed up, all the losses that the Croatian economy has done with the loss. So that's what it looks like at the state level and it's really devastating. So the expenditures of Croatian companies were higher than the revenues. And overall, looking at the Croatian economy, it was a loss business. Therefore, it is a key problem for the Croatian economy not to record its profits, but whether it is and how big it is. Therefore, consolidated at country level if the entire Croatian economy were one company at all. I'm not crying when I'm saying this over what business owners won't get, so they won't pay their dividends or profits, so they won't have anything to live on. It's not gonna be a problem. It's a bigger problem when workers don't get paid because they live only on their salary, and unfortunately there's a lot more to it than this. So, when I talk about it, I don't cry over it, but I'm simply saying that the problem is that the Croatian economy is bad, it's bad business, and the good part of it is the merits under quotes are also these governments with their economic policy. So, the problem is that the Croatian economy has more expenditure in total than income, which has no profit, which has no new value, which has no investment, no new employment, no development, no new salaries, and that is a fundamental problem. Of course it is, why is that? Someone's gonna say there's a recession all around the world, so here we are. And it is true that the recession, however our problems are not just because of the recession. A good part of our problems, economic problems are also because it has been badly done especially in the last few years since the HDZ government. That this is how we see that all the countries in our environment and members of the European Union recover faster than we do. Many already have rates of growth of four, five, even more. Unfortunately, Croatia still, unfortunately Germany, Lithuania etc. I beg the chairman not to interrupt me. There is a Rules of Procedure in this Chamber and how it can be corrected and replicated, etc., and not this way. I mean, you guys weren't much in the Parliament, but you probably read the Rules of Procedure. So you won't confuse me. The problem is, therefore, not because of the recession, but because certain poor economic policy measures have led to this situation. Because I'm saying it's just a recession problem we'd be recovering like everyone else, not much worse or worse than everyone else in our environment. This is especially evident when we talk about the results of the economy in that part of the economy in which the government, on behalf of the citizens, directly governs us all. These are the ones where the state, owner or majority owner, and there are also the data defeating. There, the government would be twice interested in making that economy, that part of the economy it manages directly to be profitable. First of all, yes, because of the overall results, but also because the owner has certain benefits. Unfortunately, the results are devastating, too. For 2009, therefore, in all those companies ruled by the majority owner or the 100% owner, the loss was consolidated over 2 and a half billion. So the total revenues of all these companies were about 74 billion, and the total expenditure was 76.7 billion. So almost two and a half billion is the loss of these companies, so the government directly manages. That's how it was in 2009. Since 2010, unfortunately we still don't know even though we're already in the second half of 2011, because we don't have the data. But that's how it was in 2009. Let's remind ourselves, in that year 2009, when this majority of parliament and this government said there was no crisis, that everything was okay, that it shouldn't have been mentioned then because we were in trouble, and we were in all kinds of problems. And that's the key problem that always tries to smooth your eyes and say that there are no problems, that everything is great, wonderful and wonderful, and the problems were quite present. And the people can have their eyes stained for a short time, but not in the long term. And now that you see the problems they are, unfortunately they've expanded that it's harder and harder to solve. So the importance of changing the law when it comes to this point should be how to help with the starting policy that the economy works better and make it more profitable, not how to record that profit which unfortunately is becoming less and less profitable. As regards the second provision, when it comes to interest or so-called favourable interest, it is basically an acceptable proposal, but it comes late. Why? For example, what's this about? So, if a company gives its employee a loan out, a housing loan that a man buys an apartment and at 2% interest the state said well, it's more favourable than on the market, or more favourable than those legal provisions of 4%. E to that difference between 4% and 2% you pay taxes because it's considered a receipt as being paid. Now it's down to 3%, which is fine. It could have been going in some other ways, straight to... etc. but not according to a fixed size of 3% or good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please, nice. But it's too late. What company today, which is unfortunately going to give its employee 100,000, 50,000, 80000 euros of credit at a favourable interest of 2% to buy an apartment, build a house etc. Unfortunately very rare, almost none. Companies have problems paying people basic things – pay, let alone give them more favourable conditions. In doing so, I will benefit only from those who have already realised it a few years ago while the wolf walked the earth. But today, unfortunately, it won't help anyone anymore, because simply companies don't have the means to give, and even I would say loans to my employees on market terms, let alone more favourable. That's why this came late, if it had come long before it would have been... This actually wants to get your eyes dirty and say something is given, helped, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's given yes, but on paper. However, it really won't be given much, and on this basis, it certainly won't be much use for citizens and for our economy either. So I'm saying that this is a solution for both of us, basically acceptable, but it's not going to benefit much from them. So it won't hurt much, but it won't help that the government wanted to do it when it comes to the tax police something really important and quality in the tax system could have done it, it can do it still or if it doesn't know it or doesn't want to do it it it could support quality proposals when others proposed. In this House, as a SDP club, we have proposed a number of good legal proposals to help the Croatian economy, and also to help Croatian citizens directly. For example. We have suggested that, when we talk about interest rates, to tax high interest rates, especially those for housing loans, to lower interest rates in this way, to make it easier for citizens to handle existing housing loans, and easier to get into new ones. But the government did not accept it, it was last year, in December of last year the government rejected it because it is obvious that it is more important to protect the interests of banks, 10 banks in Croatia, or I do not know how many of their owners are mostly outside, so their interest is clearly protected, not the interest of Croatian citizens. Or, for example, We have proposed in this House that, when it comes to profit, it does not tax the profit that will be reinvested, which will be invested in new development or that which will remain in the company as a retained profit for liquid liquidity. The government didn't accept that either. And it's been denied. And government, and this ruling majority when it comes to dividend and share taxes, etc. There are no, there are no certain solutions that would be fair, fair, fair, especially in these difficult times, and that is that every receipt is taxed, and that, taxing income based on work, but basically capital not, because obviously this government protects the interests of capital, not protecting the interests of workers and workers and those living from their work. So these would be the right proposals if they came and they would help the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens. Those who have come are acceptable, they will not be able to rest, but unfortunately they will not help much, and will not solve Croatia's circular economy and Croatian citizens' problems. So we will support these proposals because in principle I say I will not be able to help, we do not act as the ruling majority, we accept what is not bad, unlike the ruling majority who never accepts when it comes from the other side of the opposition, and even when it is something good, I have now cited a few examples that so, we would therefore accept this proposal, we would love, it would be good for Croatia that, if the ruling majority and the government had often accepted our good proposals, unfortunately we did not, we did not have the majority to realise it, to spend these good proposals, but I hope and believe in Croatian citizens that we would have the majority in a few months. Thank God the elections are quick, that we will have that majority, and we will be able to implement all our good proposals and legal solutions, and that we will help the Croatian economy and the standard of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78729	Thank you. Three corrections. First Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78730	Thank you very much. Well, it's incorrect what a colleague said a lot, but here's just something. He said companies stand badly, and this is due to the government's economic policy. Not only is that incorrect, it is nebulosis, because it is not the government's fault and for Zagreb's Holding in which the gentleman dealt with human problems and put people at the helm of companies that have been robbing the citizens of Zagreb for years, and that is why USKOK is there, but USKOK is also in the city's headship, and the gentleman was one of the leaders and leaders. So it's your fault. So it's SDP's fault that just installs such personnel that rob citizens, steal, and that's why 50 million you admitted to stealing from the Holding of the City of Zagreb citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78731	And Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78732	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, he incorrectly stated that since the HDZ government didn't have any investments, there hasn't been any employment. Well, here's only if you'd read the data from the Employment Service you'd know that this year, over 129 thousand people are employed, only this year from the 1st to the 8th month. Further investments that I do not speak, obviously you are walking only in Zagreb and you do not see investments because they do not happen in Zagreb because of the authorities you have in Zagreb, you were unable to arrange relations in kindergarten, and you are talking about the state of the country. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78733	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go. ... Yeah, that's right, yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me. The responsibility lies on this right of me, because who will, someone must be. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78734	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So we are obviously facing a purely technical change of the Income Tax Act, but when it goes a little deeper then it will be seen that this technical change, that it is not a technical change only, but that certain provisions that are prescribed that this law should enter into force and apply in the next period will give us an answer to a series of issues that we may now be politically bickering about, and we have a diametrically opposite political opinion, and even colleague Jelusic, in his debate on behalf of the club, has brought forth certain thesis that are totally contrary to what SDP is provoking, so I will try to elaborate it in an argument in his debate, and not presenting any data that are so random and by heart. In times of crisis, six months is a lot, and talking about data that are a year and a half old is a total deplacement, because in 2009, the year was when the entire world economy collapsed, 2010 was a year of stabilization somewhere, and somewhere there were certain shifts, only 2011 indicates positive or somewhere negative shifts, but as you can see at this point, the global stock market is shaking again. And look yesterday at a dramatic debate in the German Parliament about the fight to save the euro, and we in Croatia act as if it were our business, as if we were outside all that together, as if it had no effect on us at all, and our most significant external trade partners are just the euro area member states. Therefore, we cannot talk about Croatia, about the state of the economy in Croatia, not to say that this is none of our business. Well, you saw yesterday in Germany a very, very dramatic parliamentary debate about whether or not the euro zone will be saved, and the whole world and all the world's stock markets were expecting what will happen, and we here in Croatia today are discussing it as if it's none of our business and it has nothing to do with each other. So the first provision that the interest rate, if someone credits their worker from 4% to 3% and that it is not considered to be a measure of some kind and does not tax, was once a criterion for this being an econcentrate rate, you have a lot of inspection findings and even in some eminent state houses where income taxes are determined precisely on behalf of workers being credited less than the rate prescribed by law. As regards the fact that Article 4 also changes that Article 2 no longer requires the Income Tax Act to condition that dividends are paid to the jury account because it is regulated by some other laws very interesting here is the debate of colleagues from the SDP club. So, speaking of dividends, they argue that there is no, that all is a disaster, as this is, and at the same time in the draft laws they have proposed that taxing dividends will result in a great deal of income so that certain revenues can be reduced. It's something that just isn't true. However, the provision of this law will lead us to see exactly how many owners in Croatia, co-owners of the company's shares have a dividend payment, what is the income from that dividend and how much of it will be collected tax. Because when you take it, turn off just a few big companies, and I'm thinking first of all about T-HT and some other INA, etc., which have bigger profits, the question is how much is the profits of these smaller companies and how much would be paid by taxing dividends to the state budget. Also, the key issue that constantly revolves in Croatia when it comes to taxing profits is this reinvested profit. So, when we see this data, then we'll see in principle who really has the money to reinvest this profit more significantly in some manufacturing processes, some new plants that are going to make him some kind of profit tomorrow. So, apparently, the technical change of the law tomorrow opens a series of analytical data based on which you will be able to make better decisions because if you make a decision on taxing dividends then one question is asked – in 2004, the decision was abolished, when you look at economic growth in Croatia was then about 5% round, but when you look at profit tax revenues in 2005, then in 2003 you will see that income from profit tax jumped over 100%. And when you add dividend tax revenue to that profit tax that was paid in 2003, you'll see and jump to that. So, looking at the state side, that was one stimulating measure. On the other hand, talk about the need to attract investors with various reliefs while taxing dividends at the same time is something that is contrary. And in the end, you don't have to fight it, it's just a matter of political opinion. The SDP believes it should be done, HDZ believes it should not be done because this is a stimulating measure for all investors. Because look at Croatia with this measure with the relief it has for investors and those who open plants in areas of special state care has definitely the lowest effective profit tax rate in the region. That's the facts. When you talk to your colleague Jelusic about income from income tax and income tax, then you need to compare in 2011 and 2010. So that's the fresh data. Thus, for some 7 months the profit tax increased compared to last year, income from profit tax increased 14%, and income tax 6%, income tax income regardless, and you forgot to say that because you did not contribute that last year from 1.07. reduced income tax rate, she first and basic, from 15 to 12%. So the HDZ Club will support this bill. I also said why. And the other thing is, it's not true, and it's not true that this information that you said about state-owned companies is so down. Just look at the final accounts for 2010 and then you'll see that what you said is just nebulosis. Maybe if you add Holding to that, but without holding the profits of the majority Croatian-owned companies, it is in plus. So just take that HEP from one loser came to a company that has a billion and 600 million kuna profits. I don't want to talk to other companies. In 2009, INA had minus a billion and 100, a billion and 200 million kuna, and in 2010, it ended up with a billion and 200 million kuna. So it's not good at times like this to talk about data that are a few years old just to maybe impress someone politically. So, apparently technical change, but a change that means something anyway. And rest assured, to whom an employer can lend credit to overcome some of his personal problems this reduction from 4% to 3% means, perhaps more than some political ones. And otherwise those tax proposals that you've been talking about, and that should be repeated over and over again, they bring the state budget 14 billion minus precisely because of this point of the agenda. I re-read some data last night, so your proposal to cut various contributions, taxes, make it easier to make 14 billion kunas less into the state budget. Therefore, it clearly states how analytically you have approached certain things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78735	Thank you. Two corrections. First, Mr. Representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78736	Thank you. Well, there'd be a few corrections, unfortunately time doesn't allow it. First, it's exactly what I am, it's incorrect what you said about getting companies run by the state. I'm talking about the data, so I said 76.7 billion were expenses, incomes 70. That's the data this government has been tracking down for us here in the Parliament. I'm sorry the finance minister didn't know that, and he managed the state's finances. I don't have the data for this year because we just didn't get them. When you deliver, we'll see what the results are for this year. Secondly, as regards comparisons with the EU, that we are about to compare and not view Croatia as an isolated island, let us compare with the EU and the countries in the environment. And it is they who are recovering better than Croatia. This is our tragedy and this is the problem and this is the problem that the Croatian government cannot solve, and that is to take such measures of economic policy to recover at least as much as everyone around us in our environment in the EU, and unfortunately this is not happening.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78737	Mr. Representative Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78738	Thank you very much, two corrections. There's one about public companies. The colleague Jelusic said that Mr Schuker probably wasn't here last year when we had a report – more than 4.5 billion kuna losses to public companies. And you just can't comment on it anymore. If someone says it's a good business and it's a win-win, and what, how do you do that in the first place? And another thing, to say that it will be a loss for the state budget if you release the corporate profit tax for the reinvested profit is again a elemental thing that you can conclude by simple mathematics that it is not true. If you reinvest each kuna profits and more than half of that money is returned to the budget through various other taxes, contributions etc. And that's the problem of Mr. Shucker who looked at everything mathematically but didn't look at the depth and the wider. Of course, we are not the only ones who have observed it, and some others have, and we have been able to read about it in the past few days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78739	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78740	Article 209 has been injured. - A colleague Maras would be correct if you correct something to correct what I said. However, your economic nebulises are impossible to correct, so do not try to correct the facts with nebuloses.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78741	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, please. One more breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78742	Article 209 has been injured. I think so. Mr. Shuker didn't say anything at all, he mentioned some nebuloses, his values, and he didn't touch at all what the breach of the Rules of Procedure was in fact, unfortunately. You didn't warn him and take away his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78743	He said that you listened a little more carefully, he said that you were correcting his allegations and he didn't say anything like that at all. That you were correcting something he didn't say. All right, come on, Mr. Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78744	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So by amending the Income Tax Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia allows employers to grant loans to their employees at more favourable interest rates, i.e. The bottom line of interest will be reduced by one point, from the current 4% to 3%. The government's intention is noble, socially encouraging for those employers who can help their workers especially at times when the fluctuation of foreign exchange rates is when many citizens are faced with the inability to pay off credit, with financial problems and with the increasingly weak survival potential. Surely, many workers in Croatia would have helped this type of credit to solve existential problems both for workers and for their families. Unfortunately, though, the image of the Croatian employer is not so generous so that few of them are helping their workers in this way. It would not be good for this noble intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to benefit those who have so far been in a more favourable position to pay their salaries and various fees to their employees such as the Croatian National Bank, banks of various, state-owned companies or local communities. They will, above all, provide such a loan to management members but some private companies will give such loans to family members and owners while I fear that the worker will not receive what the government proposes or that this reduction of interest will not be too much of the benefit of the worker. So I'm afraid that this good intention and the government's desire to help workers most in need of such help could be abused by those who live well. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78745	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78746	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is impossible not to discuss a little wider about taxes in the Republic of Croatia when you have a law like this in front of you and to say that neither let's say since 2008. In years, we have not led an adequate tax policy either towards the citizens, and this is about one law that will allow some citizens to get cheaper credit with their businesses, but not according to companies that are in big problems, all these years, and we see how our economy falls, only in an environment in a large recession without any hints and optimism this year is stagnation, here around 0 will be GDP growth, or not at all, but will stagnate. So you can see that there were no adequate measures to help the Croatian economy. In 2008, the SDP proposed 25 legal solutions at the end of the year where we intended to help both citizens and economies so that the impact of the recession and the global crisis would be as small as possible. At the time, we were not welcomed, I would say not with open arms, but even there was criticism of what you are proposing, it doesn't matter, the crisis won't even nick us and all the things we've heard, of course, knowing what's going to happen, but those who were responsible, who led the government, didn't understand what challenges Croatia faces. All this is due to the last three years of GDP decline over 7.5%, the unemployed 140 thousand more and all of these problems that Croatia is in today. To say that by accepting these solutions, we lose 14 billion kuna in the revenue side of the budget as an argument is not good and cannot stand. Because if we analyzed what the budget revenue was in 2008. Compared to 2009. Then you will see that the revenue of the budget was also large, regardless of any change in the budget, in terms of the law. Because it's not budget and policy, it's not just budget multiplication and addition, but you have to understand what effect each of these solutions has on the citizens, on the economy and on the future filling of the state budget. I won't tell you much about it right now, but we had a budget proposal for 2009. Which was first on 127, 8 billion incomes, when we first got it to the Parliament here at the end of 2008. Years. How realistic that was is seen from the situation that took place in 2009, 10. Itd. So the first thing you can't do, you can't look at the sum and minus because everything you do has a little bit wider. And secondly, you must not harm the numbers and data so that they come before the Parliament or refer to a particular document to cover their position politically. This is what should not have been done but now we can't do anything again and try to re-implement those laws that we then proposed, which are now in the programme of economic corn coalition proposed in these elections and which will surely be implemented. I'll just say some things. Primarily, reinvesting every kuna tax on profit. Yes, you have one project in Croatia that will start immediately tomorrow, it is about optical cable connection in Croatia. There are companies in this business that would invest several billion kunas in this project tomorrow, but it didn't happen. If you had such a challenging opportunity to free the profit tax, then companies that could invest in Croatia in this sector would draw money outside of Croatia and when we talk about dividends pay taxes in their home countries on what they earn in Croatia. Now I'm gonna touch this dividend tax. Well, it's no newspaper in Croatia, we're not the only ones who would have such a tax in the EU. On the contrary. We're the only ones and rare ones who don't, that's what they're working on. It is no problem to earn and trust me from the profits made in Croatia a third of the profits are in those companies that would not have escaped from Croatia because it is the banking sector because it is about telecommunications. So you won't tell me that if a dividend tax is introduced that is paid by banks and telecommunications that they will now leave Croatia, and a third of the profits relate to them. So let's not say the wrong things and let's not misinformed our public and scare investors because it's going to get more investors, entrepreneurs, with the tax exemption on reinvested profits than it will possibly lose to the dividend tax they pay to its owners. And that we must all be aware of here. Another thing, if we want to help the citizens, we've had a lot of opportunities. Their greatest help would be to make these citizens employers, more stimulating the employment of those citizens without a job. Why this proposal was not accepted when the SDP proposed it in 2008. The years to release new employment contributions, so it's no cost in the state budget because they're not employed anyway, they're health insurance as people who are unemployed anyway. In Croatia, everyone has the right to health care. And for which it was not accepted as a proposal that we have also announced and which will now be re-implemented for the next two years, the newer person will not be paid contributions to his gross salary. And this is one aid that is much more valuable to citizens than this reduction of 1% interest because these citizens of gentlemen, who will be covered by this law, may be a thousand in Croatia, and those who are jobless are over 300 thousand. Which is why we didn't go to help people get easier jobs, make employers less cost and more stimulating employment and employers competitive. It's a proposal we'll update in two months at the latest. Third thing. We're talking about that part of the market and the economy that suffered the most, and it's about small, medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen. Over 50,000 jobs lost are in that sector. And we unfortunately had one more policy of budget where it was essentially asphyxiation and, they were burdened that we were not speaking indifference now, etc. But the smallest were the most burdened. Why didn't they go for help? Which is why there is no help, for example, by raising the basis for entering the VAT system to 200 thousand kunas, so that people are not burdened to automatically pay their taxes to the state within a certain time period until they charge their own bill and from which they would ultimately have to pay the tax. So there were a lot of legal solutions and there are them and we've been proposing for three years, no one's listening to us. The argument was, no, he doesn't listen to the ruling majority. Citizens and entrepreneurs listen to and believe in what we have proposed, and it will be seen very quickly, but the ruling majority has done nothing but these arguments, you will lose 14 billion kuna, and in the end we lose anyway, because when you compare the revenues in 2007, eighth, ninth, you see that the revenues in the budget are much less, right? And the same revenues were not in the 2008 budget, 2009 budget. So something's lost, you've lost it. He's a fellow Shuker in 2008. Nine billion, 2009. Five billion, four billion kuna. So it's lost. Wait a minute, you'll have a chance, lift up the line, I see you've lifted the correction of an incorrect quote so we can't replicate, but good. You'll have a chance to say your opinion. You lost it one way or the other, and you didn't even try anything. And that's the problem. and such laws, okay, we will support, but they do not solve the substance of the problem in Croatia of these laws that could help the Croatian economy move forward, there is no. They've been gone for the last four years, the last eight years, and there's no trust in the event this kind of policy continues to exist in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78747	Thank you. Two corrections, one replica. The first is Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78748	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, a number of incorrect allegations, but the first and the basic thing should know that for two years now, it has been in effect since the release from the payment of the contribution a year for the newly employed for the first job. They should know that he's been in effect for two years. The other thing is, you can't say no one confessed to the crisis. At the moment this parliament passed the law to increase the security savings to 400,000 kuna, a clear signal was sent that the financial crisis had reached Croatia. However, unlike you who have irresponsibly alarmed Croatian citizens, the government could not afford it. The government had to prevent the stampede on banks and we succeeded and today Croatia has one of the most stable financial sectors. And fellow Maras is not well for the sake of the state, for the sake of the economy, for everything to speak as you speak. So are you saying that Croatia is in a worse situation at the moment than Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Ireland and even Slovenia? These are facts that you cannot deny. Croatia may have slower economic growth due to the structure of the economy, but the biggest untruth you said when you said when you would change the Income Tax Act no later than two months later. You won't be able, you won't be able to. And that's the biggest lie you've told today.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78749	And Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78750	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Maras said as the predecessor of a number of incorrect allegations said. I noticed that there were no adequate measures to help the Croatian economy. It's incorrect. Therefore, there was also this measure mentioned by counterpart Schuker to free from contributions, and further a number of measures concerning business zones, small entrepreneurs, and also various other measures from economic recovery that show these days results, so GDP growth and a number of other activities. And record unemployment was at the time of the coalition government, 425 thousand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78751	Mr. Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78752	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you're discussing employees in a way that treats them as an employer's expense. Comrade Maras, employees are no expense. Employers with their capital are nobody and nothing without employees. Let your capital sit on it, they don't hire anyone, so you'll see what they do to him. Employees are the most important factor in economic activity, the most important factor in production and cannot be discussed with them. As far as liberating is concerned, we've heard there's a relief from the contribution to the new employees, but it's not a solution. There is no example in economic practice that those who do not pay contributions to employees achieve economic growth and increase employment. There is no such thing anywhere in the world, in any country, in any economic, these are more social components, but without the expected effects. There's no such thing. It is known that economic policy, with its instruments and fiscal and monetary, can only affect economic growth, and everything else is politicizing. We have two of the most important instruments in the sphere of fiscal policy, which is the governance of public debt and tax policy which is not appropriate, but which needs systematic change and which should be targeted towards growth in the economy. We have a monetary policy with our same three main instruments, which is also not appropriate and only by combining such instruments, just such a single synchronised action, we can do economic growth and good to every employee and increase the number of employees. And those who, overnight, praise the fact that they hired several hundred new employees do not pay, in three months they are fired, they have not even paid their salaries, they have not paid any contributions, of which there is no benefit to Croatia's economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78753	Thank you very much. I'm glad you've admitted that fiscal policy is inappropriate. Here's at the end of your term that you said it wasn't good and that it needed to be changed. I agree with you. I'm glad you've replicated it for me. I fully agree with you. And another thing, so we're not talking about the problem of Croatian economy's incompetence only us in Croatia. Take a look at the few agencies dealing with the analysis of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy so analyze who we are in the world. So you also have a Croatian Competitiveness Council. A month ago, the president of the council warned and said we are among the weakest in the region, competing and moving somewhere in places like Albania. If we talk to the countries with which we compared in 2010, let's say Poland that has taken quality measures in the fight against recession is now 30 places better placed than Croatia. So no one will invest in Croatia. And as for the cost, so look, I'm not talking and I don't look at workers as a cost, but in the context of the whole business, do you think it's less in the interest of employment that the price of work, not pay, than the price of work, means contributions, taxes are lower, and then it would be easier and more competitive to hire people. That's what I was talking about. I'm talking about how to create an economy more competitive than it has been in the last four years, and I'm going to go back to the beginning, and I see that you understand that this policy has not been properly led. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78754	And Madam Representative Nevenka Majdenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78755	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored government representatives, respected colleagues and colleagues. At first, I say that I will support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and the addition of the Tax on Income. In fact, we all here in the House are committed to the fact that our tax system of records must be simple, as transparent as possible, and in accordance with this law, I am pleased to delete the provision of payment obligations to the bank, and a provision is introduced that dividend payers and the share in obtaining are obliged to keep records and tax administrations to submit a report on the dividends and shares paid. Why I'm saying this and why I'm glad, because we know that before we pay dividends that it was paid on the bank's gyro-account, and that then the tax administration, or it turns out that they were looking for data on these payments. Since banks are not very interested in keeping accounts of these payments correctly and transparently, it has often happened that the tax administration did not have that exact data, so that sometimes, perhaps, there is a great possibility, it may be difficult to establish, that some major payments were not properly recorded. We need to know with the giro-account that there are also various payments on that giro-account and that then the bank's employees were obliged to make out of all possible deposits of the fort that relate precisely to the payment of dividends and the share in profits. It should also be said that some employers paid those dividends, but that they were a large number of which were paid or at times, and in some small amount that he was in some way burdening, i.e. there was a cost to whoever got maybe 200, 300 kuna had to open a giro-account, he had this one payment, so that he didn't have the costs of running the giro-account he often closed down, and then he had the cost of closing the giro-account. So it's really better to keep records of dividends and profit payments to be delivered directly to the tax administration and then we'll really have exactly what counsel Shuker was saying and we'll have exactly how much of it is. So it's not going to go over the banks, it's going directly. Of course, it requires employers to keep accurate records, but I don't think that's a problem with technology and technology anymore. As for this second amendment, which is that it enables employers to grant loans to their businesses at the rate of 3% non-taxable, I really think it should be supported, and I'm glad that the SDP will support it because at the moment employers can give loans at a minimum rate of 4% that such interest is not taxable. And I think it's good for those who care about it, who have some credits, and it's also an incentive for employers to take a little more care of their employees, to make it easier for them, I would also tell them life and allow them to have the resources left to pay off some other needs of their own. In any case, I think this law should be accepted, that this is another law that this government has sent, I say, that it would make life easier for the citizens, and in any case, this law should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78756	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78757	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Income, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No. 870. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Income Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 91 votes for, 3 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78758	We'll get to the next point. Ten. Proposal for a law amending the law on the gas market, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 881. The Proposer is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Economy, Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Ruđer Friganovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78759	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a proposal for a law amending the law on the gas market. As we know, the reform of the energy sector began in 2001 by adopting the Energy Law and the Law Package which regulates the implementation of certain energy activities, electricity, the oil and gas market and the Energy Activity Regulation Act. These laws set up a basic legislative framework for the restructuring and reorganisation of the energy sector and for the liberalisation of the gas market and regulation of energy activities, and include the restructuring of energy subjects and the creation of a new legislative, institutional framework, the establishment of market rules, public service obligations and the separation of energy activities into market and regulated. Energy legislation has become one of the important segments on the path of the Republic of Croatia towards membership in the European Union. The same legislation has changed very dynamically in the European Union and the Republic of Croatia has followed the meaning of these amendments and has aligned its legislative framework with European legislation. And I will not burden this House with any amendments and additions to the laws that were passed from 2001 to today. The basic reasons for the adoption of this law stem from the need to allow the Government of the Republic of Croatia to retain the possibility to prescribe the highest level of natural gas price for privileged customers for a certain period of time. This specifically refers to buyers of the category of entrepreneurship, i.e. industrial buyers. On 1 July 2011, there was a significant increase in the price of gas of 14%, which means by one supplier, whom the Government of the Republic of Croatia considered unnecessary and that it brought down international competitiveness from the Croatian manufacturing sector above all, and the government adopted the Regulation amending the gas market law which entered into force on 3 August. Therefore, in that Regulation, the Government has prescribed that the Government may, for a certain time, prescribe a maximum level of gas price for privileged customers in order to protect the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia and ensure international competitiveness, taking into account the price of gas on the international market for the same or similar categories of authorised customers. The Regulation allowed a decision to fix the maximum natural gas price between 1 September and 31 December at an amount of 2.13 kuna per metre cubic and to apply to privileged customers other than households, i.e. those carrying out production activities with annual gas consumption of less than 100 million metres of cubic gas. In particular, it applies to customers buying gas for the production of heat for the customer's tariff under the provisions of the Law on Production, Distribution and Distribution of Heat Energy. The decision, therefore, protected the Croatian manufacturing sector from the impact of the energy price that occurred at that time. By this amendment, this proposal amends the Gas Market Act, which now transposes this Regulation into law and receives legal force and means that the following objectives are achieved. The protection of the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia is carried out and ensures the international competitiveness of Croatian products, taking into account the price of gas. In order to implement the law, it will not be necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget, and the reasons for the urgent procedure are essential economic, emerging economic conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78760	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative's club, Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78761	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the Ministry of Economy. At the very beginning, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the draft law amending the law on the gas market delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of protecting the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia in the first place, but also ensuring the international competitiveness of Croatian products, taking into account the price of gas on the international market. Therefore, the basic reason for the adoption of this proposal for a law on the gas market is that the provisions of the Regulation amending the law on the gas market are implemented and incorporated into the law on the gas market and this is based on the meaning of Article 87(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, only Article 72 is amended. The law on the gas market. I recall, too, the Secretary of State said that the government adopted a decision on the highest price, the highest level of gas price for privileged customers carrying out their production activities, for those with annual consumption of less than 100 million metres of cubic gas, and especially for customers who buy gas for the production of heat for the tariff buyer according to the provisions of the Law on Production, Distribution and the supply of heat other than households. The decision entered into force on 1 September 2011 and amounts to 2.13 kuna per metre cubic. The tariff system in the Republic of Croatia has been developed and the price of gas is related to energy value. That's what we got from the Ministry of Economy. And why we at the Croatian Democratic Community club think it's good. And the price of gas for privileged customers is completely market-oriented and depends and so far depends on the prices of oil derivatives. However, as regards the liberalisation of the market that is a prerequisite for the future development of the Croatian economy, I would like to point out that technical conditions such as cross-border gas supply capacities that significantly exceed the needs of the Republic of Croatia, but also the possibility of privileged customers to enter into contracts with other suppliers, and to change suppliers, and in case of dissatisfaction, replace other suppliers in case of dissatisfaction. So the technical conditions are met. As far as the legislative framework is concerned, the government is still working on it, of course, in that sense preparing legislation to protect the economy. And that is precisely, that this market liberalisation is not very easy to show here are examples of the Polish Parliament recently blocking amendments to the Law on Oil and Gas Storage, which, of course, delays the process of liberalisation in Poland, even though we know that Poland is a member of the European Union. The integration of the Croatian gas system with the European, construction of LNG terminals, the construction of new energy facilities, and the price policy of space is to be used for quality preparation for the common European energy market. If we use this, wisely this space, and through the new laws that are under preparation, we will be active participants in the gas market. Following the application of the provisions of the third energy package from the European Commission, all provisions relating to the determination of energy prices by the Government will be relocated to the regulatory, regulatory, or Croatian regulatory agencies. We at the Croatian Democratic Community club hold that and that is good, and we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78762	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78763	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Although the assembly is full of votes, there's not much to be heard, but I'm tempted to come out for this pay phone because obviously with the gas market and the price of gas something's wrong. The best example for this is the increase in the price of gas for households in the town of Slavonski Brod, i.e. the price of heating that is gas and which these days to say earthquakes and the town of Slavonski Brod, but this time it is about the bill, the addition of the law on the gas market, with intent and the aim of making the price for, especially for,... gas for privileged customers, so these are customers from the category of entrepreneurship and industrial buyers limited to 2.13 kuna per cubic metre. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about natural gas then it is certainly necessary to mention the fact that Croatia has its own natural gas sources, that the Croatian market is supplied with this natural gas in, somewhere in the amount of about 50% and imports or up to 60%, and sometimes it is not clear how the gas price is actually regulated, and why in Croatia the problem is, in spite of its and its supplies and the exploitation of gas, that it has a problem with suppliers, or suppliers, and who we entrusted with gas supplying the Republic of Croatia, and in particular, or particularly customers of the category of entrepreneurship, or industrial customers. It is clear that the HDSSB club, in this case and the government's attempt to use this measure and to contain gas prices, will be for such a measure and for such a legal proposal, but I must mention again that domestic gas on our market is almost 60%, domesticated from domestic sources, that in some cities like Slavonski Brod and such, and regardless of the installation of calories there is a discrepancy between consumption and price and price increases in household consumption, so I think that today there is too little time to elaborate on it, but in any case, the gas market, gas prices and gas supplies, and then all of what is related to the supply of the gas of the Republic of Croatia in winter months will mainly need one another on an even more detailed and critical discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-30-0.u78764	Thank you very much. The individual debate was answered by Mr. Maras. He's gone. I therefore conclude the debate. Final draft law amending the gas market law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 881. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the gas market law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal was adopted unanimously with 90 votes. Ladies and gentlemen, continue this 24th. The sessions will be held on Wednesday 5.10. at 9.30 p.m. with the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Montenegro and the Government of Montenegro on police co-operation with the Final Bill. Have a nice weekend. Thank you.
