ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u4	My colleagues and colleagues open the second extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. I called an extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Articles 197 and 198. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which means, in addition to the previously obtained opinion of the Clubs of Representatives. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you received a draft agenda with a call to the benches. In the agenda I proposed for the 9th law, it was proposed to adopt an emergency procedure. That's, uh, one. Proposal for a Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 4. 2. Proposal for a Law establishing and delirious the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 3. 3. Proposal for a Law on the System of State Administration, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 2. 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Obligations and Rights of Officials, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 8. 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 1. Six. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, with a final proposal for law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 5. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Local and Regional/ Self-Government, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. Six. 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Implementing Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. Nine. Nine. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Executors, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. Seven. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? Here you go, Mr. Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Club and the HGS, I'm looking for a half-hour recess to consult on the agenda. I'm looking for a 30-minute recess to consult on the agenda, because we just got this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u6	Mr. Representative, I have to inform you on the Rules of Procedure that the recess cannot be requested before the agenda is established, so until we can determine the agenda, I would like to ask you to come out with a proposal. ... Well, the agenda is determined then. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm sure that's what the Rules of Procedure says. It's the same for you. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. Mr. Vinkovic. Agent Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. The HDSB Club opposes the urgent procedure for the adoption of the Act under point 3. So the proposal for a Law on the System of State Administration, with the final proposal for a law, under 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, with the final proposal of the Law, 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Local and Regional/ Self-Government, with a final proposal for a law, as many of them do not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u8	Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Vladimir Shakespeare, agent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I personally hold that the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, with the final proposal of the Law and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, are not similar for discussion because the parent board that should discuss them in my position is the Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government and that these two laws are included in its work. These two laws were also discussed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, but in the section of affairs and in the description of the affairs of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system are a choice for the bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government,... the choice for the bodies, and this is about the incoherent mayor, mayor, mayor and mayor of the City of Zagreb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're not bodies. The bodies are the council, the congregation. For these reasons, I believe that the Committee should, as a parent committee, give the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government a discussion of the proposal for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u10	Thank you very much. If I may just here myself... Mr. Seks, therefore, in the Law on Local Self-Government, the regional (regional) self-government says that the bodies are therefore the representative body mayor, mayor and mayor, so that's what it says, so it's the body, and you've said well to Agent Shakespeare that it's the responsibility of the Constitution Committee, because it's the body, but you're the only one who interpreted it differently. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But who else answers the word? Mr. Representative Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As regards the proposed points 6 and 7, the amendments and additions to the laws relating to local self-government, I do not consider that constitutional assumptions for the urgent procedure of amending those laws have been met. The fact that, in the light of these laws, the applicants did not give a precise explanation that this law should be amended only because of the composition of the new Government, there is no justification. And I also believe that the Committee on Local (regional) Self-Government is the Parliament's parent working body when it comes to the laws of local and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u12	Thank you very much. Is anyone else picking up? If not, we'll go to the vote. First, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 4th? Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Who's against it? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most votes on the agenda are included in the final proposal of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 4, as 94 deputies voted in favour of an emergency procedure, and 32 against it. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Establishment and Fraction of the Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration, P.Z. No. Three? Against? Restraint? I note that most of the votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure were included the Final Proposal for the Law on the Construction and Fraction of the Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration, P.Z. No. 3. Do I need to read what the number is because you see yourself up there or not? ... Thank you. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the State Administration System Act, P.Z. No. 2nd? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most of the votes on the agenda by emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal of the Law on the System of State Administration, P.Z. No. 2. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, P.Z. No. Eight? Against? Restraint? I find that most votes, 90 votes with 36 against on the agenda under emergency procedure, have included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, P.Z. No. 8. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending the Law on State officials, P.Z. No. 1st? Against? Restraint? I find that most votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on Civil Servants, P.Z. No. 1st because 90 MPs voted in favour, and 36 were against it. Sixth, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, P.Z. No. Five? Against? Restraint? I note that most votes on the agenda are subject to the Emergency Procedure Act amending the Law on Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, P.Z. No. 5, with 85 votes for and 42 against. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, P.Z. No. Six? Against? Restraint? I find that most votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for a Law amending the law on local, regional and regional self-government of P.Z. Number 6 because 84 votes were given an emergency procedure and 43 were against it. Eight, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the law of P.Z. Number 9? Against? Restraint? I find that most of the votes in the agenda under the emergency procedure are included in the Final Transition Act on Amendments to Implementing Law P.Z. Number 9 because 94 MPs voted in favour of a 33 against. Nine, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Public Executive, P.Z. Number 7? Against? Restraint? I find that most votes under emergency procedure are included in the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Executors, P.Z. No. 7 because 97 MPs voted in favour and 30 were opposed to being classified under the urgent procedure of this point. Any objections to the remaining points of the proposed agenda? Mr. Agent Lesar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Club at points 12, 13 and 14 of the proposed agenda for three reasons. First of all, none of these points were given any document on which the Croatian Parliament could lead the debate and it is truly unusual to include on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament the items of the agenda in which no document was given. Secondly, no document shall be proposed under points 12, 13 and 14 and at the moment it is unknown at whose point these points would be discussed. And thirdly, I remind you of the deadlines, if the Croatian Parliament adopts the proposed documents tomorrow, we make an obligation to make a referendum on Croatia's eventual entry into the European Union possible because the final decision is only at the referendum, it must be held by 22 January next year at the latest. We believe that there is no, and no explanation has been given why the Parliament on such an important matter decides at an extraordinary session instead of at a regular session that would begin on 15 January with the prepared and more agreed and on the previous decision and on the decision to call the referendum itself which we consider far more appropriate to be held in mid-February than in late January because we Croatian Labourists care about the response to the referendum being over 70%,...70% of us have a more important response to the referendum, and it is about the days when the holidays end, and most citizens will not be able to follow that process. No one has given a reason why these three points and whose proposal are to attend an extraordinary session, without any document of the motion for a decision and I suggest that these three points be removed from the agenda and voted on now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u14	Mr. Representative Buric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u15	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the HDSSB Club, we also believe that this is an important topic for the future of the Croatian state, so that in this way we can discuss in the Croatian Parliament the documents that have already been said that have not even been put before representatives of the Croatian Parliament and how to then discuss something and we do not know exactly what we need. The debate on the draft of these agreements was to be held prior to the initialisation of the agreement before 9 December 2011 in the Croatian Parliament and not by the Croatian Parliament before the final act. So it turns out that the same thing that we resented HDZ, but even today, the ruling majority, is now doing the same thing, the SDP. The parliament in this way becomes only a decor, and a fig leaf of democracy which we in the HDSSB do not agree to and do not want to be. We are not against the European Union, but we will not be anyone's dolls in the end, and ultimately Croatian citizens expect us to take such a stand. We also suggest that these agenda points be removed now and not discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u16	Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. What we expected at the level of the representatives of the parties represented in the Croatian Parliament to agree on this item of the agenda, and we are now expecting and appealing that before we can include this item of the agenda during the meeting which will take place tomorrow, it can be classified, but that before it is included in the agenda to achieve a broad consensus on our position on the European Union is known to everyone, so absolutely for but we should clearly define these points that are ahead of us and it would be good for the consultation of representatives at the level of the parties in the Croatian Parliament to maintain as soon as possible, this is our proposal before these points are placed on the agenda but, of course, we express our positive position on the agenda, but after consulting with all representatives to reach a consensus on this issue. We think it's too important. And in this regard, before these agenda points are included and after the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, we propose to include the point of election of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u18	Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Agent Cain reporting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u19	Here, Mr. Buric, it's not just the SDP that promoters are here, it's the HNS, IDS and HSU. Simply in this process of bringing Croatia closer to the European Union. He's been arguing in this House to his brother for at least 10 years. So if we want the European Parliaments to ratify these European agreements between Zagreb and Brussels there by 1.7.2013, it must be done by my court and by the Court of the IDS Club as soon as possible. I personally have a lot of reservations to the EU, but at this point I have even more reason to support this agreement, as probably all our exporters and those who live on tourism and those who live alongside it, along that border and so on. Therefore, I personally believe that these points should be discussed as soon as possible and as soon as possible to call a referendum in question, which I assume will be held 22. Next month.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u20	Thank you. It can go towards the plea. So, first of all, if someone has a vague view of the proposings for all these points that are open as problematic in the sense of not knowing who the promoter is, they are proposing SDP, HNS, IDS and HSU. Secondly, materials are expected to arrive at the benches at any moment, but as Mr Lesar made a concrete proposal, and he supported it, and as far as I understood Agent Buric, then we must declare whether points 12, 13 and 14. remain in the proposed agenda or not. So I put it to the vote, and the formulation reads, so I put it to the vote that points 12, 13 and 14 of the proposed agenda should be placed on the agenda, to stay on the agenda as proposed, so points 12, 13 and 14. Who's in? That's the Rules of Procedure. We're working on the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Who's against it? You'll get Mr. Lesar just to finish up. Who's against it? Restraint? According to the Rules of Procedure, when you do nothing as you do in a regular vote, then you are considered to be abstentions, so if you are neither against it. The Rules of Procedure are like that. I can't just stick to the Rules of Procedure. So, I find that since 85 MPs voted for, 38 abstentions, 6 were against, that points 12, 13 and 14 were included in the agenda, i.e. We'll vote on them, but keep them on the agenda. She was a breach of the Rules of Procedure highlighted by Mr. Representative Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u21	Mr. President, you won't be voting twice on agenda points right now. I have proposed a vote on leaving those three points out of the agenda by business. My suggestion that we should vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u22	And we voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u23	But you've turned the question around.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u24	Yeah, because that's what the Rules of Procedure says.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u25	And now you're going to vote again on those points?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u26	No, we won't vote anymore, because we voted on this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u27	No materials for the MPs, Mr. President. I must remind you of the text of the oath that we all took today.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u28	Please, I said the materials are about to be found in front of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u29	I need... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u30	And as for Mr Matusic's objection to Mr Matusic, I can say that it does not affect his eyesight. Please consult with the representatives of the parties what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u31	Mr. President, first we didn't get the materials, second you didn't respond at all to our proposal. We expected representatives of the ruling parties to respond to this proposal to meet with the presidents of the parties and the Croatian Parliament and to consult on this issue. What's the decision now? Something that doesn't exist on paper. We don't even have it on paper. And secondly, we had a concrete proposal, so we expected that the presidents of the ruling parties would manifest themselves on our proposal to call for consultations. We are not against putting on the agenda, nor are we abstentions, nor were we against. But it was simply necessary to make consultations before that, as the text is concerned, to agree on this text, because it really is an important issue. We are absolutely for the EU and it is really inappropriate for you to put us in this situation because you should have simply listened to our proposal that we want to hear a statement from the president of the parties sitting here in the Croatian Parliament and Mr Milanović and Mrs Pusic and the other party presidents who are there, or sorry, Mr Cacic. We should have heard their answer to our proposal. The second proposal was to move the point of election of the Vice-President behind the Mandate-Immunity Commission report, for that very reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u32	Thank you very much. What? Here you go. Representative Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u33	Just to respond to the HDZ Club initiative, Mr. Matusic may not know but arrangements are under way to hold a meeting of the presidents of all parties so that those consultations may not have told you, but they run with people from your club and towards your president.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u34	I find that the agenda has been accepted and we move to work according to the established...... /The noise in the hall./... What? ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u35	Mr. President of the Parliament, in the same way as if he got...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u36	You did, you gave yourself your word, I just didn't see which tile you put on What tile did you put on? [[/Intruder Vinkovic: What?]] The tile you are?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u37	I didn't see it, I didn't see it, I raised my hand just like Mr. Dragovan did. Look, these six votes do not mean that the HDSSB is against the European Union, but it is also against this kind of violence of democracy. Because the fact that materials this important are just being printed, it's like saying that the new comic book will come out in three months, Zagor classic. I don't know if that's how the Croats got into Yugoslavia in 918, or if they went in like that in '45. in this new one without any document. A few days ago, the chairman of the Committee, Mrs Pusic, said to all media that the referendum would take place in mid-February. Now, three days later or four later, we determine this date on January 22nd. I remind you that the current majority in the Croatian Parliament asked for a debate here while the opposition was at the time, the HDZ did not allow debate, now as most of you do not allow the debate again because the European Union is not only a well-being but has citizens of Croatia and does not know what the European Union is, and even most of these representatives do not know what the European Union is. That is why we are looking for an extensive debate on Croatia's accession to the European Union, with complete documents, with everything the negotiating teams have negotiated. It is not enough to publish it on the Internet, but the Croatian Parliament, today we have all taken an oath, has to discuss this important topic, not to enter again as geese in the fog, and history has taught us how we turned out when we entered into the fog. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u38	Thank you very much. Representative Zoran Milanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u39	Dear President, dear colleagues. Of course, it is the right of the opposition to and obstruct, but we know that in this Parliament, in the Croatian Parliament, all those sitting here, who have been elected by Croatian citizens as voters for Croatia's entry into the European Union, are more or less, to hold a referendum not over their knees, we do not propose and it will not be so. The materials you're talking about are in preparation, you'll get them very soon. It is no excuse nor a good excuse until now that this has happened a hundred times in the Croatian Parliament, so that points are included on the agenda...... If the points were placed on the agenda, and the materials were coming, you'd have them. [[The intruder doesn't understand, the speakers speak in the same voice.]] This is an extraordinary session of the Parliament, this is a session of the Parliament to be established and the Croatian Government. You will receive these materials almost 20 hours before we decide on them, by our own free will and by our own conscience. We won't force you to do anything. The consultations usually last on several levels both at your club and with your president, you probably know that, and I'm always ready for that conversation and I'll be ready because it's an important topic, but let's not say that something is trying to do force here. According to the declaration we made in this House, the deadline for the referendum would be 8 or 9 January. We all agree it's unrealistic. The idea is the proposal, and then it's very well known that we move that deadline in almost three weeks. We will have the opportunity to discuss this, to show ourselves and not to blame you for being against the European Union or to offer... But let's go talk rationally about this problem. ... /The noise in the hall./... [[You don't understand.]] So let's get a reasonable approach to this problem, you'll get these materials, you'll get the text very quickly, the proposal, so the proposal for the content of the referendum issue, and then we'll discuss it and we'll show ourselves. So your... We can discuss this for another two hours, we have time, we have time for that, but give us some reason. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u40	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, I think it makes sense to keep doing this on your own, but if you want to, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic, MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u41	Mr. Milanovic said it was the opposition's business to obstruct. No, on the contrary, the point of the opposition is to point to failures. This is a major failure, and the opposition, Mr Milanovic, can also be constructive, and we want to be constructive in Croatia and the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u42	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u43	I was also going to say that the request for a hearing is not obstruction. And secondly, Croatian Labourists and labour parties do not know of any consultations between club presidents or party presidents.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u44	Mr. Representative Matušić for the fourth time, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u45	On behalf of the club, sir. Mr. President, on behalf of the club, I speak. So all this said by counterpart Milanovic, all this could have been accepted in a way that the proposed points that you proposed today so after point 11 were not currently established, not to be put on the agenda but to be put on the agenda tomorrow during the debate to be classified as additional points. By then, we'll have complete material. There's no reason, so there was no reason not to do it that way. And the second thing, all you want, is you can't pin it on us that we are against the European Union, you know who completed the whole process and who did it and who was responsible for this whole process and who signed the Treaty of Accession of the European Union, and who was also known to be obstructing. And the third thing, it wasn't put on the agenda in this House without material. The material was coming, at the last minute but it was coming before the vote of the agenda, but we had it on the bench, Mr. Milanovic. We had the agenda on the bench, we had it. We had a proposal point on the bench. If I'd split up now, we'd have known to take a stand, we wouldn't have any problems. But I don't think it's a good way to start this 7th session of the Croatian Parliament working because it's really about raping democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u46	Okay. ... /The noise in the hall./... Mr. Buric, you've called more than once.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u47	Thank you, Mr. President, for giving me your word. I'm really just gonna...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u48	But please make this the last one.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u49	So a procedural error has really been made. Let's not run from it! This was to be discussed, but tomorrow after the government's vote of confidence and when the materials are in front of all of us. So, you have to admit that a procedural error has been made. None of us object to discussing it, but we have to follow the rules of the game we set ourselves. That's right, and the oath at the end of the day. And I must say, however, here is to remind my colleague Matusic, however, is an incorrect finding that until now it has not been a practice to discuss such inclusion of the agenda point. I'll remind you that in that last session then vice-president, it seems to me that even without a majority of them, Mr. Shakespeare has placed the agenda points here. Therefore, do not continue with the same practice as was bad practice in the last term.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u50	Thank you very much. No matter what an extraordinary session it is, so these things can, if they want to be tolerated of course, I suggest we take a break now, wait until the materials multiply. If we wait a little longer you'll be patient I hope. But I believe that would make that as far as I've heard the assessment is in about half an hour. And nothing, we'll ring the bell and we'll call you back. Thank you very much. It's a 30-minute stop. My colleagues and colleagues, let's get back to work. First, let me inform you that the representatives of the clubs have agreed, have a meeting at 7 p.m., and in relation to the law concerning or the assumption of a decision on the accession of the European Union. Secondly, all the conditions have been met because you have received all the necessary material to discuss the points of the agenda that we had as those that had no conditions, so as far as the agenda is concerned, I am concluding the debate, I am determining that the agenda has been accepted, and we are moving to work according to the established agenda. In accordance with Article 223 of the Treaty on the I propose that the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament be held in a united debate on the first five points of the agenda. ... Injury of the Rules of Procedure? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you are, Mr. Matušić, a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u52	Mr. President, I've been looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, according to our Rules of Procedure, which has otherwise not been delivered to any of the new parliamentary deputies, which I think is bad. ... It's not delivered. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So according to our Rules of Procedure, after a request for a break on behalf of the club, there are 5 minutes at the disposal of the club representative to explain why it was a break and what our conclusions are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u53	How much do you want a break? How many minutes?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u54	No, no, that's what we were looking for earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u55	Well, now you're right, now the agenda is set.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u56	You're the one who approved that break. You're the one who approved the break, and after the break, we have the right to an explanation. No, no, we're looking for a right to reason after the break. [[And you're looking for half an hour?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u57	So, look the break wasn't given for the club but for the materials and that's what I explained to you on. Look, please, so don't all talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u58	Then, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u59	What are you looking for?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u60	We're looking for a five-minute break now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u61	Here you go. You have the right to do that. He's entitled to a break. ... I'm taking a break for the HDZ club for five minutes. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Here you go. On behalf of the HDZ Club, please welcome Mr. Salapic, representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u63	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The need for this five-minute break, i.e. for more than an hour that you have had to give after we have asked for our business 10 minutes is for one single reason – we are pleased that you have accepted our proposal by the HDZ Representatives' Club for Consensus on this very important issue, which is the issue of final acts for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU. First of all, the HDZ government headed by President Kosor has done the biggest and hardest job of the past 2.5 years to complete negotiations and to make the Republic of Croatia a full member of the EU. Therefore, the consensus for which HDZ has often on your side over the past 2.5 years had no understanding is needed to do as much as possible at this key and most difficult moment for the Republic of Croatia, which is to agree on these European and fundamental issues for our country. What amazes us, and what is not in the European spirit of the Croatian Parliament, of this highest representative House of the Croatian People, is what happened today on the Committee of Legislatives when all the democracy and European spirit of the SDP and the partners of the Committee on Legislatives showed themselves when we experienced a great level of haughtiness, indiscriminateness and misunderstanding for very important laws that were without documents, without a proposal of the law 5 minutes before the meeting of the Committee on Legislatives came into our hands to the representatives of the opposition. If you already knew what you were up to, you should have in time these key laws that you are entering into the fundamental constitutional rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is the direct choice of mayors, mayors and mayors, at least so much democracy and European spirit that you will have in time provide us with very important legislative proposals that we will not allow you to put into the agenda of the Croatian Parliament in such a non-democratic way. And most importantly, this is today a very important act for all representatives of the Croatian Parliament, you have not even accepted the basic documents of the representatives to be given on the representative benches, which are the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the proposals of the laws you want us to decide on, and we have not seen any letter of that law. Now, these are the past few times that, as far as HDZ is concerned, you can forget.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u64	Thank you. Before I give my word to Mrs Pusic, our MPs, to correct the incorrect allegations, let me just say about who and how to prepare a copy of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. We'd better not talk right now, I'm asking you nicely. The so far Secretary of Parliament could have prepared that. But you'll have it at the second session, of course. Mrs. Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me to correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague relating to the role of opposition in the previous assembly of the Parliament regarding the success of the entire project of negotiations and the arrival to the point at which we signed the accession contract, so to this current point. There are no oppositions in the EU member states that have been particularly involved in the 2004 package, so the Eastern European or the transition countries we belong to, in which the opposition has been actively and committed to work on one project as the opposition on the EU project has done in the previous Parliament's session. Therefore, your claim that the opposition obstructed is completely incorrect. And by the way, our club provided us with basic documents, probably yours, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u66	Representative Salapic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Don't abuse him so I don't have to apply the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u67	Fellow MPs, please, Mr. President, Article 209 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure – Mrs Pusic's representative did not say what she was correcting but commented on what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u68	Thank you, fellow Leakey. We continue to work towards the established agenda. In accordance with Article 223 of the Treaty on the I propose that the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament be held in a united debate on the following two points of the agenda. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vladimir Shakespeare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I believe that these two laws are about the parent board, the Committee on Regional and Local and Regional Self-Government, because the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament states that the issue of establishment, part-circuit and method of work of the body is the unit of local and regional self-government, which is why the parent board is for local and regional self-government. When I objected to the agenda, then I objected that this was part of the Constitution, that it was not part of the Committee on the Constitution, and you said that the body was the local, regional self-government and representative body, not just the mayor, mayor, mayor and mayor of Zagreb. If so, the mayor, mayor, municipal head of the body is included in this body, then according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, in the section of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, this is a matter of formation, detour and the manner of the bodies of the local and regional self-government units. Therefore, the parent committee would be obliged to carry out this debate and in accordance with Article 138(1). The rules of procedure before the debate on the draft law at the meeting of the Chamber of Directors and the Legislative Committee are obliged to place the draft law on the agenda of the working body meetings and to carry out the debate. So my final proposal is that the parent board, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) is self-government and that it should hold a preliminary debate before the plenary session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u70	Here I am, as chairman of Mr. Shakespeare, I can say as I have said before that you are wrong because of Article 57. The Rules of Procedure say that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system are considering, among other things, the election of MPs in the Assembly, the election of the President of the Republic, the election of the bodies of the units of local, regional (regional) self-government and the referendum. So this isn't about structure. It's about election. Here, that's an explanation. So, I'm asking... And that's what you think I did. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, I know something, don't I?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u71	Okay. Mr. President?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u72	That's what you think we're playing. So no one can know but you just want to know, right? Well, we'll see how much anyone knows. Here, what's the reason? ... So let's get to the agenda, we haven't come to debate yet. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u73	Yeah, I agree, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u74	But please, there's no controversy here now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u75	Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u76	Don't, so we have to stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u77	If the representative is not satisfied with the President's explanation given, if it expresses dissatisfaction, then in accordance with Article 209 thereof. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and I am not satisfied, should seek a statement within 24 hours of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. And since I hold that we are diverged in the legal position, I suggest that the Committee on the Constitution give its opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u78	Okay, you're right about that. Within 24 hours to do so, the committee will meet and give its interpretation and then we will discuss it without discussion only with you who are dissatisfied, so you have the right to discuss at this session of the Parliament and, of course, the representative of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that will present the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u79	I hope that no law will be passed before that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u80	Yeah. All right. Therefore, in accordance with Article 229 of the Treaty on the Functioning I suggest that the Rules of Procedure be held in a united debate on two points of the agenda. Okay, well, that's... Please don't reach out to such institutes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope it's a thing of the past. Thank you very much. I already said the agenda was fixed, now we're going in the agenda. ... Yeah, no, no, it's like that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, accordingly, once again because Mr. Matušić could have done it at that time, and now he can't. In accordance with Article 223 of the Treaty on the I propose that the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament be held in a united debate on the first five points of the agenda. And I have to say that I'm in consultation with... So here's what I'm going to say, so that's what we agreed, and the HDSSB club and the Croatian Labour Club also told me in the break-up that they also suggest the unification of the agenda point. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I thank you for that. We've done it before in order to tell the representatives of the Kukuriku coalition clubs. Do you agree with this proposal? You don't have to vote if you agree not to vote. No, no, I'm going to suggest something now so we don't have to waste any time. If you agree, then it's unanimous for me to put it to the vote? ... Yeah. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So I find that we have unanimously decided to bring the debate together with the following points: 1. Final proposal of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 4 1. Final proposal of the Law on the establishment and detour of ministries and other central authorities of the state administration, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 3 1. Final proposal of the Law on the System of State Administration, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 2 1. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 8-1. Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on civil servants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 1 Proposers of acts Club of Representatives of the SDP, Club of Representatives of the HNS, Club of Representatives of the IDS, Club of Representatives of the HSU. The representatives’ clubs submitted draft laws pursuant to Article 84. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 129 and 159 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the motions for action on the benches. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposer that these laws be adopted by emergency procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate as provided for in Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go, Mr. Agent Neven Mimica, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP, HNS, IDS and HSU clubs have proposed a joint discussion of these 5 laws, which constitute an organic and legal whole whose adoption allows for the assembly, proposal and confirmation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the start of the smooth and rapid functioning of ministries and other bodies of the state administration. We believe that it is extremely important to enable this quick start because the current moment of a serious and deep economic crisis which is further enhanced with difficult moments at the level of the world economy, and due to the fact that almost a few months, because of the election campaign, which because of the fact or ineffectiveness and inactions of the previous government, the problems have not been removed in an effective and sufficiently visible way, all of this together causes the need for just this kind of adoption of a law package for the start, the start of the work of the new Croatian government. We at clubs, we hold that the new government will not only have 100 days to start its work, but it will probably have 100 minutes only after tomorrow's confirmation that in full drive it will start doing all that is necessary for change, all that is needed to eliminate the developmental difficulties and other difficulties in which Croatia is located. This is why we propose this package which, at the level of the first reforms, I would say in the state administration, we want to make it possible, on the one hand, to enable the government to start working effectively, but on the other hand, to start reforms and changes in the state administration, which is one of the priority changes that we are in the electoral programme, will be seen tomorrow and in the government's work programme for which we stand. Subjective proposals of these laws that are before you in a different way regulate the level of executive responsibility in the bodies of the state administration. They introduce deputy ministers' posts instead of state secretaries' current positions, also ministerial assistants' posts are introduced instead of current directors of the ministry's administration, which will be appointed for the duration of the government's mandate, means all posts as set out in the Law on the handover of the government. The practice showed that there was inflation of the number of state secretaries whose areas of work were adapted daily to political needs, and the posts of the directors of the administration which were designed as state officials were filled in according to the political key and the actual responsibility of the director of the administration did not really exist because the main work was done by lower structures in the ministries. Once appointed, such directors were able to maintain their position practically until retirement, largely limiting the possibility of advancement, and the possibility of opening up a perspective for quality civil servants to advance in the ministry. Also, the coefficients for directoral posts as officials had a disproportionately high coefficient compared to lower levels of government officials. This is why it is proposed that the official posts, the director's posts be abolished and the ministerial assistant appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia be introduced. These laws provide for appropriate changes in the structure and detour of ministries and state-run administrative organisations, the establishment of 20 ministries is proposed, i.e. the formation of 20 ministries, which is a little more ministries compared to the current government but such a timetable, such a structure in our best way maintains the priorities, labour and reform priorities expressed in the electoral programme of parties and enables the government to function properly and effectively. In addition, it is proposed to set up three state offices and this whole complex of structures that we in clubs, we hold and view the promoters as a first step in the full reform of the state administration and expect the Government to continue its work very quickly, its regulations, regulatory work practically regulatory work to define and reduce management structures at lower levels within ministries. These laws regulate precisely the rationalisation of management structures at the top and leadership of the ministries, and we expect the government to continue with its actions a comprehensive reform of the state administration that will lead to rationalisation at lower levels. State officials who carry out their tasks should not fear for their jobs because the need for their work does not stop, neither ceases, nor does such legislative proposals as we presently bring and propose to the Croatian Assembly for adoption, and does not stop any of those tasks that stand before the government and concerning the implementation of the EU membership referendum on the preparation of institutions and citizens for future membership and do not cease either within the functioning of Croatia within the bodies and institutions of the EU. When we look at only the financial budgetary impact of such a proposed package of laws, then it is evident that at the level of the deputy ministers proposed instead of the state secretaries, that instead of 60 state secretaries appointed by the ministries that there will be 20 deputy ministers under this system, and instead of 153 directors of the ministry administrations that we will approximately provide for around 80 ministerial assistants. If only at the number level in all state administration bodies we look at the category of officials and government officials, then this kind of structure reduces the total number of such officials and state officials from the current 543 to 416. In financial terms, it is only savings on gross salaries for more than 25 million kuna per year, or more than 100 million kuna for the entire government mandate, with 155 million kuna on something below 130 million kuna at gross salary level annually. Of course, we expect that the government will further reduce the budget proposal for next year on the items of material costs for the state administration, but the whole question of the effectiveness of the state administration is a fundamental issue that we have here and this proposal of the law that we are facing. In the end, I propose to representatives of the Croatian Parliament to discuss these laws in today's debate and to adopt them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u132	Thank you very much, dear colleague Mimica. We have a few replicas. The first word came out, and the correction of the incorrect quote. The first came to the correction by a respected colleague, Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, dear colleague Mimica, you said a series of inaccuracies. And as a man in such a relationship with Brussels, they should know that depoliticalisation was conducted in accordance with a guideline from Brussels in 2005 when it was recommended that the state administration be depoliticalised and professionalised. And then, according to a recommendation from Brussels, ministerial assistants as politically appointed officials are being deleted, public competition directors were appointed. And you can't sell to the Croatian public that those you have decreed by the Government are democratic, and those appointed by the basis of the public tender are political criteria. And the other thing is, it's not true that you're going to do it. The director's coefficient in state administrations is 4.26, and the ministerial assistant coefficient you're proposing is 5.27. The coefficient for the secretary of the ministry is 4.26, and for the secretary general you're proposing is 4.69.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u134	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u135	So just take the 80 assistant ministers coefficient... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u136	Thank you very much, fellow Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u137	...a budget base of 3 thousand 200, so you'll see how big your increase is. Therefore, this is a pure political cleanup of professional people who have successfully completed negotiations with the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u138	Your Honor, thank you very much. Opinion is an opinion. Thank you very much. The next correction to the incorrect quote, the respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In his presentation, MP Mimica said that a little more ministries are being established. Mr. Mimica 4 new ministries and 1 new state office are being established, thus automatically increasing costs, increasing the number of resolution ministries, talking about rationalisation, and introducing new ministries raises costs and charges to the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u140	Comrade Salapic, Mr. Mimica has just stated what you're saying. There's no correction. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Djakic is the next advocate for the correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm going to correct the inaccuracies of a colleague who claimed that this was all for a better function, i.e. that the increase in the number of ministries is due to better functioning. I would argue that it is not true, that it is because of political care, that 4 ministries are higher, 3 offices certainly increase costs and that it will not contribute to any rationalisation. It is also incorrect that the directors were politically imposed and were not functional. They were part of European standards and were chosen in the competition. The EU directive made it clear how this must be and how this competition must be called for people and people. This all says that swords and razors are pulled out and that this is the best indication of the beginning of the head cutting.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u142	Thank you very much. The correcting of the incorrect quote came from a respected colleague, Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u143	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Mimica, you said I'd repeat, that we have four new ministries in the proposal, that you would propose three new state offices and that it would be more effective and functional government. So you're talking about not increasing the state administration in your campaign, now we see at the top of the agenda that that's not true. The truth isn't that we've had directors and everything on the political key so far, but it's true that this appointment, the appointment of an assistant minister, is political key. That's right, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u144	Thank you very much. Next to correct the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Ante Kulušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u145	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Mimica says that civil servants who do quality work should not be afraid, which is absolutely not true, quite the opposite. All those principals who came for the contest will be replaced, and they have done their job quality. And this is okay with my colleagues, pure political cleanup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u146	Thank you very much. The next correction of the incorrect quote, the respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Mimica incorrectly said that the work of the secretary of state was adapted daily to political needs. That's incorrect. The secretary of state worked very well and responsibly with their work and they did their colleague Mimica, and we will see from you what you will do and what you will do. But if this is the model you're announcing today about this Law on the selection of mayors and mayors who are models, then it's a model that points to an act that reminds us of another time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u148	Thank you very much. We're done correcting incorrect allegations. After the opening argument, would the workbody rapporteurs take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you very much. We're going to a club debate. The first to speak was a colleague, Damir Cain, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u149	If I were to tell you what would happen to these secretary of state, you'd be grateful to the motionary. But before that, gentlemen, I wish, allow me at least so much, to congratulate Mr. Sprem on the election. I also thank you for the work of Luka Bebić, who has had a hard time working in this House in the last year. I argue that after Mesic, after Manulic, it must have been the hardest thing for him, although it should be fair and admit that until now every President of the Parliament has contributed or installed a part of himself in this Croatian parliamentism. And it doesn't matter if it's Mr. Domjan or Mr. Mesic or Mihanovic or Academyman Pavletic, Mr. Sheks, they all gave themselves. I also want to stand up for Mr. Bukarica who has done his job properly and is guaranteed by the ruling majority, and you all know very well what "abject" way he came here. Secondly, I am also pleased that Mrs Blažević, after her co-operation with Mr Domjan and Mesic and Mihanović and Pavletić and Sheks, has returned to this chair again. Speaking of expenses, I told you everything. A new policy in my court, you don't listen to me, unfortunately, can't run politics with old people whatever you think, and that's why I said that I'm determining what the fate of those who came by the political dictatorship would be much worse. ... /The noise in the hall./... I don't know why you gentlemen didn't object when Karamarko now named what, 85 I read somewhere in general. How you didn't rebel against it, what it means in the police department to 30,000 people 85 generals. But let's let it go now, that's what I'm saying for myself. Each government should be given an opportunity to arrange the work of its ministries. The contours of this government were known to all of us through the media. Okay, there'll be fewer officials, no more secretary of state. Is the system going to be cheaper, but logically, it's going to be cheaper, it's logical. I want to believe it, I want to believe it will be more effective. I look forward to some new ministries, first of all under point 9. At the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, I am pleased with the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Social Policy and Small Ones. And indeed, this economy of regional entrepreneurship and crafts is necessary for us. What we have in Croatia today, we have in Croatia about 100 large companies that employ over 300 people. There he works in these companies, 150 thousand people, making about 50% of that economic income, a full budget of about 25% in that part. We have a thousand medium-sized companies with over 100 to 200, 300 people, hiring 150 thousand people again, making 25% of the economic income, a full budget of 25%. And we have 95 thousand small companies that employ 1, 2, 5, 10 people, in which there are 750 thousand people, making about 25% of the economic income, and the state budget full of 50%. Of the 95 thousand Croatian companies, 65,000 is insolvent. Right, it's a lot and fictional, and I follow it on the Istrian case, until 30.09.2011. we had 2451 companies that are insolvent, and they only have 1593 employees. So at least 2,000 companies don't have workers, but that's why they have a billion and a half unfinished liabilities. First thing you need to do until you meet your obligations, you can't open a new company, work in a public system or anything else. He can't guarantee a small craftsman with all his assets and a large one with 18 thousand share capital. What needs to be solved is work on black. Let each fill out the tax revenues. Whether or not the releases will come back, I'd like a tax return, actually, so the budget would be charged faster. Clearly, the most grateful job today, I spoke to Kerum a little while ago, is in the public sector. In this public sector, 388 thousand people work in the Republic of Croatia, in Austria, 380 thousand people. In the last two years, 150 thousand jobs have collapsed in the Croatian real sector. That's what the gentlemen gave us your fight. 150 thousand jobs in the public sector, no one left without a job. The question today is what will happen to Croatian shipbuilding. That's what I'd say is the key to this government's success. In the last 15 years it has been recovered or the claims of 40 billion kuna have been written off, and they have sold together 40 billion kuna ships. Everyone else is except the Oilies on their knees. Unfortunately, I'm afraid it might be the next day. Today I spoke to several people who run the shipyards and tell me tell Milanovic, tell Cacic, tell the ministers, make them go to Russia to get jobs. Exactly. Exports, exports. Let me just say I'll talk about Istria. A billion 270 million kuna, the Split Chamber $531 million pardon, county chamber, say Zadar only 166 million, Rijeka only 581 million, Varazdin 684. Tourism, not manipulations with tourist land, not manipulations. It doesn't belong to large systems privatized without one kuna. If someone bought something with their money hat down, stay put. Those who came to that tourist house with money ok, but what about these pifs, Liburnias etc. It can't be that tourist homes rent in campsites some facilities for big money, and those 20 years don't pay for tourist land. It can't be that in one of Dekuman's small craftsmen pays 15 euros a square meter, and in one Coversada 100 ha, those who use it don't pay a single kuna and yet mock you're a failure, and we're successful. I want to say when I talk about this small sector that they literally need help. They don't need to be given anything, they don't need to be given anything, but they need help. The tycoons came to the factory, the pifs came to the hotel, the workers came to the apartments, the peasants came to the country some. The doctors to the office, the church through denationalization, got everything she wanted and a little more than that. Foreigners got banks. I'm very interested in selling Hypo Bank to how much it's going to market in one of Austria. Probably more than it was obtained for the sale of all banks in the Republic of Croatia by 2000. The craftsmen of the craftsman can't even reach the space. Clearly nothing should be given to anyone here. But I just want to make it clear that somehow they need help. What I personally consider was good in the systematization of ministries in the Government of Jadranka Kosor, this is the Ministry of Investment. In 2008, we had 4.5 billion dollars in investments in the country, 2009. 2 billion, 2010 only 0.5 billion dollars. So 500 million dollars. This year maybe it'll be about a billion dollars. True, I'm afraid it won't be much better in 2012. But I praised that ministry then, so I praise it here today. What I want, too, is to believe that something will be done in the area of decentralisation, not to quote the ministries. First the financial ones. The formation of Croatia as if it were not the worst solution. I don't think local self-government should be sacrificed to preserve some unnecessary agencies, offices, directorates that some mentioned earlier at national level. The first thing I want to say is because of some MPs who are constantly talking about the need to abolish these small municipalities as it is set up in Europe. Sweden had two thousand 281 municipalities in the '50s. Today it's 289. Denmark had a thousand 387 in the '50s. Today, only 467. But one Austria on 10 million inhabitants still has 2301 municipalities, 2300. Germany in '94. She was 14808. Spain at 40 million inhabitants 8082. One France 36729. Italy at 60 million 8 thousand 99, etc. etc. So, both Italy and Switzerland and France and Germany and Austria and the Czech municipalities have fewer inhabitants than the Croatian average. True, many of these countries are five or ten times more organized and richer than we are. It means where municipalities can live without the support of the state to survive. Where there are no conditions if they can be helped well, if not, then they need to be examined clearly. Second of all, someone mentioned wages a little while ago. Be careful, it is impossible to abolish the number of 60 or more State Secretarys that there will be no need for less funds. But there are a few more problems. For example, in these public sectors, Jadranplov 51549 kuna net, air navigation control 46459, the prime minister or future prime minister will have to work for that money for 2 months. Podravka 44736, underground gas storage 38929 kuna, Croatia airports 34778 kuna, Plinacro not gross but net, net 33129, Viktor Lenac etc. 31,000 and so on. It's clear that the only thing I object to is what's not being said about the revision of the conversion. I'm afraid there won't be much. But no matter what form the new government should support. Never because I never voted against the formation of any government supported by HDZ. There's something else to talk about, but I've always supported it. Each government must make its own policy clear. And that's why I want to believe that it will support this political opponent as well. But you will agree with me that the political under quotes the colored must leave the place to the new people because the new policy cannot be run with the old people, both at the level of state administration and public enterprises. Understandably, this set of these five IDS laws will support. What? I didn't get old. I'm still thinking a little bit more alive than you!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u150	We were a little more intolerant towards colleague Cain. It was the usual retrospective speech of fellow Caine and he earned a correction of the quote. The first respected representative, Ana Lovrin, reported for correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's what you said about what you didn't warn Mr. Representatives all the time to speak completely off the subject that's on the agenda, and the darkness is a set of laws that I'd say is their main feature that the wheel of democracy is spinning backwards and that I'm now going to come to a correction and that depolitisation according to the guidelines of the state administration is actually returning to one thorough politicization. But now I'm correcting the quote that was out of the agenda, and then I'm going to correct it, which is that for Mr. Bukarica's sake, that Mr. Bukarica came to this Croatian Parliament as secretary of the plenary session in a shameful way. It's simply incorrect and it's rude to Mr. Bukarica, and also to this House. So he came in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the club of representatives just as Mrs Blažević has today come in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the proposal of the second club of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u152	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u153	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u154	A fellow Cain, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u155	Yes, in a shameful way, Mrs. Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u156	A colleague of Caine's.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u157	In a shameful way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u158	A colleague of Caine's.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u159	But Mr. Bukarica did his job fairly, and that's why he deserves both my and our respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u160	A colleague of Caine's.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u161	And that man will not be sacrificed as Mrs Blažević was.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u162	Comrade Cain, as an experienced representative, help this House to be ruled by the Rules of Procedure, so please be nice. ... I don't want to pollemize, I'm just asking you nicely to help us to be ruled by the Rules of Procedure in Parliament. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's it. The next correction of the incorrect quote, the respected representative Miljan Brkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u163	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of counterpart Caine when he said that over 80 police generals were appointed to the Ministry of Interior. I am pleased that Mr. Cain knows the various spheres of our society, economy, finance, exports, imports, and I thank him for that, I hope that we will have a lot to hear from him in this Croatian Parliament, but I think that this rhetoric here in the Croatian Parliament is not appropriate and I appeal to everyone not to threaten anyone from this position, nor to send any threatening messages. But the correction of the incorrect assumption is that Mr. Cain allows me to understand myself a little more in the police system than he does, so now responsible here I claim, the new law on police and the new regulations adopted by the past government is only one place... Police advisor, unlike the 2001 law when 136 seats were standardized. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Wait a minute, sir. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u164	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u165	Allow me. Can I finish? ... I wasn't in your word. Let me finish. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u166	Time, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u167	So the 2001 law. 136 normably, there is now a place of chief police advisor, no one has been appointed yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u168	Thank you very much. You said thank you very much. A respected representative, Dujomir Marasovic, reported on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u169	I've shown, I'm sorry, I've answered for the correction of an incorrect quote, I've proved wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u170	Excuse me, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u171	Your Honor, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u172	Excuse me, Your Honor, you have not obtained the conditions to lift the plate to correct the incorrect allegations because the speech of the representative you were referring to has already been completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u173	You didn't see it, but it doesn't matter. I'll take the second wheel.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u174	It's okay, it's not gonna ruin the world. We'd better respect the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. It won't ruin the world. The next correction to the incorrect quote, the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u175	Well, here's the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, and I'm the first to report here in the Parliament. I'm sorry that in this organizational... We didn't get at least this Rules of Procedure about work, so I guess if I make a mistake, you'll excuse me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At first, here's Mr. Cain for correcting the incorrect allegations, he said the State Secretary was a great burden to the state administration, and I think it was the other way around, that they were carrying a great burden, especially here in these last days, especially we know who we are from the local self-government unit. He also said that he was doing this structure so that he would do it much worse and more drastically, so here I am at this early Christmas break I want little Jesus to come to him and here to soften his heart.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u176	Thank you, dear colleague, but it's good to move on to a new mandate with a clear view of correcting an incorrect assumption. So state the quote you want to correct, quote it. I'm asking you nicely. Thank you very much. To correct the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u177	Mr. President, I wanted to correct the allegations of being also bound by the alleged appointment of 80 generals who is absolutely incorrect, but I think I must make it clear that this verbal flash that we've been listening to seems to me with a lot of data and everything should actually cover up that truth, which is that new ministries are being created, that new people are going to be hired, and they're going to create a new cost, and everything on the claim that red tape will be reduced and the cost cut. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u178	Thank you very much. The next correction to the incorrect allegations came from a respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u179	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm joining these corrections with what my colleagues have mentioned, but I've noticed the one where colleague Cain said he didn't determine the fate of the State Secretary. Incorrectly, you determine very well, but you are, unfortunately, threatening, and threatening because you are part of the ruling coalition and I am really worried about this way, by sending a message of dialogue with the citizens you promised in the pre-election campaign, so I'm going back to the old one, obviously Cain came out of the woods and apparently threatened and even with the rifle.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u180	It's not a proper correction, but we're not going to share the packs. We'll finish these papers. Let's move on. It's a club debate. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u181	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I'll cut my debate as short as possible because of the 19 hours we've agreed on. First, the ruling and the Kukurik coalition, since I first speak to the speaker as president of the club publicly, I want to give congratulations for winning the absolute majority in Parliament and I want to believe that both the Parliament and the Government will have, so I wish them a lot of happiness, a lot of patience with us opposition, knowledge and skills to make Croatia a happy and better country in these four years. As for the draft law of all five of which we are discussing today, if I understand well 20 ministries, one or more Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Minister of One, Assistant One or More, Secretary-General of the Ministry who, however, is not a state official but would be appointed by competition, and in the Government Office of the Prime Minister, the Secretary-General, and the Secretary-General is a state official and is still the Government's office. It's about a mosaic image so that approximately the executive authority at national level should function. Now is that good? Until tomorrow we see candidates for these 20 places, so that's what people are talking about, and until we hear the programme of the government that fellow Milanovic will present, I can only say that we welcome it, and we support it, that it is the foundation of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System because it was really necessary for Croatia after all the wanderings we had about it in 21 years, and we will, of course, say that this is a good solution. In view of the fact that my colleague Mimica has only stated in his oral explanation the savings and the effects of the application of these laws, if I have calculated correctly 127 is the difference in the number of existing to planned or when this is applied new. I want you to first find all the agencies, seduce and offices around Zagreb that I know exist, but we could never find any of them, to educate where their offices are at all. And secondly, I end up with that, if it's just 127 then it's too small. Serious change, serious restructuring of the public administration is possible when very seriously restructured by managing the fit. I'm afraid this 127 number isn't enough. Article 11 indicates that energy belongs to the economy, I do not know whether or not concessions. Do you know of a tender closing on 3 January for 14 concession fields in the gas and oil pan? React until it is too late, we will also lose that jewel, a resource that still remains if this competition is not carried out until the end in Croatian hands. And now I've got other obligations to attend to, so I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u182	Thank you very much, dear fellow Lesar. The correcting of the incorrect quote came from a respected colleague Dujomir Marasovic. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u183	Dear Mr. President, I hope I'm not too late right now, correcting Mr. Lesar's incorrect assumption that we are being congratulated in the Croatian Parliament. I'm sorry that Mr. Lesar came out, I'm in the Croatian Parliament, it was supposed to be the Croatian National Assembly, but if it isn't the Croatian National Assembly. ... It's not the same, it's not. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u184	Let's stick to corrections.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u185	In America is Congress or Senate, in Tel Aviv KNESET, here is the Croatian Parliament. I am in the Croatian Parliament and I am asking all speakers from all sides of all political options to further harass me in the title of this honorable Croatian Parliament with a Croatian or some other parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u186	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the club debate. The next is the HDSSB representative club, respected representative Dinko Buric. ... Yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Two MPs on behalf of the club. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic and Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u187	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I am also using the opportunity to congratulate the newly elected president and vice-presidents of the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the HDSSB club. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues congratulated once again on the election of representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament as well as as as I have already told today elected officials headed by the President and vice-presidents of the Croatian Parliament I would like to express our sincere wish and hope that we will all justify the great expectations of voters who have shown our confidence and that at any moment we will remain aware of the fact that we are not representing ourselves or the party in the Croatian Parliament, but above all Croatian citizens. Today it's established VII. The assembly of the Croatian Parliament. The item on the agenda on which the debate is now being held – the proposal of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also on the second point – the proposal of the Law on the establishment and the division of the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration on behalf of the HDSSB club and I will discuss it briefly because here we are waiting for this agreed meeting at 19 hours, and the remaining three points have been asked to continue the debate by the distinguished colleague Dr. Boro Grubisic. This is what we need to talk about, and we need to talk about it, but right now, I'm just gonna talk about it in principle. In principle, for a number of reasons. One of them is that the truth is that we also received this material on the benches of the representatives just before the start of this extraordinary session, but we consider it partly and justified, given that today it was a constitutive session of the Croatian Parliament. Another reason is that it can be debated, but not entirely precise and whether or not this proposal of the Government Act will provide preconditions for the most efficient, rational and best functioning of the future Croatian government. In itself, the question is, is it best to form a ministry one way or another, is it good to have 20 ministries instead of 16 so far? Even though it is hard to believe that the increase in the number of ministries will be in itself beneficial to Croatian citizens at the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, we believe that at this moment only the increase in number is not and does not have to be an indication whether the future Croatian government will succeed or fail and whether or not it will justify the expectations of Croatian citizens. After all, if the prime minister for the formation of the new government has a mandate for its assembly, and has, then he has the right to propose its appearance and composition as he thinks it will be best for Croatia and its citizens. It is his right, but it is understandablely responsible if it is proved to be a bad solution. We hope that doesn't happen. Therefore, the HDSSB club will not be against these proposals, but we will remain abstention on this occasion, expressing hope that the proposed laws will ultimately bring Croatia to the Republic of Croatia, but also to all Croatian citizens, yet bring the result that citizens rightly expect. Not paper changes but a better life, a better present and a more certain future than it was boredom. I thank and ask that my colleague Grubisic, if he can continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u188	Thank you very much. Comrade Boro Grubisic, part two.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian National Assembly. Here we are today discussing legal proposals in the first, second and all other readings and other proposals on the urgent proposal and nine legislative proposals exactly. And the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which should be a proposing, did not propose these legislative proposals, but SDP, HNS, IDS and Croatian pensioners' parties, it is a little interesting that at the time or the day of the Croatian Parliament's constitution, we have such a bit of a radical session, which is clumsy and slightly unseriously organized, so we get materials like our colleague Buric said and we take half an hour breaks, and we're on fire at 20 hours this day. We would love it if it resulted in what is the goal of such legal proposals, state administration, government, etc. So the increase in the number of ministries from 16 to 20 or exactly if you want a mathematical statistical 25%, it is true that it is intended, as counterpart Mimica said, to save 25 million kuna a year or 4 years if the mandate is to the end of 100 million kuna, but we would like to see after the first year or after 6 months of results and to know whether this is achieved especially because the number of ministries has been increased and especially because the number of government offices is increasing to three. They remain that there's a colleague named Bauk in VI here. Calls on the Croatian Parliament to talk about a number of agencies, offices, services, institutes and all kinds of institutions of government and all others in the state administration that need to be rationalised, conscious of a reasonable number, I do not see that anything here is diminishing from it, everything remains, instead of the secretary of state of the 60 that was now 20. The directors of the administration become ministerial assistants, but it is interesting in the proposal for a law on the state administration system with the Final Bill to see what the roles of the ministry are, which is the role of the state office. So he says, "The state offices carry out administrative and other professional tasks in their own department and, in particular, design professional bases, apply laws", best not to apply laws, but also to, "prepare drafts of laws, resolve administrations", and the same thing that government offices do and what their role is and what's written on page 43 of Article 44 is done by state administration organisations, institutions and directors. It is almost identical, see what is the role of state administrations, institutions and directors, and what is the role of state offices, you almost have 6 items in that article exactly the same. So I wonder at all, and you know for yourself that without rationalising the state administration, without rationalising in ministries in all institutions, agencies and in their numbers but also in telling employees and places and we know well that two, three roles therefore, roles and functions are being doubled, their work is being done by several people doing the same job, etc. And now that the Croatian state is in crisis there is no God knows what rationalizations. 25 million kuna per year is not some observable or signifying money that would be significant for the state in which this country is. So I think this is when it comes to financial benefits, these changes of law then they're financial cosmetic changes, nothing more, let's not fool ourselves. In several of my speeches and earlier, I said that we actually have the county, as it is liked to say regional self-government, it is not a region, but we have 20 counties and the city of Zagreb, that there are actually two counties and all those offices that exist in the offices of the state administration in the county, exist both in the county and for education and for health and all other functions that the county has. That's where the possibility of rationalization was to be sought. It is clear that during the time in this Croatian National Assembly there will also be a debate on the regional administrative reconstruction of the entire Republic of Croatia, but in this, currently in these materials clearly that this is not the topic I would not be talking about now. As far as hiring on the political key is concerned, it's here starting with, as someone said here in front of me in these benches, from the squawks or garbage dumplings to the secretary of state or how you want to say Deputy Minister, so that's quite clear. You can't hire a garbage man in a communal ship or anywhere you want without asking whether he's HDZ, SDP, Rights Party, etc. That's right. It's just that partothocracy has been so for 20 years in this country and different, but when we talk about people who need to be in government rights, then we should really ask who's professional and who's not, not who's a member of any political option. I don't know, but I'd love to. Because my predecessor, Buric HDSSB, said, will not be against these legal proposals or, therefore, we will be restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u190	Thank you, too. Let's move on, on behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament and my congratulations on choosing this function. So colleagues and colleagues of the HDZ Club will not support the package of these laws. For several reasons, we do not dispute the right to take responsibility for the government's government's structure and ultimately take responsibility for the government's functioning. So that's something we don't argue about. We also hope that you will not dispute with us that we have the right to make our remarks and suggestions on certain things that you have suggested here. I also believe that with these regardless of what seems to be the benign laws and technical laws, however, they are intruding into many human fates. Since it was not disputed today that the ruling majority would be in a position to propose to the government tomorrow, I think these materials should have come early to the bench so we could all look at them. It's likely that the debates and many reluctances would be gone. However, what I would like to say at the outset has always been when the governments of certain political shifts and changes have changed and it is not good to cover up these or those changes to the law. But what I can't agree with is the labeling of people who have done the job we've all been dealing with here and those who have been in power, and today those who have been in opposition today are in power, these people have brought negotiations with the EU to their coat of arms. State secretaries and directors of the administration were operationally carrying amendments to the law, many of them participated in negotiations, were our negotiators, and I think that the minimum of decency, regardless of what you decided to change, is going towards not labeling them. The more most of these people aren't in any political party. And it's not true and I'm sorry that my colleague Mimica said it, I say a man who's been in foreign policy for a long time should know that one of the conditions for closing the chapter of the state administration was depolitisation carried out in accordance with the recommendations of Brussels in 2005. It was then asked that because of the efficient state administration, the leadership of people should not change during any political change, to depolitise a large part of the leaders of the state administration, to become professionals, to place predominantly certain professional and qualification conditions for their appointment. So that they have a certain professional arrangement, that they have a certain working experience and that it is a basic prerequisite for their choice for a particular job. Based on this, a competition has been opened, and many directors have been elected. And now as far as wages are concerned, look at the question of how this decision will ring out in Brussels and the question of how the World Bank will react to it, because the World Bank has given Croatia credit for reforming the state administration that has just asked for ministerial assistants to be eliminated so as to be a political function and to establish the position of directors as professional people working in the state administration by the new Law on civil servants. And now that we like to brag about how we're gonna do something. Look, the director's coefficient was 4.26, and the ministerial assistant's coefficient is at the level of the parliamentary representatives' coefficient, so the coefficient is 5.27, so one of them increases the coefficient, and the budgetary base I think is 3,000,200 kuna. So take 80, 90 helpers, multiply that by that amount, and you'll get to that. The second thing, the State Secretarys had a coefficient of 5.27, the current proposed deputy minister is proposing a coefficient of 5.70. It's all in these materials, so it's not my invention, I'm reading what it says. Likewise, directors of the administration, so I have already said so, and state administrations are therefore foreseen to have the main secretaries of the ministry that should now have a coefficient instead of the current 4.26, 4.69, is also the current place of the Prime Minister's office's office to be abolished, and instead of introducing a job as director of the government's office with a coefficient of 4.69, and so far it has been a coefficient of 3,68. So, on the small door because we pushed the last minute, since most colleagues have no record of what these people's coefficients were until now, and the logical thing is that this first thing is going to go quietly. So much for employees. And as far as the ministries are concerned, it's notorous that you're increasing the number of ministries from 15 to 20 that's a notorious fact. Every minister and his office and that team around him requires new employment, because if three new ministries come from the economy ministry, then the logical thing is that these ministries should have what they have. However, by reading this material quickly, because there was not much time, man expected that no matter how much ad hoc is written like this, the proposal of what the ministry will do will be able to read in a certain way the famous program that tomorrow's prime minister will propose to us so that no matter how we didn't get it, we will be able to extract something from this and see what kind of program this government is offering us. And what struck me, and I'm sorry there's no colleagues here. So a new labour ministry and pension system are being established. And now that I've seen it on page it's either 3 or 4, Article 2 where the newly established ministries are and now I thought when I set up the Ministry of Labour and Pension System I expected there would be a lot, a lot of things written about pensioners, about the pension system, because their mouths were full of pensioners. And you know how many of my dear pensioners if you're watching this article say about pensioners? Not half a sentence. Anything written by the Ministry of Labour and the Pension System as far as the pensioners are concerned, will be written by the pension insurance system and policy. So that's all it says in terms of the new ministry's work. Not a single link to HZMO or any link to the capital fund where the property of Croatian pensioners is, and not a single word with it is with voluntary pension funds where the funds are from the second pillar of the pension. This clearly indicates that many ministries are and that is what I want to conclude this part of the debate is due to satisfy party appetites for chairs. That's a fact. Because why else would a ministry like this? And what's very interesting about transitional and final provisions is what's going to go away, who's going to take over whose jobs. And then here's a very interesting thing being said to be the establishment of a state property management office, and we have a State Property Management Agency where the entire state property is, so the former Privatisation Fund and the former State Property Office. Now, if a new State Property Office is set up, then the logical thing is that in transitional and final provisions, at least indicate what's going to happen to that... The State Property Management Agency. [[You don't understand.]] Because look, if you don't point that out here tomorrow you'll have a conflict of interest, you'll have a government property management agency that exists, which you haven't abolished and you have a newly established State Property Office. Which one of them will be the one who manages state property I don't know, but you'll probably have to answer that because you'll manage. If this material had been made ad hoc, that this material that meets the political needs for functions was the fact and amendments that you have submitted to the benches, you who have proposed this material, so the material that was created quickly, which is not a realistic reflection of the situation in Croatia, the material that does not accept all the problems in which Croatia is located, because that we are accepting these problems, then probably the ministry at the head of which it is supposed to be Mr. Cacic would not be as rounded as it is, but it would also be predicted clearly what is meant by energy and what is thought of industry. Do we need more Ministry of Economy today or do we need the Ministry of Energy and Industry? I think that since the State Property Management Office is easy for us, the Ministry of Economy is something that dies because what the state does not have in its property has great economic potential but it has something else then logical thing to have the Ministry of State where Croatia has tomorrow's perspective, which is primarily energy and industry or trade. Also, it is definitely that we will all agree here to arrange state administrations that are on the ground and are causing quite a lot of dissatisfaction of Croatian citizens, that was in 2004 and 2005 and all that time the political options are changing, but unfortunately some individuals down there to say so with a building permit for a year etc. Something else, however, has not been mentioned here at all what will be done with these institutions that have been decapitated and which do not have a link practically to anyone. He can't be the minister of the administration responsible for the authority of some state administration that's in a city that's doing the job of the Minister of Construction. Totally illogical. And if the Minister of Construction has jurisdiction over him, he doesn't. And if you don't solve it and you don't get it right then the citizens will be unhappy with the functioning of the state administration because citizens can't come to the ministries for their own good, but to issue a building permit they come to those offices. There are cities where it works great, there are cities where it's a disaster. But whoever's supposed to be nivelling it and who's supposed to set it up is some kind of ministry. It's not here. I'll see what it says in the program tomorrow. EU funds. I am glad that part came to the heart of my fellow Greeks, but I am not glad what I saw many of them have EU funds on them. If this issue is not under one command, unfortunately the use of EU funds will be very little. That's a fact, and that's what I'm saying many ministries overlap. And look, you will see that many responsibilities, especially in this economic area, overlap for the simple reason why everyone would want to take money from these EU funds. But those money don't give away, and we're gonna have to make that money with good projects. And that's why it's very important that no man, no matter who it is, coordinates with it and everyone else directs the part that belongs to it. Then those 2.5 billion that are for cohesion and structural funds will have a very high percentage of the use. If we don't do it like this, and unfortunately the government's proposal, the government's new structure isn't so planned, then it won't be good. Why, why am I saying that? So I am talking about the reason why those who have combined this, the Central Office for the State Strategy and the coordination of the European Union funds, are practically moving to the Ministry of Regional Development. What about that department that was at the Treasury, what about the Contracting Agency? They were the key to training and learning to withdraw money from pre-accession funds. Where are you going to put them? If they stay in the air, then this part that goes to a fellow Greek won't be anywhere. So I repeat, a lot of ministries to satisfy a lot of chairs, a lot of overlapping jobs that unfortunately won't offer efficiency, and that's why we simply can't support the draft of these laws. And I would ask once again out of pure respect for the colleagues who carried them, to present most of the burdens in the negotiations for the European Union for the past 8 years not to label them because most of these people are not in any political party, they are extremely professional and capable. If you don't believe me, ask people from the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u192	Thank you very much. We have concluded this debate by the clubs of representatives of the Croatian Parliament. A proposaler representative, a respected representative, Arsen Bauk, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u193	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the motionary, I just want to look back at Mr. Shuker's exposure. One part was also well-oriented, especially as regards the Office of State Administration in Countys. We have rewritten the current legal solutions from the current law, but we will work on it and already the Department's working group has prepared some solutions that we will look at. As far as pay goes, let's make it very clear. If something's done by 60 people, and now it's going to work 20 people, then there's savings for about 2/3 regardless of what these 20 people are going to have a coefficient of 0.5 greater than it's ever been before. And if something has worked 150 people so far, and now it's going to work 90 people around, on average, then there's also savings, regardless of whether the coefficient is something greater. Otherwise the coefficient 4.26 when compared to this 5.27 should be increased by 0.42 because the base is 10% difference. And so only at that level would the savings amount to 22 million and 800 thousand kuna at the annual level. Mr. Grubisic said it wasn't much, so here's what if every day we brought solutions that would save 22 million and 800 kuna, it would be 9 billion at the annual level. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u194	Thank you very much to the motionary. We're continuing the debate. Excuse me, we have a correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Shuker Ivan.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bauk, I don't know what you think, I'm talking about a ministry that I know how it works, reducing the number of ministerial assistants if they have to lead the administration, and these administrations simply can't function without them. That's one thing. But let's just say that this math of yours is okay. And that he's halfway along the way because of the increase in coefficients. But you have something else you forgot. You have five new ministries. The ministry demands a series of costs from the ministry How is it not a correction? [[Intruder Leko: A fellow correction please.]] If I'm not mistaken, I'm sorry, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Bauk said there would be 25 million savings. I'm correcting that's not the way it is, and I'm elaborated my correction. I'm not one of those talking in my head. [[- Intruder Leko: Good.]] So if you add five new ministerial salaries, if you add everything that goes with one cabinet, then you'll see how much money it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u196	Thank you very much. The next correction to the incorrect allegations is the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u197	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I'm also correcting this same assumption that 25 million kuna will be saved. It is not true from the fact that already in this proposed structure we have the fact that we have several ministries, that we have so far had 60 State Secretarys and 16 Ministers and that this proposed system is already crossing over 100. So we have 20 ministers, 20 deputies and 80 assistants. That's already 120 officials. At the same time, the directors of the administration of the present remain within the system. They don't go anywhere, they don't have a year. These are officers who were inside the system and were all in order of an apolitical person, i.e. they are not members of any party. This may have been the best way to get rid of them, but this is a classic political cleanup. The people who carried this system, especially so far, have entered the European Union and all those negotiations, and will now return to something lower because they must remain in the system. They cannot be resolved and removed And we will have a much, much more expensive system and you will see it very quickly and much more ineffective. [[Leko: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u198	Thank you very much. The next correction to an incorrect quote by the respected representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's almost the same correction as a colleague. In fact, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Bauk said that something that has so far worked 60 people will now work 20. That's incorrect. It will now be done by 20 deputy ministers plus 80 assistants who have been raised to the rank of state official with a salary so far held by the secretary of state, and the deputy minister's salary has been increased compared to the salary of the current secretary of state. So there's nothing to save. And you need to do it again. This 153 director of the administration appointed as the basis of the public tender will have to remain in the system and new 80 assistants will be brought in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u200	Thank you very much. We're moving on with an individual debate of MPs. First for the word Davor Stier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u201	Thank you, Vice President. And here's since for the first time I've taken my word and my congratulations to you and to all my colleagues and colleagues. So the key reason why I can't support this package of laws is that it's essentially preventing reforms. He has one express anti-reformal actually direction. I think we all have to agree here that when and in the process of negotiations with the European Union, we mentioned the need for reform of the state administration that was precisely the direction of depoliticalisation and professionalisation of the state administration. And that's exactly why the law changed. The deputy minister's position as a political function has been abolished and directors have been introduced. Now instead of going further into professionalization, because that is one process, the reform process. I also expected the new ruling majority to move on. Because of course any system can be further improved. Instead of getting such a proposal today on the benches we've got a proposal that brings us back. So it goes back to the introduction of a category where administrations will run people who are politically similar, not those who are capable. And that's the point of the problem. Here I come from the state administration system, and I remember the mistakes that were made in 2000 when, for example, most of the ministerial assistants were removed in the foreign ministry, some of them remained and were then appointed as assistants by party, party key. However, it has been shown here and my colleague Picula may be able to confirm to me, it has proved that the most prominent assistants were those who remained, who had the expertise of Vladimir Drobnjak, Josko Paro. So, people who weren't on the party key. And instead of us going further into the affirmation of such a reform, the professionalization of the state administration, further reform of the state administration we return with this proposal back to politicization. And it is incorrect indeed to declare the principals here inadequate, political and then replace them in order to come politically similar. That's not the criteria to be managed. Yes, it is true that as far as legal gain is concerned, there is not one solution that is simply the same for all countries. However, it is also a recommendation and a trend in Western Europe to go into further professionalisation of state administration rather than politicisation. So exactly the opposite of what most of us are proposing here. But much more important than what Brussels will say is what Croatian citizens will say. So, we have to tell the Croatian citizens this proposal again that there will be people at the head of the administration who have come to this place because they are members of the ruling party. Now, that's not good, and that's why I can't support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u202	Thank you very much. The next one's a representative, and we've got one, I'm sorry. All right, all right. Take it easy. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u203	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I will correct an incorrect allegation that has been going through here all along, which is the politicization of these functions. This proposal is now heading towards a clear division of political and non-political functions. The appointment of a director in public tenders, in falsified public tenders, is part of the political adjustment of the process. That should be called a clear and loud real name. This proposal is heading precisely towards the separation of the political part from that expert competitive part.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u204	Thank you very much, fellow Bernardic. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was reported by respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u205	Mr. Chairman, I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. If you allow such rhetoric, then this House will turn into chaos. Mr. Bernardic, you're too young to be insulted like this, and I'm not going to use a harder word.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u206	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u207	214. Not him, but you, for you did not warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u208	I didn't hurt anything, thank you very much. ... Easy, we've got time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All Croatian interests will be expressed, only slowly, by all citizens and everyone, slowly. We'll take care of everything. Col. Davor Bernardic reported that someone hurt the Rules of Procedure, who is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u209	This Regulation shall enter into force on the First of all, I don't understand why you feel called and raised and reacted. I don't understand it first.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u210	What provision? Comrade Davor, what provision?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u211	What I have to say is I would hate for this debate to turn and correct the incorrect allegations into free interpretation of something that I would have said about the debate. Guys, let's stick with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u212	Thank you very much. Let's end the injuries. Let's go with a constructive discussion, feel like he's right in front of us. The next speaker is the respected representative Josip Salapic or Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u213	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. What you would say today first about you MPs who are currently the majority in this High Croatian House and we have spent along with some of you two and a half years in my opinion key moments for Croatia, to conclude negotiations for Croatia's entry into the European Union, we have passed a series of laws that have changed the way and fate of Croatia for which I am sure that the Government of the Croatian Democratic Community has done the most. I am personally as a representative disappointed with some of you, with your ridicule today, by looking in wonder and by demeaning everything that we have done in 17 years of rule in Croatia. You colleagues and colleagues have had for it for three years and failed to maintain your coalition, quickly lost power. What I want to tell you today at the beginning of this, it was supposed to be a formal session, I expected you to be well prepared for the laws that are key to the formation of your new government tomorrow, waiting for the full eight years,... You are new democratic standards, you have announced a political cultural and polite behavior, you have announced that you will treat people completely differently from what you have falsely and often accused us here by leaving the assembly, I expected you to be a serious coalition that has received the trust of the Croatian people because you had a program. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Your European spirit today has shown that you have nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u214	Comrade Salapic, you've moved on a little bit. Let's focus a little on the essence.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u215	I'll be on my way. That's the point. I'm talking about. ... Mr. Vice President, when we could get five minutes before the parliamentary boards down a set of these laws, I have an introduction to laws that I will say I don't support, so let me speak freely, because I didn't personally hurt anyone, I give my political position for what I don't think is good. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'll get to these laws. I've got 10 minutes. Thank you very much. Five minutes before the board meeting, you delivered these laws to us on the agenda and expected us to give you support for it. The beginning is about people, people's fates, their families, their children who will celebrate Christmas Eve in two days and who receive salaries from the state budget, from the Croatian cash register, from what they gave their taxes and contributions for this Croatia. And don't forget one thing, it's not about numbers, whether something will work from 60 to 20, Mr. President Bauk, you'll see it in practice. You can't know that when you haven't had experience doing it and running it, you'll only know that when you start doing it. For, for me, I'm sure it won't work, it won't work because these laws, these five laws that you've proposed today, I consider your political arrangements, I think it's gonna work, by making up new sound headlines for the ministries that I'm sure as a lawyer they sound good, maybe by sound, but in practice they'll have problems. You had to please your coalition partners, you had to satisfy the coalition that participated in the elections with you, you had to arrest new ministers, you had to expand the ministries, you had to remove the state secretaries as a foll under quotes, the jobs that our secretary of state had done in the most difficult moments for Croatia. I think it's fair, and I don't think you can treat these people like they're potatoes, bags, but they're honest, honest, and educated people. The fact that they are members of the Croatian Democratic Community is our pride, and we will keep these people in our party in the way that we know best and we can. This is not the task of you from the SDP, I am talking about ours, there have been our coalition partners, I have made fun of everyone who has done their job with honor and integrity thanks, and the proof of this quality of work is the signing of an access contract for Croatia on December 9th, and you colleagues and fellow MPs can mock each other, you can disrespect it, I consider it a fair and well-worked job and will talk about it by our citizens, those who follow and who will follow your work. For what you called rationalization, I consider it politics, because you are in a way that you have introduced these laws into an emergency procedure, without having explained it in a fair and quality manner, without giving us the materials, without the representatives being prepared to work here in the Croatian Parliament, you have done something that you think will pass overnight. I am telling you from this place as a representative that you will have problems with such bill proposals because we are not 47 HDZ representatives and coalitions with our other MPs here openly and clearly recommend we will be a constructive opposition. So today we were acting on the Legislative Committee, from which we were supposed to be expelled, because we had to get out, because we feel that such behaviour, you were too nervous, impatient and you couldn't wait to come here to the Croatian Parliament, so we are the representatives that I consider culturally treated had to leave my work body, your workplace, because at the moment we felt like we were in some sort of penitentiary room where someone with heights to treat us. Forget it. We were elected by our constituents, chosen by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and as an opposition we are responsible and proudly and honorably doing our job. For these laws that you have proposed I believe that there will be no longevity, and Mr. Bauk I am sure after 15 January you will find yourself back here with an explanation of the amendments and the addition of these laws, and whether it is good to judge the public and judge those people with whom you have proposed the law may have destroyed someone's lives, so give a little thought about it, because I predict you if this is how you started to run the Croatian Parliament today, how you presented yourself you will not experience the three years you had but much, much less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u216	Thank you very much. The following entry was made for the word by the esteemed representative, and the correction, the next one was by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u217	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I think we can say right away that it's not about any cuts in financial expenditure, it's about the increase. What are the arguments for this attitude? The arguments are contained in the following, namely it is quite clear that the directors who are here today will be replaced by the assistant ministers. You won't be able to get them out of work because in that case it would probably have happened when you illegally kicked out 3.5 thousand police officers and some other employees who were later sued, so the next government, the HDZ, had to return them to work, pay back the damages, etc. The same would happen now in this case. So you're neglecting the fact that you won't be able to get the principals out of work just like that. That you will have to provide them with jobs in the system according to their professional preparation. Therefore, when you say that you will save 25 million, you deceive the public. You do not reduce government officials either, you increase government officials, you increase those who come for the political key, and you replace those who came for the professional key, i.e. the public tender with no falsified competitions such as this here dares to speak so facelessly to counterpart Bernardic. Because if he owns any knowledge that this is a falsified competition, I ask him to immediately go to the State's Attorney's Office and report to those he considers to have falsified public tenders based on which these directors have come to their jobs. As part of the programme already discussed by counterpart Stier, which concerned the effectiveness and improvement of the work of the state administration in a way that it is professionalised and freed from political influence and political burden. So, one step forward in this sense, the truth does not exist, nor does parallel gain, which would oblige us to do so, but there were directives that clearly stated that such work should be done and for this we have received support from both the international European institutions and the European Commission. So we are going back a step, these people who came in this way, who came in the process followed by the European Commission, we now want to resolve them, we want to remove them from their positions in the way that this law prescribed by any counterfeiting and place similar political people who, of course, will manage those institutions exclusively, which we hoped we had professionalized because it did happen. So this is one huge step back which is also a greater burden on the budget. And that's what you'll see when we talk about the budget, when we get the budget, it'll be clear that there won't be a reduction in that part because there can't be a reduction. My colleague Bauk says 25 million kunas will cut salary spending. Not a colleague, count all those directors you need to secure jobs according to their professional preparation. So, the high-level expert prepares are all of them, and count on all the new expenditures you get by setting up similar staff, so ministerial assistants, who usually get paid to the state secretary level, and you reward the deputy ministers with even higher salaries than the state secretaries do today. Thus, there will be no reduction or savings. This is a fact that the Croatian public needs to know, and will be quite clearly seen from the budget that we will discuss in the next period, so for the next 2012 year. So this step backwards that we're doing this way I think it'll only bring bad and it's already corrected and number. Someone mentioned the number of 80 ministerial assistants to replace the directors, however, counterpart Bauk said in his performance 90. So during this debate in an hour, an hour and a half, the number has already jumped from 80 to 90. Probably the moment new ministries are formed, when needs are seen, they will probably jump to as many as there have been so many directors that these ministries could work at all and that these administrations could function. Therefore, it is a double number of officials and it is an increase in funds that will need to be allocated for both their salaries and all that belongs to them. Furthermore, I think it is already clear here that the fact that the number of ministries is increasing to 20 speaks for itself enough. Of course, it's about wanting to satisfy all the appetites of coalition members. No one's right to question you. You just can't explain it the way you explain it. This is not about a more efficient state administration, or more efficient ministries, but about an increase in the number of ministries based on your political agreement, based on the distribution of functions, based on what you signed in your coalition contract, and that is why you increase the number of ministries. Of course this will result in an increase in the cost of the state, by increasing the cost of the ministries. Well, of course they have to sit somewhere, somewhere some people have to get a job to do business with these ministries. And of course it's about the distribution of the chair and say it loud and clear. No one is denying you this right, but don't hide that with these moves that will actually make the state administration cheaper, or that the ministries will be more efficient, etc., that you will achieve greater efficiency. You will not achieve more efficiency, you will achieve satisfaction with political appetites and that is a fact. However, now that my colleague Mimica has returned since he explained on behalf of the club, I would be interested in this Committee on European Affairs, which is being formed in the government. What's this about? In my opinion, it seems to me to be some supervisory body that should be the supervisory body of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Foreign and European Affairs. Is that the control of my colleague Pusic? You may not believe them, and then you're setting up a European Affairs Committee in the government, but what is it? Obviously, it's a parallel body. We think it's completely unnecessary. Because if there is a Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, then we don't see any reason why there's some kind of European Affairs Office in the government. So I guess it's really some kind of mutual control within your coalition, obviously it's about trust inside of you. I think it's enough to say this and I think that already fellows in other aspects of these amendments to the Law said, but it doesn't really need to hide behind some formations that don't correspond to the truth like the formation of a 25 million-dollar savings or that it will be more efficient to work the ministries, in this way quite certain that it's not true and that it doesn't correspond to the fact that it does.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u218	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament expired in 19 and 35 for the application for a 10-minute debate, so individual debate of MPs. The following word has been signed up for the esteemed representative, Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, most of it's been said extensively, I'll speak very briefly. So, this set of laws that we are now discussing governing the structure of the state administration and the government, of course, is the right of any political option that has a parliamentary majority to arrange resolutions as it thinks it will implement all its pre-election promises in the most effective way, but also, as I said, I would not say appetites that may sound harsh, ambitions that people want to enter the executive power to confirm themselves and to implement what they politically advocate. Here we see someone saying they're sharing armchairs, but now I see they're no longer sharing chairs but chairs because the chairs can no longer be seen as the number of ministries that the armchairs can no longer fit in these rows, so they've found a little less chairs to make everyone stop. What I think is really a shame and that we are headed in a good way to depolitize the state administration, after all, fellow Stier said that there is no European acquis, it is precisely no gain but a trend is and a good practice is European to depolitize the state administration. In that sense, we are also in compliance with the criteria, although it was not a hard legal gain, but we ourselves said that the way in which we will meet the standard and depolitize the state administration is also this Law that we have passed, and we have passed a law whereby the assistant ministers are not state officials, but they are professional civil servants who are named by the basis of a public tender. I would say to my colleagues Bernardiæ, he is gone and I am sorry, he is too young to label people so easily, I can say at the very least that it was very rude about counterfeited competitions, I personally found myself offended, and therefore I think you should have warned him because I spent a number of colleagues and public tenders, if someone suspects that they were falsified, that there were abuses of position and authority, then it should be reported to the competent authority that will investigate it and not so easily label it. Let's see now how democratically backward it is, so far under the current legislation of appointed officials there were 16 ministers and 60 state secretaries, these are the meanings of 76 political appointments. According to the law, 20 ministers, 20 deputies and 80 ministerial assistants are proposed, so it is 120 political appointments, so it is completely contrary to the suggestions of both the World Bank and the European Union, and ultimately it is not as important that this suggestion is as important as we have promised citizens further democratisation, depolitisation and, above all, the professionalisation of the state administration to the most complex jobs in the state administration. And then this should be made clear to Croatian citizens that you wanted to remove the 153 directors of the administration appointed by the basis of the public tender, the choice was made by the Croatian government. I must say that some of the people who are in these public procurements have been elected some ministerial assistants appointed political assistant ministers, say from the SDP government and so much for these political elections, you certainly know where they are. So, we've increased the political appointments to 120, we've raised the salaries to the deputies so far, the new deputy ministers, 20 more than they've had until now, the state secretaries we've heard so much about, all of those 80 assistants will have as much pay as there have been 60 state secretaries, you'll bring 20 more high salaries to the state administration, and by the way, those 153 elected directors in a public tender will have to keep on the state administration system for the reasons that state officials and under the State Service Act have the right to do so. Therefore, Croatian citizens must clearly know that since the law enters into force tomorrow, new 80 people with government salaries will be brought into the administration, along with all these existing four ministers and 20 deputy ministers, therefore we will see through the budget but savings from these 25 million kunas that are spoken of absolutely will not and cannot be. And one more thing, I ask so many speeches that they are the basis of these public competitions, that they are not really depolitical because they were, though, public competitions, but they were chosen by the Croatian government. And I'm asking you now what less political it will be when a competition is opened for any employee in the ministry and who will make the choice, then a minister in the ministry. And who's the minister if not the political person who's a member of the government like the government was the body that chose it. So there's no speech about saving, there's talk about what's legitimately the right of every political majority and every new government to set up a government and state exactly as it thinks it's going to implement its programme most effectively, but let's not talk about savings, let's not talk about any democratic progress when it's actually about increasing costs and it's about one unprecedented democratic backdrop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u220	We have one replica, Honored Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's colleague Lovrin described all the important details of this bill, and I think it was clear that there will be no increase. I would just like to complement that these 20 new ministries certainly lack one more to ensure that the plan offered to Croatian citizens is complete, plan 21 would then be complete. With 21 ministers, with 21 ministries, that would be what they were talking about in the election campaign. I believe that many people are concerned and caught in such a way that this extraordinary session should be the subject of passing such laws that do not go towards all those aspirations that we have made for the European democratic system to function in the Republic of Croatia. It is certainly evident that the anxiety and concern of those people who remained in the ministries, who were from the former government, are some of the quality that members and SDP were and were never touched but were doing their job as required by the profession of them, and I am sure that so many exist in these new directors who came as non-partisan and that they all made one whole of the improvements in work and progress in the Republic of Croatia. So I think there's another ministry missing and it should be formed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u222	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we have exhausted the debate on all five draft laws that we have discussed together, and we are now moving to vote on each of the laws. I don't think we need to determine the quorum, it's visible with a simple eye or that the balcony still confirms my assessment. 109 MPs are present at the Croatian Parliament. We're going to vote. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of this law require most of all representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Before the vote, we have an amendment to the club that becomes an integral part of the proposal. Therefore, we do not decide the amendment individually. He was on benches, he became an integral part of the proposal, and in the context of the debate, you could discuss the amendment. Wait a minute, sir. You reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u224	Mr. Chairman, we have no intention of stalling, but it is in my interest that what we declare is in accordance with the law. Mr. Mimica, who spoke on behalf of the promoter, did not say he accepted the amendments. And that this would all go according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. But he didn't say it in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u225	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u226	Okay, okay. You will invent new rules in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u227	Your Honor, we have heard your objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. We do not respect that observation because the applicant has also made an amendment in the context of the proposal and the reasons for the proposal. So it can't be an amendment unless it accepts it. ... You have the democratic right to object. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm the one who answered your question. I propose that, by raising our hands, we make a statement about the bill and the amendment that has become an integral part of the proposal itself. Comrade Shuker, we discussed everything we needed to discuss. Who is for the Final Proposal of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Let's just add up the votes a little bit more. Against? The abstentions? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes 81 have passed the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia with 21 votes against and 8 abstentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u608	Therefore, in accordance with Article 229 of the Treaty on the Functioning I suggest that the Rules of Procedure be held in a united debate on two points of the agenda. So one is six. Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. Five-seven. Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 6 Do you agree or do you think you should vote on it? Thank you. I therefore find that we have decided to bring together the debate on these points of the agenda, so we are going into debate. They are proposed by SDP, HNS, IDS and HSU representatives. The representatives’ clubs submitted draft laws pursuant to Article 84. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 129 and 159. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received a proposal for action on the benches. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the motions made by the proposer to make legislative proposals according to the urgent procedure and in accordance with Article 159. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate in view of Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does? Mr. Zvonimir Mršić, the representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u609	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to state that the Committee on Legislatives has submitted an amendment to both of these laws and that the proposer accepts the amendments to the Committee on Legislatives. And before I say a few words about our own bill, I would like to establish a few facts stemming from the electoral legislation relating to the selection of bodies in units of local self-government in this case directly elected municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb. Therefore, Article 2. The Law on Elections says that municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb are elected in a direct vote in secret to the term of office of 4 years, and municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb have deputies who are elected together both in the same way and in the same procedure. So the election elects the mayor, the mayor and the mayor, and the deputies are elected simultaneously in the same way and in the same procedure. This Regulation shall enter The Law on Local Self-Government says that the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor, in the event of prevention or absence in the exercise of office, replaces one of the deputies he appoints in accordance with the statutes of the local self-government unit. Now what do we propose? We propose, as you know, especially the MPs who were here in 2007 in that stampede we had when we changed 24 laws on local self-government in one evening, and when we had amendments to all the 24 laws that we had here from this pay phone, there were some insufficiently precise provisions to agree then before the parliamentary elections that we would have a direct election of mayors even though it was only two years from now. So in the article of the Law on Local and Regional Administration in Article 8, we added Article 40a, which states that if the termination of the term of office of the municipal mayor, mayor, or mayor, was held in the calendar year in which the regular elections were held, and that the early elections for the municipal mayor, mayor, or mayor, would not be held in that unit, but would be held until the end of the term of office by the mayor. So today we have in such a law a definition that in 6 months before the election if for any reason 6 months, 5.5... Let me, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, a month doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. Some time before the election, if for any reason the head man of the unit of local, regional (regional) self-government has resigned from the local elections will not be held. We think it's not fair and it's not good, and we need to establish criteria where early local elections will not be held, because there has to be a reason, so it can't be a whim, or it can't simply be within a party or coalition surplus to prepare a man to perform in local elections. We therefore propose our law that only if the head of the unit of local self-government is appointed or elected to incompatible duty, so there must be a reason, and we suggest that it be an incompatible duty, then no early elections will be held. So that's something to do with it. Be patient, fellow Lovrin. So we're looking for and we're proposing to determine the reason when someone can resign, not that they've made some insubordination, so now we want to put it away six months before the election, so we're going to show someone else there so that someone else has more success. So it's something that I think is essential to this law, the sole and exclusive appointment of incompatible duty. And secondly, here we discussed it, we already had a debate about whether it's six months, whether it's four and a half months, whether it's four months and three weeks at 5 months, or whether it's seven months, or if it's 12 months, or if it's half a term. So we can discuss how much it is before the elections themselves when there should be no early elections. The proposal of the SDP, HNS, IDS and HSU parties is that this is after half of the mandate, so the candidate must perform half of the term of office as head of the local self-government unit, then only if he is elected or appointed to a function that is incompatible, so which, according to the Law of Conflict of Interest, is considered incompatible with the duties, he is entitled to resign, which deputy will continue to carry out the mandate until the end so that early elections do not take place. We think it's an improvement in this law, and we think that this first and foremost introduces a criterion into an article that was absolutely undefined, and this article that we're changing was bad, we're just improving it, it's just not becoming perfect. Unfortunately, there was no will in the past two mandates to regulate legislation relating to local self-government, and you remember how many times I've been from this booth we appeal to solve, we have 35 laws, we're going to arrange local self-government. Today we have laws that are in conflict with each other, we have laws that don't solve a whole series of issues like the relationship between the representative body and the directly elected leaders, we have a law that theoretically replaces them, and in practice, the inexplicable leaders of the local self-government units, so we have laws that are unarranged, and they're unarranged among other things because we've brought them by stampede in one evening. Finally, we have a whole series of examples both in Europe and in America where there is either another form of compatibility, i.e. incompatibility of duty, for example in France you can be mayor and minister, or minister and mayor, or you have a situation in America or elsewhere where... in America, so if the president of the state kills the American president on the first day after the election, his job will be done by the end of the term, even more so if they kill him, then Congress and the Senate determine someone to do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u610	Please. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u611	So we propose that this absolutely unarranged law, a law that allows it to be manipulated because this written text of Article 40a is fully adapted to manipulation in the year preceding the elections, is fully laid down, and that means half of the term of office and is replaced by the man who, or the person who was together on the ballot, who was elected together and who, in the direct and secret elections, was given the term of office of citizens. So I'm calling. What? ... If you've read the bill, then, amendment. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u612	Please, but it is not intended for the Rules of Procedure to be discussed with the speaker. I'm asking you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u613	So if you read the amendment that was accepted and became a bill, then you could see that where there are two deputies, a person or a leader who resigns determines which of the deputies will change it by the end of the term of office. Thank you very much, and I invite you to support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u614	We have multiple corrections of incorrect allegations. The first hand was raised by Mr. Representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u615	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Here we are now listening, correcting the part that the MP was talking about the whims means local leaders who choose. I say it's wrong, so this is the hihr of the current coalition that changes the law on behalf of them that she hasn't asked about, and she's trying to sort of suggest what would be appropriate for the next period and how to choose local leaders. I don't think there's anything more to add to this than I said it means that this is still the hierarchy of the current coalition, which is now the majority in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u616	Thank you. Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u617	... Croatian Parliament. [[Specially enabled.]] So it is incorrect that Mršić said the non-repealing election in the year in which the elections, for the simple reason that the provision is incorporated because it is previously clearly said that the local elections are on the third Sunday of May, and it is logical that if the head of the unit of local self-government departs in that year, that it is stupid to do the cost and conduct elections in two, three months, and all your reasoning is incorrect because you simply did not tell this High House and the Croatian public the truth, you are changing this law so that you could appoint a minister, but you cannot throw democracy under the feet in such a way. You just don't have a right to do that. So tell me, we need this to appoint a minister, so do it, but it would be best if it were explained by a man who fought so hard for the rights of the leaders in local self-government, and I think colleague Mršić thinks that all his discussions that were great about local self-government today have been thrown under your feet.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u618	Thank you. I'll thank you when your time is up. It's okay, it's okay. Mr. Representative Josip Djakic, correction of the incorrect quote also.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u619	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's incorrect that this is a better definition that defined the exact time after two years and that it can then be done to be the deputy who's going to be named by the one who's leaving. This is absolutely incorrect that it is a better definition, given that it does not comply with the European Charter which clearly states what local self-government is and what it should look like. In the European Charter, it clearly states that everything that is brought into the interest or an assessment of the interest must be consistent with them and you have not met them, nor have you asked them, nor the alliance of municipalities, nor the alliance of cities, nor the alliance of counties, is the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u620	Thank you. Madam representative of the Sun's Head, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u621	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I'm going to correct what my colleague said, we've already talked about it on the Committee, or tried it, and he's incorrectly said that we're improving the Law because this one was bad and that it's going to arrange the local self-government because the laws were passed in the stampede, we're just witnessing the stampede that's happening this evening, we're already going into the night. My colleague Mršić, this is in the least said suspension of the will of citizens, this is a suspension of democracy, this is a blow to democracy, and as an emperor someone will say I'm setting you up now for my deputy, and you will inherit me. So, it's invisible, and I guess no one's gonna wait for someone to get killed like you said, and that contained all the absurdity of this argument that was finally funny to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u622	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go. Then he's Mr. Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u623	Mr Mršić incorrectly said that the existing law did not define the moment when elections are held in the calendar year because of the economic and purpose of holding elections. You have wrapped up in the cellophane something you want to impose, two years of mandates are on your proposal and it is about your proposal to question the purpose of unnecessary elections and the general election for local officials, mayors, mayors and mayors that the fundamental right of direct elections under the law we made in 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u624	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic on behalf of the HDSSB Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u625	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, I will once again congratulate the elected president, vice-presidents of the Parliament, and I will also wish the new government, the new prime minister and probably the new Prime Minister successful work and the entire government, because Croatia is full of misery, poverty, centralised state, robbed state, etc. But if the morning is known, and this day is one morning of the new government, then that path will be thorny and there will be a road between force and... What to say about these laws proposed by the future government or the Kukuriku coalition that are already being amended. If it wasn't sad, it'd be funny. On the other hand, by respecting my colleague, Mršić, I absolutely trust him today, because if this were proposed by the HDZ Club, then the then Committee on Local Self-Government, Regional and Arealy would have opposed this proposal. Because here, let's be open about the Komadin Law, and it's a few more names that have been directly elected in the local elections, and this is how it's going to be a fraud for all those voters. And that's inadmissible. Therefore, the HDSSB will request an assessment of the constitutionality of these two laws. This wasn't done in ancient Rome in this way, Caligula named a horse as Senator Mr. Grouchy. The term of office in the Constitution and the Law does not give the mayor, the mayor, that after two years he says I will now be a minister, perhaps agriculture, perhaps I do not know what, construction, etc., I will appoint my deputy only one. It is only right that new elections are held in these units of local self-government under existing laws and under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and under the Law on direct elections. Because it's only fair, it's the only thing that's not a voter scam. I wish you good luck in the work of the Croatian Government, but don't form a government in this way because it's not good and it's not a good guideline for the citizens. Don't come out like a bunch of co-workers, we're moving on, so here's where we came from. Here in your explanation, it doesn't say, among other things, which body, who will determine this deputy. Now in case of illness etc., in case the mayor or mayor is not going to open the exhibition he appoints his deputy you know very well. But you can't appoint a deputy for two years to save 5.6 million kuna in Rijeka, in the Primorje-Gorski County. Maybe to save themselves because after the election, it collected over 50% of the heat. Maybe the Kukurik coalition should have done it before the election. Then maybe the result in the river would be smaller. On the other hand, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which examines the proposal for working bodies in Article 138 further states that, above all, the parent body must discuss one such law. These are among other things organic laws. If the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, and I don't see here now or the Association of Cities, the units of the Republic of Croatia's municipalities have submitted their proposal. I don't see this signature by Private Obersnel that he submitted the proposal and delivered the interpretation of these scandalous laws, the Comadin of the laws that lead Croatia and, above all, the local self-government into a complete anarchy. I believed that one of the first laws this Croatian Parliament will pass, and it is related to local self-government and regional self-government will be the Law on fiscal decentralisation, the Law on the financing of local self-government units where that shameful ratio of 92% of all tax revenues in the state, and 8% to local self-government units will immediately change. But there's no sign. That's what this coalition hasn't talked about yet, and I know for sure. The units of local self-government and regional self-government, Mr. Mr. Gristle, cannot tolerate such bad and scandalous laws. And since it is already extremely late, we, as a HDSSB club, have opposed the urgent adoption of laws because these laws affect first and foremost those directly elected, those who chose these people directly and then let's not be surprised that in each election the number of those who went to the elections. I admire these over 60% of the people in Croatia who went to this election. But it is a sign to all of us that almost 40% of people are disappointed in Croatian politics and Croatian politicians. He's probably doing laws like this. And I wish this law had been proposed in the last term of HDZ, Mr. Mršić, and I personally am against it now. And that's the difference. I'm against it now. This is a scandal. This is a scandal because it raises direct elections for both the mayor and the mayor. If someone wants to be the director of a public firm, if they want to be a minister then regardless of the price and if it is not in the calendar year when regular elections are held let the resignation and let the political option go to new elections. Not just her, but everyone who's interested. There's one more question here. I'd like someone to answer that. Maybe a new prime minister? Whether there are other people in this Kukurik coalition who are not chiefs and are not mayors and who can be elected ministers, as directors of public enterprises, will save money in urban and county budgets. I therefore urge Mr. Komadina and a few others to endure the calendar year when direct elections are held or that the new Government of the Republic of Croatia shall call elections in those units of local self-government. Because everything else is a force of democracy. Good luck to you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u626	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u627	That this coalition certainly won't be a more correct partner than I am, but the truth is, we told the people we won't adapt to the laws. That's what we said. I also see that no one in the coalition is too happy about such a proposal. I don't want to defend indefensibly, maybe I'm wrong, maybe I should vote yes, but with a big, big, big reserve. I will not compare it like Vinkovic did with Caligula, with his horse. There's no Shex here. He knows what that horse's name was. But this Vinkovic sentence will simply be remembered. Adjusting electoral, procedural, I don't know what rules anyone's sure not good at. That such a solution is made for that future assembly or for that future mayor's choice ok. Everything would be okay. This is how we went to the election by one rule, and by the election we're writing out some other ones that weren't talked about before. It all stands, what was said a moment ago. The mayors are no longer the exponents of the executive government, the mayors are no longer the exponents of the state administration. The mayor no longer confirms the president of the state when he gave that positive or negative opinion. They are alleged to be so expressed by officials of local self-government or citizens anyway. As a rule, these same mayors act in far more congested possibilities than the vast majority of Croatian mayors, and therefore there is a problem with this decentralisation, and it will likely have to come to a relatively close turn. On this side, this Law would make sense, but not that it happens for this one, but for the future assembly of the Parliament or for the future assembly of some executive authority. I personally think and I will say quite frankly that all those who have executive functions in the municipalities, in the cities, in the counties should not also be parliamentary representatives. I know a lot of people are gonna jump on it, but that would make me know it's fair. But we have the law and the law that mayors, mayors, mayors are also elected representatives of both IDS and SDP and HDZ and HDSSB and certainly other political options. That's where we agreed. We've reached consensus and that's how things are set up. Well, that's exactly what Vinkovic says. Who does the law go to meet? It goes obviously to tell one future minister. It's justice to the elections. It's just the cost. It's all okay. but the problem is that the mayors were directly elected, and if some knew about such a law that would be passed I'm sure this House would count at least 20 mayors and within this House we'd have one parallel so I'll call it the county home. And that's just as true as she yells at Anna. I wish I was wrong, I wish time would deny me, I wish this law was a perspective law, that there was one future, but I doubt it could be maintained for a long time. Let's not simply work from the House of Representatives to the future county home, if we had to form it parallelly, I personally wouldn't mind, I wouldn't mind, if we had a county home with 40 MPs, and to reduce the House of Representatives to, say, 100 or 110 MPs. What? I didn't hear. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u628	Please, if you're on the right all the time shouting and throwing. Excuse me, Mr. Representative, please, just to interrupt you, toss you around all the time, and you're the only one throwing away, then you've got some intention to do that. I'm asking you to stop. Thank you. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u629	The solution would also be a direct selection of representatives as well as mayors, mayors, mayors. I don't know if that's gonna happen. Someone mentioned earlier that they could be mayors in France. We have probably that Italian, which is probably exactly what one mayor can never do until this minister also loses the local elections I suppose. In Italy, we have another model, so ministers can be representatives. Of course I'm judging both the first and the second and I'm not holding it well and I'm absolutely rejecting it. But time will show, gentlemen, whether this is a proposed solution to the perspective solution. I signed this proposal, but to be honest, I think we did an experiment that time won't confirm.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u630	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić on behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourist-Stranka Work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u631	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. There are several reasons why the Croatian Labour Party cannot accept this kind of law. This isn't a confectionary law. You can't buy a law like that in a store. This is the law that was made according to measure. One, two, three, four men, and I don't know how many. And there is now, but in any case, it's done according to measure, and it's clear to everyone. I don't think we should prove it. The second reason is Article 102. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament on what the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government is doing, it makes it perfectly clear that it is also considering proposals for this type of law. The law isn't confectious, but then it's not consistent. There is no reason to write in it that half of the term of office or two years before the regular elections will not be held, but the deputy will jump into office as mayor and chief, they could write nicely for a year and 5 months. So we know why we're doing this law, and we know it won't last the next local election, there's no reason for it to endure this law. There are still a few arguments that prove that this law was made in haste, in haste, thoughtless, and that the reaction to the situation that could actually have been predicted could have been arranged in some other way. It's clear what happens if there's one deputy. What happens if there are two deputies? It's not quite clear. Under the current law, if the mayor or mayor is prevented for this and that reason, because of the disease, for what reason, he appoints one of his deputies to replace him. But they are replacing him. He's alive, he's in office, and they're the deputies of that man, those functions. In this situation where this mayor, the mayor, the mayor, is leaving for an incompatible post, means he goes to parliament or to the government or to the director of a state-owned company, whom is the deputy being replaced? He replaced it almost, he became President of the U.S. Johnson. He became president, he's no longer a deputy. So the logic of the substitution here is actually perfectly vague and nonexistent. What's the deputy question? So the one on which the master turns his finger. It is something that should not happen in Croatian laws. I can, as head of local self-government, determine that someone at work is replacing me for a short time. But let me say, I'm going, I'm going, and I'm not coming back, and you're coming to my place. No one has the right to do that. Citizens voted for the team, for the team that's headed by that one man who's leaving. When that man leaves, then he's gonna have to hold the election. When the deputy leaves, there's no need to hold the election, because people voted for the team headed by that leader, right? But if that first man goes away then the whole structure doesn't really make much sense anymore. In addition to what happens in a situation where one mayor goes to the minister, his deputy goes to the parliamentary representative, and the other is trampled by a tram if there is a tram in that town. The law says we won't do the election, we won't do the election for two years from the regular election, no matter what happens, we don't have anyone there anymore. Aren't we going to make the election then? I think the law is written recklessly, quickly and to cover one situation that can be covered legally but requires a little effort and some inconvenience. So he suggested to the Proposer that he might prefer to catch up with that effort and a little awkwardness. This is what the Croatian Labour Club can't vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u632	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u633	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. We are facing a united debate on two laws that have arrived in the procedure of emergency procedure for the Croatian Democratic Community club by an incredibly urgent procedure because we have had so much time to see nothing but the possible title of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Law amending the Law on Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb. If we're... to notice so far all clubs except the SDP club have criticised this final bill and even one club that is a component of your winner of the Kukuriku coalition. [[You don't understand.]] Mr. Cain said nothing to do with what's written in here doesn't add up, but he signed it. So for the first time in the history of Croatian democracy, we have that someone behind this speaker disagrees on the proposal for a final law that is before us, but says he signed it. It's very interesting and it's a very nice message for voters who have given support to your coalition. For us today, what you have proposed in the Croatian Parliament is a direct blow to democracy, to the will of voters, to freedom, to the direct elections for which you have also busted here in the Croatian Parliament that they are good, that for the first time the head of the local administration and self-government trust that the citizens of the voters directly choose it. You are now giving the opportunity to represent the deputy mayor for two years as deputy mayor. So are you sure the voters in the election just gave the deputy trust? The deputy may be one of the coalition partners of some of the stronger parties, so perhaps the number 1 voters on the list of those candidates who was directly elected have just voted in favour of the list and the candidate. It should be recalled that we have introduced deputy mayors on the lists because we have abolished the headships and they serve not only as a substitute in extraordinary situations that elections are not held in the calendar year when regular elections are to be held but also serve as a replacement for the headship and as assistance to local administration and self-government leaders, not only as extraordinary deputies. I know there are tips and things like that, but deputies need to do something when the mayor is not directly, when the mayor is not elected to the Croatian Parliament. I agree, maybe it's weird, and with the colleagues who used to say here, you're the law, and you don't have to wrap this up too much in a cellophane, so you can bring some of your mayors, for example. Mr. Komadino and perhaps also brought Mrs. Lovric to the Croatian Parliament. And do not deceive the Croatian public, do not deceive the free will of voters, do not violate the Croatian Constitution and do not question what is unquestionable, and it is unquestionably unquestionable that the free will of the voters directly elected is the will for the candidate to whom voters directly gave their vote. Never forget that and do not question what should be for those citizens in the units of local administration and self-government for them very important and important. After the elections you have now questioned that some candidates must be placed in the Croatian Parliament, so that one such important law did not even give a wider debate, you did not give units of local administration and self-government to discuss it. You have this legal expert who deals with law schools in this area, so they're not exactly something special to advocate that these law schools, and legal clinics and institutes say something about it. Is that democracy for you? For us, this is the bottom of democracy. You questioned the essence of the local elections and the essence of the credibility of candidates who were first elected in the history of Croatia by law in 2007 to their honorary duties. It would be serious of you gentlemen for the Kukuriku coalition to think three times about what you suggested and say that one mayor who has three may have even three deputies, determine which deputy would be best to replace him, if nothing asks voters who have put their trust in him. I think it's embarrassing, and I think it would be wise to pull this out of the process and think it's very dangerous to play directly with democracy in this way. The Croatian Democratic Community club with determination rejects such an amazing bill that you have brought to the Croatian Parliament by emergency procedure. It's embarrassing and I'm asking you to reconsider what you're doing. This really doesn't make sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u634	Thank you, too. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u635	So here I am correcting an incorrect quote by Mr. Salapic who said this was the first time that someone disagreed with their opinion as Mr. Cain disagrees who is speaking against this law and will vote for it. So I just remind myself of the case of Mr. Lucic, President of Parliament Bebić, who said it was a common case in politics that many disagree with their own opinion, and here there are a lot of those. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u636	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to the individual. Proposer's representative, Mr. Mršić, come in. Here you go, Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u637	Thank you very much. Here is why I would only ask if we can return to the area of arguments, not to the area of emotion or the shouting of political parols because the campaign is over and four years we have the ruling majority who has responsibility for the Republic of Croatia and we have an opposition that has legitimate right to point out what it thinks is, but also in this apparition we call, we plead to fight with arguments. First of all... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u638	The replica can't, the promoter has a word. It can't be a replica. ... /The noise in the hall./... Please. Well, you can't now. Here you go, Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u639	First of all, I have to say that I remained crushed when my colleague Vinkovic compared the deputies to the horses, so when he said that Caligula had named a horse alluding to when the head of the local self-government unit appointed one who would perform his duty instead, that it was a de facto horse. So I have to.....the noise in the hall.... Please. I must say that my deputies are not horses, that my deputies are not horses, that my deputies have been with me on the list, and I have quoted a law that says that deputies are elected together, at the same time in the direct elections by secret vote, that the deputy mayors, mayors and mayors have been elected directly, at the same time in secret elections with full term for four years. What are you so nervous about? .../Intruder President, please! Look. You do it all the time. At the first constitutive session, you throw it away. Please! We'll change that practice. We're going to change that practice, but I'm asking you to participate in it, not to lead it to hell. Don't do that. Thank you. Can we go on? Save your strength. Yeah. ... These and such directly elected deputies shall, in a secret vote under Article 43, be replaced by the mayor, mayor and mayor in the event of a long absence not at the opening of the exhibition. [[The speakers speak out loud, you can't hear.]] In case of long absence or prevention. Longer absence may be a day, and longer absence may be four years Yeah, obviously the arguments don't have the strength here, but we're going to vote the way it is. [[Intruder President: Please!]] So I don't know what took you longer. ... Here's to really seeing that there's no point in debate. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here, let me just give the answers. So, in case the mayor goes on duty, that's what I think Mr. Vuljanic was talking about. The mayor goes on some kind of duty, the deputy goes on some other duty, and the other deputy, who in that case will act as mayor of the run-in tram, goes on election, according to this law, according to this bill. Please, if you want to listen, if you don't have the right to make noise. Furthermore, here you said that the mayors, the deputy mayors, were created after the direct election of the mayor which is not true. And when they were chieftains, we had two deputy mayors. So as far as this is concerned, nothing has changed, and this law is not for Mrs. Lovric, though it is. ... No, no. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] You said it was because of the lady, so please. Therefore, it remains in force for the incompatibility of the office of mayors and deputies. [[/Intruder President: Representative, but now you're talking and now you want to. Please don't discuss each other. Please.]] It remains in force for the incompatibility of the mayor and MPs, although I do not understand why you are still so afraid of Mrs Lovric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u640	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u641	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Mr. Mršić is here in this speech that I did not mention, perhaps and accidentally offended these deputies, because I did not say for all those who were chosen to be horses, but rather the way this Law is proposed and the non-confirmation of the system of those who will appoint a deputy reminds of the old Rome and Caligula. Just as you write the laws, maybe Rome could be during Nero, so read the good article 40. Law on local self-government. Get into law writing and propose laws. This is a scandal, Mr. Thinman. The scandal and the rain and the spit for those four years when you were chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government where you fought for local self-government, and with this proposal you spit on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u642	Thank you. Representative Dragutin Lesar, please. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u643	Mršić, you said that under the existing law, deputies were replacing the absent mayor, mayor or mayor of the municipality and brought this into contact with this bill. You simply misquoted that provision, and in fact you quoted it in favour of damage to the bill because when the mayor, mayor or mayor accepts incompatible duty with it they are not absent. They have to resign and it's not about replacing the absent man. He's no longer in that position. He's gone. So, if what you just said you didn't say, maybe it could still go away. But now you've actually buried the bill because you're saying it's replacing the person who resigned, not that he's absent at the horse show.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u644	I don't know if I should say thank you. But we're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u645	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Personally, I'm going to state a few reasons why I don't think this law should be accepted. I won't accept it. I'll be against it as my colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Union. The first and basic reason is because we are obviously discussing this proposal on certain assumptions and we have not heard from the promoters what we are changing this Law in the first place since the local elections are the third Sunday of the fifth month of 2013. So we still have a full year and six days until then that's six months, so let's discuss it and see if this is good or if this isn't good. So we haven't heard why we're changing this law. But since clearly certain media assumptions already exist and we have heard and read these days that there are candidates for some new functions. Then I guess this law is in the service of those individuals. And there are laws that are passed for individuals. However, we are now in the process of changing the law that applied to nearly five hundred local leaders, their deputies, and now we are putting them in the service of a few who wanted to become at a time when it is possible and more than they have been so far. I think it's a clean suspension of democracy. So in the service of a few individuals. Another reason why we should not accept this Law is that we have often listened to on the left hand side that democracy should not have its price. We from the media say and the assumptions that can be heard these days hear that this democracy that we are offered has its price. It costs 5 million kuna, so we adjusted the law to an individual, and the price of that democracy is 5 million kuna. We want to save 5 million kunas, suspend all the values we've had so far, and I repeat fought here for almost 17 years and something more for the direct selection of mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors. And the HDZ government has just made it possible and this system has shown that there are both good and bad sides, and obviously these laws also need certain changes, but not in this way to be worth just some. The third reason I don't think this is a good thing to accept is because this law retroactively gives certain rights. And why, for two years, why don't we talk about two-thirds of the mandate, so that's 16 months. Again, that assumption of yours would fit into this law. But two years is a lot, 24 months of mandate is a lot, it is well-known by the mayors and mayors as much as they can and can in that time, or how they can contribute to the development of local self-government. That's the facts. The next reason is that you have also set out against the European Charter of Local Self-Government. You haven't contacted, you haven't asked for the opinion of the associations that exist, we have a community association, we have an association of cities, we have a county association, I think, I think. the county association, and I think the county association would have something to say on this proposal, because what we're saying with this bill to our colleagues, means that they're acting as mayor and mayor. You as mayors don't matter, so your job can be done by a deputy. Is that a message from this law? One deputy can perform two years' term of office. Shall we agree to that? Or it's a message to the county and county, and on the trail of the story of the regions that we're going to cut them a little bit, since they don't matter. That a deputy assuming I speak, and here he is even in years, because his colleague is here in the Parliament, can do almost a year and six months' term. In the end, I'm just saying, it means once again why you're ordering this bill. You say you're against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u646	Left-hand side, a little quieter?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u647	If you are against the European values prescribed and presented in the European Charter of Local Self-Government, you say that democracy does not matter, it simply does not matter, nor does the procedure of the Constitution matter, and at the same time you open one of Pandora's boxes of all other events that can happen at that local or regional level in the coming time, and it may just be based on these amendments to the law. It is for me who, in this House, am new, who I expected to say one let's say a democracy festival just based on one majority that the Kukuriku coalition has, that we will also do this first breath in a different tone, and that the new Government, under the leadership of the new prime minister, will actually enter that mandate in an appropriate way. This is the worst message for Croatian voters, in this way entering a clean and purely obtained mandate. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u648	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Mr. Representative Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u649	I thank you, Mr. President. I also use the opportunity to congratulate you on your election as president. Here's my colleague, Boric, you said we didn't hear why this law is changing, the suspension of democracy, and most importantly, there was no consultation with the association of municipalities, cities and counties. counterpart Mršić has often called for the European Charter of Local Self-Government, according to its opening section of paragraph 4. The local unit is one of the main foundations of each democratic system. I will also quote my colleague Mršić on the latest amendments to the Law on Elections for Mayors and Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, and we propose to the Government to stop dealing with marginal issues and to finally start dealing with key issues for local self-government, issues that will eliminate the possibility of corruption in local self-government, which will mark the strength of local self-government units, and I call on the Government to extract from the archives the programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted in this House. Now it follows what is important, and it is adopted and should also apply to the Government, and it should respect it, as the Government should respect and apply the Law on ratification of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, where we have established that when preparing and adopting laws relating to local self-government, local self-government must be consulted by representatives of local self-government. Who did you consult, Mr. Snotty?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u650	Thank you. Your time is up. Mr. Representative, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u651	This wasn't done in these three laws, and I don't know except for more municipal economy and funding, which is an important law for local self-government, and we don't need to consult them at all, and if this isn't to be consulted, then what should be consulted at all? Here's your quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u652	Thank you. Second replica, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u653	I'm a colleague of Boric's. ... And you have an answer. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Was there an answer to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u654	No, everything's fine. You go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u655	Okay. Thank you. A fellow Boris, it is true that such a legal proposal when we look into the future is actually a general mess in the local self-government elections. What do the proposings say to voters in local and regional self-government? They say they will elect candidates who are distinguished by name and last name, and in about half a year, a year or how long this same candidate will no longer be held by the role for which most citizens will choose him. So one uncertainty is being introduced, and then the electoral right, the right to vote, which is not to say sacredly becomes an electoral fraud, and this bill is actually a fraud, except that it's anti-constitutional. There are mayors who are mayors in units of regional self-government whose counties are 70, 80,000 inhabitants, and yet there are mayors who sat here in this Assembly, and their cities have 130, 150,000 inhabitants. That's true, but the state's transmission across the county and those funds that go, so the mayor has designated in some sense towards the state so that it's a legal proposal that mayors can't become parliamentary representatives. And we spoke to Mršić when you were already throwing and about the need to establish a home of the region, unfortunately no one accepted him when HDSSB suggested it here. But some other time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u656	Thank you. It's Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u657	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Mršić, I just don't believe what you said here today as a proposal. You as the first fighter for local democracy, you as chairman of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government in the previous assembly of the Parliament, you from which we have received so much instruction as to rule that I simply cannot believe that you are, precisely, the legislator of this law. I wouldn't be surprised if they were your new colleagues, I wouldn't be surprised because I wouldn't know what they're thinking, but if you'd accepted it to suggest it's really precedent. At the first extraordinary session of the first day of the Constitution of the Croatian Parliament, it is a precedent for us to make a quick proposal to amend the law in one article, in a quickly concluded article. Something like you wrote on your knees. Why do I say that? Because the Legislative Committee had to amend it because you forgot at that speed in that article to determine which of the deputy mayors would change. Not only did you do that, colleague Mršić, I'm surprised, I'm really surprised, and on the left hand side of the last term there were so many people who fought for human rights that I can't believe that this proposal violated the basic human right, the right of Croatian citizens to choose and be elected. You've simply erased from the Constitution the electoral right of citizens, you're... You can turn me off, I'm really loud enough even though I snuck that they'd hear me in the record. [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]] If you'd really taken that right and now I can think of what you've told the citizens who are watching us. Just what a colleague of Greeks said on one show: "if you could tell me everything," I quote, "what we're planning, maybe you wouldn't pick us." Well, Croatian citizens, this is the first day of the new session of the Parliament. We didn't really expect that much self-will from one democratic party. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry that in the explanation that's in 2, 3 sentences, with the proposal of this law, there are no photographs. Photos of people for whom the fundamental law is quickly changed, and this is the Law on the elections of citizens for local government. The colleagues mentioned that the basic principles of the European Charter were not respected, that no one was asked. Well, maybe she was wondering her colleagues because some of the mayors, some of the mayors, started preparing a long time ago, so their deputies got into the SDP a few months ago, and they started training them for their replacements. Are the mayors, are the mayors, are the mayors of the municipalities rulers? Is this the time of the monarchy? Is that an inheritance right to be mayor? So I'll be inherited by someone I want. Perhaps in the future proposal, we will get from you fellow Mršić some kind of suggestion that we will be able to be the deputy mayor of the family. Anything is possible after this proposal of yours, absolutely everything. Either in the end, I end up with one rhetorical question, or are you afraid to go to democratic local elections? You can read that out of this. If for two years now, for nearly two years left, one and a half years until new elections, you give certain persons to name their heirs. That's what you didn't even predict by the bill that they were going to do, but it was somewhere in the air, so today on the Legislator's Committee, you remembered that someone had to do it, so let's do it. Let's get them out of the hat. It's gonna be Hansel, Perica or Gretel. So much for the democracy that we've heard so much about in the last eight years, I fellow Members of this House, and I certainly won't support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u658	... Maybe we'll have this law by midnight. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know what I was gonna say. Here you go, Mr. Ante Kulusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u659	Mr. President, here's my chance to publicly congratulate you on your choice. My colleagues agree with your debate, but I will only say one sentence, but I hope that especially experienced MPs from the Kukurik coalition will not allow it. If what is happening in the House today is this bill if it will be a part of the work of the future government then tell the Croatian people, i.e. Croatian citizens, what will happen next 4 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u660	Here's an answer to Mrs. Rocksandic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u661	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Kulusic, you have rightly said that I did not quote those words of my fellow Greeks who on one pre-election show said if we discovered everything we planned, we might not have been elected. It's that basic message.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u662	Thank you. Replica Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u663	I agree, fellow Members, that this is indeed a scandalous political precedent. We know well how well at the end of the last session of the Parliament was called that law of integrity, how much there was from here a lex shex, and now we have lex komadinis if we're going to Latin or not know which other lex is in the legal proposal here in this House which has some other consequences or how someone would say repercusion, to speak Croatian. Namely, it is about retaining power at both local level and including mayors, mayors or mayors, excuse me, for mayors, in executive power at the state level. Which means if we have little doubt and we know from the experience that it was possible to re-expand the unbalanced development of all parts of Croatia. Because if the mayor comes from Sisak, Rijeka, and his deputies remain in power executive in Sisak, Sisak-Moslavina County, Rijeka-Primorje, etc., we know how it works and that is what is not good, and with all these mayors elected directly by name and last name, they simply do not have the right to resign as long as their term of office. Or the five months ago. They do, but then new elections follow, not to become Minister Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u664	Reply to the replica of Mrs. Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u665	I agree with my colleague Grubisic with you, in your last sentence you said and expressed the essence, all the local leaders and therefore we advocated in this House are directly selected by name and last name, non-partisan membership, name and last name, and their deputies are names and names. I wonder if the citizens of any of the deputies will want to be head of the local self-government, that should be asked to the citizens, I completely agree with you, it is precisely the democratic right we have been up for all along, and that is at this point for me, and surely others have asked these questions the basic constitutional right, the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u666	Thank you. Representative Mr. Sima Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u667	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, colleagues and colleagues, I'm not surprised at the new colleagues here in the Parliament, and I'm surprised at my colleagues, mostly from the SDP, because we've worked together over the past period and that you as experienced people have allowed this law to come to the bench. We know the reasons, I'm surprised my colleague Mršić, I'm not criticizing, and don't think I'm preaching here and giving lessons, I know my colleague Mršić how you stood up for local and regional self-government, and I congratulate you on the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors. And what's happened now, what happened in the meantime, is why that sudden twist. I was a colleague and fellow deputy mayor and mayor, but on the list, I was not directly elected, if I had been elected, my mandate would have been if my health had been served to the end because it was moral, because it was earned by citizens who chose to directly choose those people. I don't think this is good, that this is about democracy in Croatia and choosing two steps back, not one step but two steps back and that this time you as the promoters haven't been well-resonated and these colleagues and colleagues are not good for Croatian democracy, it's not good for those who elected us here to this honorable home. So colleagues and colleagues, it's not too late for me as your colleague, I respect you and please this is not good, it's not too late to withdraw this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u668	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u669	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a respected colleague and colleague I've been elected today as a member of the Legislative Committee and I must say that I felt very strange on this committee a team more specifically related to this law, the more I didn't get the bill in time so that I could study it and read it rather than get it a few minutes before the beginning of the session itself. However, when we saw the content of this amendment and the addition of the law, we saw that it really didn't take much time to figure out what it was about. It's just that in some ways they're trying to bring some illogicalness here into the work of the Parliament. I can understand that the Law on Government is being amended, that the Law on the Establishment of State Administration is being amended on the day of the Assembly's first session, because the next day should be sworn by the Government to appoint ministers, but to go to the amendments and additions of the Law on Local Self-Government, at the time when the Constitution of the Parliament speaks of one intention. If that were how she convinced me and the president of the board when I finally told her if it was the Law with the picture, she said it was the Law with the picture and the occasion. A chance for someone. But not during Croatia's democracy. So, from all that's said today and I agree with even my colleague Caine saying, it's a situation that I thought was impossible, but it's possible. He made it clear that he disagreed. I have here a few questions through this debate that I think are very important and very important to which the applicant should give an answer. I'm not for polemics who's who he told whom when he told, but imagine the situation whether there's a possibility that an official who's appointed to an incompatible duty would go back to his place as mayor or mayor, if he resigned, that's a question we don't have the answers to from this question. The second question, what happens if the mayor or mayor appointed as the minister has resigned appoints a deputy who doesn't want to be or accepts it and after two, three months says I won't do it, I can't do it, who then determines the next deputy? Is that when we go to the polls or are we going to the elections forever? You understand. These are questions that I believe should be answered, and this is neither the bill nor the amendment that has fundamentally changed the essence of this law does not provide an answer. So, I'm not going to repeat what my colleagues said, that it's kind of about playing voter's will. Well, of course, every head of the local self-government elected swears to do his duty honorably, as we have sworn as representatives here today. And they pledge to be that they will carry out their mandate until the end and no one gives them the right to change their mind in half of the term and thus play the will of the voters. I think that through these few questions I have actually pointed out what is the essence and essence of the amendments to the law and I really appeal to colleagues who have the parliamentary majority it is not yet late, so take it back and think about the message that has been sent here today and about the consequences that this amendment and the addition of the law will bring if it is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u670	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Article 207 is in accordance with Article 207. Article 2 The Rules of Procedure have expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. But we have three replicas here now. Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic. Here you go. I'm sure there'll be a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u671	I agree with you, and now I'm looking at my colleagues on the other side and I see them smiling, and the biggest thing that bothers me is how Professor Kregar smiles, a professor at law school, and he knows for sure that this is neither human nor moral, nor legal. And that's why I'm surprised that people who understand themselves right on the other side who won't stand up against this, because this is a blow to the common sense of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u672	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u673	The Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives and MPs. I would not repeat these arguments that have so far been made about democracy and what it all means for local self-government, but one question is raised that no one has mentioned so far, and that is whether these deputy mayors, mayors, mayors have done nothing so far, and then I can take over this job that was predicted because they were paid to be there or that means their own business at all, so by taking over these other duties, it will endanger the functioning of the entire system of local administration and self-government. We didn't have anyone to explain it here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u674	Mr. Ivan Shanatek, reply to the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u675	I couldn't agree more with you, Comrade Tudjman. The point of this law is to ignore the will of the citizens. The will of citizens is expressed in the elections and no one has the right to change them during the mandate they were elected to. In this way, it is harshly broken, here are colleagues... saying the Constitution is being violated and European rights on local self-government are being violated and what is called normal healthy human logic. And that's the essence of the whole story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u676	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, also a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u677	Thank you very much. Col. Shantek, along with this violation of the will of the citizens and their electoral will, and if we have a professor and constitutional right here, etc. Unfortunately, we only have smiles on the other side. But I don't understand anything you mentioned. What if, therefore, any of the mayoral leaders should say specifically in the regional self-government, why is anyone who is mayoral afraid to resign, and why is the party he is afraid to go to the elections? I don't get it. SDP colleagues, HNS. What are you afraid to go to the election for? Do you think the citizens are about to punish the mayor's move, so that's why you're afraid? I don't know. Perhaps you, Mr. Shantek, know?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u678	Thank you. Replication response. Mr. Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u679	My colleague Grubisic, I think you've really detected it correctly, because as the debate moves away, more and more questions arise. Take, for example, the Primorje-Gorski County, where it says the mayor will be a minister. His deputy is a parliamentary representative here, and there's only one deputy left. Now the question is, does this deputy have the right to have a deputy or is he a Superman who can do it alone, and let's say the mayor who was elected in the election he had to have two deputies to help him with all of it. It's a series of questions that are being asked, the more debated I think there will be even more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u680	Thank you very much. In an individual debate, Mr Frano Matušić is still on board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u681	Thank you, Mr. President. So I think the first step towards democracy was when we discussed these 5 first laws united, and I would say that this is now what has been prepared by the Kukuriku coalition that it is a shot at democracy, that killing the electoral rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and really is the basis for democracy in every society, which is therefore a democratic society, which wants to be a democratic society, and that is to trample all those rights that arise from the European Charter of Local Self-Government but, of course, from our Law on Local and Regional (area) Self-Government. The question really arises whether this took this to the Kukuriku coalition to be brought today on the day of the Croatian Parliament's constitution? But I think it is good for the public to show itself in the best light and with the right intentions in front of the Croatian public in which he wants to solve certain things that are certainly not in the interest of Croatian citizens. The laws ahead of us are for individuals, and not for Croatian citizens. The laws that are now ahead of us are being made for two or three individuals from the Kukuriku coalition. So it's a law that only works to satisfy the interest of two or three people in the Kukuriku coalition. So no interest of Croatian citizens that we represent here tonight in the Croatian Parliament and today in the Croatian Parliament is at stake. So, with this proposal you do not represent Croatian citizens, your proposal is to represent the interests of two or three individuals who want to be ministers, and the current laws and current laws that are in force do not allow them because they are incompatible duties. That's all it's about. That's all it's about. Is it worth the interest of two or three individuals who should sit in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is it worth overcoming the fundamental rights of Croatian voters. With this bill of law, you have violated the right of Croatian voters. They made it clear in their 2009 elections that they clearly said who they wanted for the head of local or regional (regional) self-government. They clearly said we want for the mayor of that and that, we want that person and that person. If he does not want to continue to be under the same law that is also clear to them, they should go back to the elections. There is really no reason for this law to, in this way, change in such a rough way, to break the basic rules of democracy. And I'm not going to refer my colleague to Mrs. Gristle any criticism, and I think he's aware of the unpleasant situation he's found himself in that he knows that this is indisputable and that he knows that as far as this is not in line with the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The European Charter of Local Self-Government makes it clear that representatives of the same local self-government need to be consulted when laws concerning the particular area are amended. So that is something that the European Charter clearly represents and that is something that we have signed. Croatia is a signator of the European Charter on Local Regional Self-Government. Someone here asked who you consulted, so you consulted those two, three people who are interested in getting some new chairs and some new functions but that's not good. I suppose that's why the distinguished colleagues who have already been named here, I won't call them, they'll probably call themselves if they feel the need to report but who have warned for many years about relations between the central government, so both the legislative authorities and the government towards the units of local self-government. Today we have the roughest bump with a drill to the bottom, with a drill to the bottom in these fundamental rights stemming from the law, from Croatian laws and from the European Charter. I want to know how the Croatian media will comment on this, too, which I am also interested in. I'm also interested in local regional self-government leaders' reactions, and I'm interested in that, too. That's what I'm interested in, too. So after that first step, which was already a step towards democracy when new political officials are being introduced, instead of 76, as we said earlier, more than 120 new political counterparts are being introduced to act as authorities in ministries and new ministries. Now here you can see, the rights of local self-government to this truly unseen and unremembered way in the Croatian Parliament. Unremembered way. I'm sure no such proposal in any of the council's so far summation would have gone to the majority. If such a proposal, the way you are really raping democracy today through this bill certainly no majority of the previous assembly would have suggested it, and certainly would not have put it on the agenda in this way, nor would it have been adopted or that was the case. Nor was that the case. I really feel sorry for my colleagues Mršić for for for eight years in vain representing everything he said on behalf of the local self-government in order to do so today in such a truly inappropriate way I had to refute and kill in just a few sentences. So all of his call effort in eight years has failed unfortunately because of the fact that he's got this kind of ungrateful role to defend something that's not defensive from any position. I don't envy you, but think twice about what you've done by accepting the role of defenders of this bill and of this bill, which really means not 10 steps back, they can open up the space of thinking that this is about decades back, about decades back. What is the next step, perhaps in the next step, will you say that the mandate of the parliamentary representatives of the current majority may not last for 4 years but 50 years, is that perhaps the next step? Is that perhaps the next step? ... /The noise in the hall./... And that you who, for some reason, can't conduct your duties for 50 years, may be able to name someone who, instead of you, will continue to act for the next 50 years. Is that perhaps the next step? ... /The noise in the hall./... Is that right, fellow Caine? You might agree with that. ... I know it's not easy for you either, you went out there at least honestly for the pay phone to say that you disagree, although you'll probably vote for it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's what it's like in practice. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You hear how practice this is tossing. But indeed here I appeal just like all my colleagues, don't pass this law in this way, give yourself a little time, consult local self-government representatives, don't trample on the rights of those people whose rights are guaranteed by Croatian laws, the laws that have been discussed. So Col. Mršić, the law that was passed was not passed in an emergency procedure, was passed in two readings, the law we talked about in 2007. So here, we appeal indeed to colleagues from the Kukuriku coalition regardless of all our different approaches and different views, but here it's not about that, it's about something that we really believed was somewhere behind us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u682	Thank you very much. Replications. Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker, then Mr. Representative Josip Borić and Mr. Representative Branko Boxti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u683	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you spoke nicely to your colleague Matušić. However, I think this law sends us one message, we can do whatever we want. You can do it, but you'll also be held accountable. Since we know exactly what county this is, which mayor is concerned about because you are aware of one other thing that you place on the back of that deputy who remains alone in not one small county. The Primorje-Gorski County, both in economic strength and in financial strength, is not a small county, and therefore one mayor is expected to have two deputies to consult with and make decisions with. Are you aware of the facts of what you're doing to that man and what responsibility you're putting on him that someone is imputing something to him tomorrow and that they did it for this or that? Well, look at your colleague for one human moment. Leave politics alone. But this reminds me of a debate here when the City of Rijeka City Council wanted to make a decision on the guarantee to the Rijeka shipyard even though they knew it was against the law that they had no right to do so. They still suggested it for purely political reasons. And now the exact same thing is happening. So what's the election then? You cannot seem to agree that Croatia has turned into a democratic state and that you cannot do what you want! And you can laugh all you want. But this law that you have proposed denies your laughter and make sure you can't do whatever you want. I sincerely hope that the Constitutional Court that has intervened on certain other matters will give its own rightful word to this as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u684	Thank you. Mr. Josip Boric. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u685	Dear President, here I am again saying that we do not know why this law is changing because we have not heard it from the motionor and that I agree with Mr Matusic, because it remains unclear within that same law why for some situations there is a time period of one year when elections are being debated or not discussed. And in another situation, we now have two years. So for several different situations, we also have different time periods within which elections may or may not be called. The best example for this is still the current government, which just a few days ago has called elections to elect the new mayor of the city of Varazdin. And we're not exactly for saving or I don't know what suspended the values of democracy. We didn't do it, even though we might have thought of it then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u686	Thank you. Mr. Representative Branko Box. Mr. Representative, please have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u687	I thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Matusic, you said you were sorry for Mrsic's colleagues. I'm also very sorry. Look on the right side from up and down. counterpart Bonačić Deputy Mayor of Dubrovnik Sabo Vukovar, colleague Ronko Požega, colleague Jovanovic Rijeka, colleague Linić Rijeka, Luka Denon Deputy was once mayor, colleague Mršić Mayor, Baranovic Sibenik, Vidović Sibenik. So there's over 20 of you. A colleague of Jerkovic's also a Rijeka. There are over 20 of you working and working in local self-government. A knife in the back of democracy! You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u688	Thank you. And finally representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go, individual debate. You're the last one to be reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u689	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, first of all, I have to conclude that by the will of the majority or by the violence of the majority, we have to discuss you as the President of the Croatian Parliament as well as the opposing Rules of Procedure of this Croatian Parliament on a law which has not been declared by the parent body. Well, then, if it didn't offend our intelligence, Mršić, it would be almost as touching as he asks us to interpret that here at 10 o'clock in the evening he wants to change the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government in order to regulate what is not regulated by the existing law and that is the first thing we need to discuss at this first extraordinary session or second. So, I also think that a colleague of Mrs. SDP's Club of Representatives has not done a favor which he has ordered to defend this indefensible law, and it's interesting that no one else from the club has reported by any application to help him defend this a little bit. But since we have a healthy intelligence, then we can say that you've put a serious law into actually a chairing policy, so here we've heard that this isn't the Law on local self-government and that it doesn't regulate the structure and the way local self-government works, but elections are being decided. And then as we know it's a good democratic practice, so one other election law says the election laws don't change in the election year. And look what we have to talk about here today, what do we have to discuss? Today, we are talking about a law that is not going to be applied very quickly to some elections, but is actually applied retroactively to the 2009 elections that have already been held. So because these people we're talking about here went to direct elections. Mr. President, would you calm this assembly down a little bit? If anyone won't listen, let them come out. So I repeat, as you have said, these two laws are actually electoral laws I have warned of good democratic practices and other laws that in the election year the laws are not changed, and here we are changing the law relating to the elections already held in 2009 and now we are changing the rules on people elected in the elections two years ago and we are now determining that their mandate will last. [[President: I agree with you. Please, a little peace. Here you go.]] So, one precedent. As the meeting of this Croatian Parliament began today, I think that very soon from democracy there will not be any last e. So, not only are we insulting the European Charter of Local Self-Government, so we have not consulted anyone about anything, we are insulting all the principles of electoral legislation, we are applying retroactiveness, and I would say this in the end. There was a Committee on Legislatives where some members of the Committee had an observation that it might be a law that was laid down here for one chance ad hoc opportunity and all this is taken care of by colleagues of Shantek about problems and open issues of this law in the future, because it is important to pass this law tonight, so it will be voted before the Constitutional Committee says whether this is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or not, and then when it is fulfilled, when all ministers are where they want to be, then they may be discussed further amendments to this law. But then it is not enough yet, the bill said in a proposal that if the mayor, mayor or chief of staff ceases office, and after two years of office, then elections will not be held, but will be replaced by a deputy. And now you can wonder why exactly two years, why not three, why not two and a half. Well, that's because now these people need it for two years. But then when it was not drawn enough that it should have been drawn, then the Committee on Legislatives and Presidents who said that the law had explained the picture and the opportunity a little more, so the amendment of the Legislative Committee came, which then says that only if the mandate ceases because of the election or appointment of the non-compatible duty will the elections be held. Oh, look at the wonders. But if that mandate ceases because someone is to resign, or the longer they are prevented or they are sick or they die, then the elections need to be repeated, then the more the cost of local and regional self-government won't matter, then we'll spend 5 million, then that deputy who is also a fellow Mršić on the same election list under the same conditions, and then he won't be able to replace that mayor, not only if he is appointed or elected to an incompatible duty. Why? Because you now have one example where you have to take care of some people. So I ask what's the reason if two years of office are up, if a man doesn't let God die or something else has happened to him, or if he resigned for his reasons, then why couldn't the deputy replace him so directly in the same way? You couldn't because you don't need it right now, so you drew it the way you needed it. Here's really many times here tonight it's said that this is really the twilight of democracy, so you could, you had ways, you have 60 days to conduct the elections, so at least you could name what you wanted to name, so in 60 days in peace, discuss this law and maybe agree it a little less that we don't all have to keep the picture on the first page of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u690	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u691	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The truth is, my colleague Shakespeare has stated that this law has been debated by an unauthorized working body. With a colleague of Anna Lovrin, it becomes true, and the truth is, I'm going to read it now. So the report of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, which discussed the same law as the home working body on 12 September 2008 and proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt it as proposed. On 24 February 2009, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament held at the 26th session of 11 March 2009 discussed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and again proposed to the Croatian Assembly as a parent working body to adopt the law. You want a third conclusion? It is therefore undeniable that the competent working body has proposed, discussed and proposed the adoption of this law which we are now discussing, as was the case in 2008 and 2009. So it's incorrectly claimed here by fellow Shexes and colleague Anna Lovrin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u692	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u693	Thank you very much. So, the violation of the Rules of Procedure in that I didn't say it was inappropriately parenting, that the unauthorized body was discussing it. ... 209. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I said this, that the parent body did not discuss this law, and I am talking about the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. Take out the phonogram and look, I wasn't talking about the Constitution Committee not being in charge of that part of the election, so I didn't say that, and there's a broken Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u694	Okay. Facts are important. Replica, Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u695	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's my colleague, Lovrin, you've established and you've answered everything as it's been described in fact. You said that this bill would certainly have other connotations in local units as well as an alliance of municipalities that had intervened before with the European Parliament because they were not satisfied with certain legislative proposals. Thus, it is likely that this time, as I have consulted them, this will end as a European epilogue that without question, without the use of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, they have passed and proposed certain laws as referred to in Article 6(6), that the local units will, as appropriate, be asked in a timely manner for their opinion in the process of preparing and making decisions directly related to them. I think this is clearly talking about how you want to ignore any unit of local self-government,... The alliance of municipalities, the alliance of cities, the alliance of counties by force without any consultations would like to pass this law that suits only individuals who could also wait for their mandate, probably exists between you and other people who would nominate for ministries or state services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that this should not have turned out like this and that it could have been brought in good spirit so that for other opportunities that were both death and disease and all those other levels that Mršić spoke of and put into this law, everything would have been defined and all transparent. This is how it's clear what it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u696	Thank you. Replication response, Madam Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u697	Thank you very much. Well, yes, Mr. Representative, I expect, because we have heard a lot in the past term and from the chairman of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, but I certainly expect from Mr. Obersnel, who is the president of the Association of Cities and of the Presidents of the Association of County, I expect that this case where the organic law on local and regional self-government and the Law on direct elections has been discussed and that at no time has been consulted by the associations, cities and municipalities and the county will certainly inform the Committee on the Local Self-Government of the Council of Europe and I believe that Mr. Obersnel is always very much communicating with Europe on all issues where local self-government is threatened that he will certainly do so this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u698	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the points discussed. I am voting on the first Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of this Law require most of all MPs in the Assembly, so 76 votes at least. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most of the votes 81 for and 21 against the passed Law amending the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb are in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u793	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. These proposals of the Law, the Proposal for a Law amending the Implementing Law with the Final Proposal of the Law and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Executors, show that we are the authority that holds to its word because it holds to its citizens, we are precisely the authority that keeps our promises and we are the first to do so. After all, when it comes to this most sensitive issue that has been exciting to our public for months, we show first of all that we are a government that has a soul and all of those inscriptions that our citizens have suffered from, 600 thousand accounts have been blocked, people who have lost their jobs, people who have not received their deserved wages fear and feared until recently, and we want to order these bill proposals to end their nightmare. To stop public perpetrators who were afraid and shivering for debtors, who got in trouble without their own guilt. When laws like this were passed that we, with these amendments, would like to extend and suspend their action so that they would indeed shake and search both laws to see what needs to be corrected. By not denying anyone the right, not to any believer to pay his debts, but also how long it will be enough to prepare the amendments to the Executive Act in detail. When such laws were passed, it was said that the state would function, and what we want first of all to function our citizens, and those citizens who are the weakest, those on the margins, those who are declassified and marginalized to see right in the state their refuge and the meaning of government and the state is above all, there is nothing more to do than protect the weakest ones who are just in their weakness affecting it. And that's our primary task. The argument that the introduction of public perpetrators relieves the judiciary and that in such a way, the state will indeed function in fact give up the state and give up its main prerogatives. However, we ask whether it's fair and in that old maximum, the Latin sumum ius is a summation of iniuria. So we need to put in place all these debtors first of all to protect their jobs, that protected those people and those debtors who were jobless. When these workers were to be protected and their pay protected, for 8 years we had the law in the Penal Code, we have determined, scholarshipd exactly, fasting and incriminate just such one behavior that non-payment of wages would be a criminal offence. Eight years of our persistent repetition was passed before the end of last term of the last government and again with a one-year suspension. We say that we must also immediately change and protect workers in their fundamental rights, but also the failures of contributions. That's a long way from '97. the years stopped being a crime. So it was precisely one thought-out and organized extradition of workers to the mercy of some irresponsible employers where the state raised its hands and did not protect them particularly in an adequate way. And we simply have to break the logic that we put even the judiciary to work at two different speeds. To act at the first speed as it was with these existing laws that we now want to change when we need to look at the weak ones, and when it's the same weak one looking for protection from the state then it works at the slowest speed. And that's the situation we want to change. We believe there is no difference and more important duty than these things. So we tell citizens that such persons are those public contractors, there have already been speeches lately, especially in pre-election times, if Croatia is not already California we will not even allow it to be Texas. Let them enter the apartments, prey on the property, break into locked spaces, take away the things they want, sell them almost invaluable. They also have no protection against illegal conduct. The only legal remedy has no regular legal remedy and the only protection would be just protection from the Constitutional Court. What about the damages that such sheriffs would do with their illegal work? Such a provision is absolutely necessary. Therefore, in this respect, the state should react in this way and react to be responsible for the illegal conduct. In this way, public perpetrators could only answer with their own property, which is not enough in any case. Also, one frightening norm that has been, which has existed and which we want to suspend in this way is that public perpetrators choose labour according to their intent. So, with the most sensitive questions, the question is exactly the point. The issue of execution of a court ruling in these most sensitive matters is the most significant issue. Therefore, in times of crisis, the state is about to step up its engagement in their protection, it disowns some of its powers and shifts precisely to such private persons, which, regardless of their public authority in these times, we do not find it appropriate. So, what was the rush in times like this going to be the charge and the charge of selling old tables, chairs, some TV that would be excluded from the nursery, would that save the country? No, gentlemen. We are holding the position that any debt should be paid and that payment order is very important in the expansion of business and above all civil morality. But we also hold to our very fundamental duty that the state, first of all, should it already intend to discipline others to come from itself. And it is our task that the state first disciplines itself, and then those strong, above all strong employers who have been very forgetful so far in their obligations whether it's a state, whether it's creditors, suppliers or workers who should have been paid, who should have received their fee, their salary, but they haven't received it, and you've been sent to them by public contractors. With these proposals of the law, we stop them and thus fulfill our promise in this first step. And I'm saying, there will be plenty of time to see what in the Code of Conduct can be done to make this law really fair, to be a law for citizens, not against citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u794	Excuse me, motionary representatives, may I ask you immediately if you agree with the amendment of the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u795	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u796	Thank you. You're on, all right. ... Yes, but the board could have concluded otherwise. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm asking if the representatives of the board would like to take a word for it. No, I don't. I now give my word to Mr. Josip Djakić for correcting the incorrect allegations, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u797	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So I'm going to correct one in a series of inaccuracies that my colleague Antičević said, and this is about protecting the weakest and the powerless, protecting those who have fallen into crisis because of the lack of pay. I have different knowledge, you protect those who have committed something among your ranks that is certainly against the law, gone into the thick minuses, refused to accept the executions, refused to accept judgments, and because of such ones among your ranks formulate this law. Here, that's the truth we'll still have a chance to talk about, be assured. Don't disturb me when I speak, I don't appoint anyone, but I have knowledge that I will certainly speak out loud and clear about.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u798	Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u799	Thank you, Mr. President. All of what the proposing said was true, of course, but it has nothing to do with the text of the law. This law therefore postpones the action, the start of the operation of the Executive Act or the Act on Authors. If it's as terrible as it is, I agree that it is, I would expect that the club in power, the clubs in the power of those four clubs that I'm not saying that they have made a proposal to suspend the law, to pass a law on the abolition of the Law on public enforcement, that is, such an executive law. Now what we're going to vote in a few minutes is simply delaying all these terrible things that are happening, not ending them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u800	Thank you. I'm opening a debate now. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u801	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. So here we heard on behalf of the promoter that I am not a taste of amending this proposal and amending the law but we heard again a demagogue speech and actually a pure demagogue which probably in the election campaign to some people who touched the performance promised. Do not forget fellow Members and colleagues that the rule of law and the effective judiciary mean that the judicial and other enforcement acts are finally and completed, that the person who has requested judicial protection is not enough to have the paper in his hand, but must receive this right materially or immaterially, but must receive it and only then is the case in the judiciary completed. There are a number of cases, and therefore we have taken measures to make the judiciary more effective and to speed up the process, there are a number of cases where people have received a verdict, they have had that verdict in hand but they can hang it somewhere, because a long time ago more of the subject from which it was to be settled was or was in an executive procedure that avoided paying until such payment was possible. And now let's go back to this law, why the HDZ Club will not support its adoption and will not vote for it, first of all because this law has been passed as one of the meeting criteria in Chapter 23. We have promised to pass this law and the Executive Law to amend and the Law on Public Executors. And it is true that now someone is not correcting me is true that in this sense there is no acquis of a European, there is no legal gain, but we ourselves have said that we will make the judiciary effective amongst ourselves, so that in this way we will amend the Executive Law and pass the Law on to the public enforcers, and we have presented it to the European Commission, and this has also been observed in the progress report and in our negotiating positions that I am the text of the law and so on the deadlines in which we will implement it. Remember that there is monitoring, so until the entry into the EU, and here I am calling on those who have been very actively involved in this process to think about that part of this proposal, too, to amend and supplement the law. One more thing, about a year ago, about this law was passed in the last meeting of the Croatian Parliament by the Law on Public Executors with 111 votes, and the Executive Law with 108 votes. So to the two-thirds majority, so with a lot of votes from these same MPs who are proposing today a delay in its application. He was then brought in with a delay in the entry into force of some provisions for a year just to prepare to prepare everything for the public ministry. Public perpetrators are not persons without qualifications, they are persons who have completed the Law School, passed a judicial exam and passed a public enforcement exam, therefore more than is necessary for a judge and a state attorney. These now doubts as to the employment of a physical worker are therefore about to be made as if you were asking that a dactylograph in the Public Notebook's Office must have certain specific conditions which I do not know who will evaluate. And it's not true that this way by delaying this law is actually protecting perhaps the most endangered social groups. Are you sure you fellow MPs won't protect in this all those who have a lot of money and buy what kind of luxury stuff and expensive cars, and avoid paying their legally established obligations that with any evictions and pranks. And it's not true that so far in the Penal Code there has been no impediment to the crime of non-payment of wages. It was. Maybe a little bit of a general thread was corrupt, but it was. And it is not true that the existing Implementing Law is not protected by the most vulnerable social community. They did. Because we're on several occasions in 2011. In addition, for the purposes of public sales, price protection at the public auction and for the protection of or exemption from the performance of the things necessary for the existence and the same amount of money required as the existential minimum. And in this existential minimum, we evened out the poorer ones. As you know, we no longer kept a percentage of the salary that is then large for someone small, but instead protected that existential minimum from the average salary. Here, I don't know why part of the current majority of the ruling parliament has changed its mind now, why it is now considering public enforcement when we passed this law to the two-thirds majority. This is a practice that is famous in Europe, 19 countries out of 27 know the practice of public perpetrators. We finally introduced this as a measure of speeding up the court proceedings, because the majority of the backlogs in the courts were just now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u802	Please keep your voice down so the representative can speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u803	Objects. And in the end it's late so I won't be long because about this law, it's a big one you could really talk about for two hours. And finally, what's the message in this country about legal certainty? Are we going to say every time there's a new council meeting that starts all over again, that what we've been doing for the past four years we're going to wipe out and we're going to change everything? Well, the poor people who live in that country. So, I warn that over the past year, the basis of the applicable law has put in place tenders for public contractors. People answered, people were selected by competition, they passed public exams, many of them because they were told in law that they would start doing work 1.1.2012. What about those people who might have quit somewhere because they're going to the new service, who bought some business space for their public office, what are we going to do tonight and tell them there's nothing since 1.1.2012, now you think what you're going to do for half a year? what you're going to do for half a year, and you've answered the contest. And there is also a question of certain assessments of whether people can be asked to invite a whole group of public competitions under the law voted 2/3 of the majority in this Croatian Parliament. People answer, they do all the jobs they need, and then you tell them no, no, there's no, there's no, none of that service of yours, we'll end it. Such legal certainty so I don't know what other countries there are in, somewhere in South Africa maybe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u804	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Madam Representative Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u805	Thank you, Mr. President. I feel the need to say something on this subject, especially since it is about achieving efficiency in the implementation of judicial rulings that have to do with our European reforms, regardless of personal style. In this case, it is necessary to look at the measure of what is proposed and what is proposed to postpone the implementation of this law from 1 January 2012 on 1 July 2012, so to postpone it by 6 months. What is the purpose of this law? The purpose of this law is to achieve legal certainty and order, i.e. to make decisions of a judicial nature and to implement them. And we'll stick to it there's no doubt about it. Comrade Lovrin, in my opinion, you have the right to say that it is important that court decisions be conducted. I also think it's important, the question is just what is and in which form is the most effective way. Whether when institutions do not function to invent another institution, if necessary, and we will have time. It's one option, and the other is that we might get to those institutions that exist and function. But the measure of change is nothing, if I may say so harshly this slightly elevated atmosphere, but it is actually that the introduction of a legal order is only organised in one effective way, and the measure is delayed from 1.1. to 1.7. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u806	Thank you very much. The replica was reported by representative Ana Lovrin, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u807	The criterion is that the law for which the application was being prepared for a year, I repeat a law which, by the will of a narrow majority, is voted against by the will of almost all this House of Representatives and is said to come into force at that time. And there were preparations and some people were invited to the competition, to do these jobs because the law said they were going to do it since 1.1, now we're going to tell them no, you're not going to do it, you're going to tell them in half a year so we can think about whether we're the best or not, and in 2011, I think one or three times that law has been changed just to protect those most vulnerable social categories, and now we remember that we don't really know if that's the case anymore. I argue that this is an orderly legal uncertainty, and we have also promised those deadlines in both the negotiating position and not only that we will pass the laws but that we will implement them and that we will implement them within certain deadlines.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u808	Reply to the replica, please welcome MP Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u809	Thank you, Mr. President. With all due respect to 60 or 70 people who have appeared here for this contest, the purpose of the competition is not these people. The purpose of the law is to implement judicial decisions, that's the purpose and all that leads to that purpose, which is to effectively implement judicial decisions, that's what people should do, and that was and we don't have to give anyone an honorable word. We have only a word of honor that we will introduce legal certainty for the people who operate in this area and that in this way we will implement what is in the spirit of this law. Is that how we leave institutions to fail, so we introduce a new institution, or by bringing institutions to their functioning for that now we have six months. And you will also allow it to be a little more important to implement court decisions in fact effectively than to fully respect this situation with a group of perpetrators who have responded to the competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-1.u810	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Implementing Law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that most votes with 86 votes in favour, 23 against the adoption of the Law amending the Implementing Law as proposed by the Proposer with the amendment adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. Before we proceed with the work of the Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System asked that the scheduled session of that Committee be postponed for 10 hours until the moment of the first break, so please note that. We continue the debate with item 10 of the agenda, which is presentation. What?
