ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u74979	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. I will seek to present in short lines the work or report of the HBOR for 2010. First of all, I have to say that this is the first time we're going to report in these reports is the financial reports of the HBOR Group and the banks, so what we've had so far is the usual. In 2010, HBOR, together with the OkB, established a special insurance company for the insurance of firm risks, namely political commercial risks in the insurance of Croatian exports, with a ratio of 51% of HBOR property and 49% of KOB property. Therefore, we were forced to comply with EU rules and agreements signed by Croatia with the EU to take all the risks out of the state development bank. I will still speak here today so as not to talk again about HBOR's financial statements because these HBOR financial reports are slightly different from that of the HBOR itself. Namely, our company Croatian Credit Insurance started operating on July 1st and there is no normally significant business or difference in the financial statements of the group and HBOR are really insignificant. I hope that this difference in the financial statements of the group and the HBOR will be much more significant in the following year and we will also give a special reference to the group in these short reports, especially the HBOR. Therefore, in 2010 or rather at the end of 2010, the total balance sheet amount of HBOR was 22 billion and 900 million kuna. This is an increase of about 10% compared to the previous year in 2009. The total capital was around 7 billion kuna and the total item foreseen for payment of HBOR’s share capital in the state budget for 2010 was up to 220 million and paid into capital. Total approved loans amounted to 6 billion $600 million. This is about 7.5% compared to the previous year in 2009, but as far as the number of loans is concerned, that is 34%. In fact, we've granted exactly a thousand 606 loans. The structure of approved loans, if we look at the most, related to the promotion of exports. So about 55% of total loans in 2010 were related to the lending of exports and exporters, which we believe is extremely important in this time of crisis to encourage the best and most vital part of the Croatian economy. Then the large economy is credited with 26%, small and medium-sized enterprises 16% and municipal infrastructure 3%. The guarantees were issued in total amounting to around 4 million and 900 thousand kuna. Most of them were export-based bank guarantees. The mandated jobs we did on behalf of and on behalf of the primary state, 2 billion 200 million kuna, totalling around 930, most of which concerned export insurance from political and commercial risks 2 billion and 100 million kuna 884 approvals. And there we covered about 3% of total Croatian exports in the reporting year. So over a thousand 200 customers in the 51st country of the world have been secured. So, if we now add up all the credit activities issued by guarantees and mandates, our total business activity in 2010 was 8 billion and 800 million kuna. Just one comparison, so our overall activity from the draft was about 91 billion kuna. The total revenues in 2010 amounted to 921 million kuna and were reduced by 2% So HBOR as a state-run development export bank did not increase interest rates in the last year despite the increase in interest rates both on the domestic and on the world market and on money and capital. So, we have defined ourselves consciously that we will go to a smaller profit achieved to help the Croatian economy better, that is how our basic range of interest rates that was in the previous period before the crisis between 2% and 6% do not rise, so it remained unchanged for the businessmen. Total expenditures amounted to 803 million kuna and increased by 3% due to new debts and increased reserves for problematic and reprogrammed placements. It was won at 118 million kuna and it was lower by about 30% compared to the previous year. So I won't repeat what I said before, we consciously, with the support and decision of the HBOR Supervisory Board, went to lower profits to help the Croatian economy better. The reservations amounted to 110 million kuna and were carried out in accordance with the analyses and risks of our plasmas, so the reservations were increased for those clients with difficulties as well as those we had reprogrammed according to best banking practice. The agreed debts in 2010 were 384m euros, and they were all related to our contracts and agreements with international financial institutions. Namely, increased debt prices for Croatian debtors or borrowers or bond issuers have increased and could keep the same level of interest rates as we had in the previous period the only way was therefore to be in charge through international financial institutions. Thanks to good co-operation and the reputation of HBOR in the previous period, we have done so and therefore concluded an agreement with the Central Bank of the Council of Europe with the CEB of 50m euros, a credit line for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. With the EIB European Investment Bank, 250m euros, a credit line for financing small, medium-sized enterprises, one part so 50m euros both for large and for infrastructure. Then with KFE, Germany's Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 30m euros for tourism financing and 20m euros for lending also with KFE. The only domestic source was the loan of business banks of 2 billion kuna, which we achieved by laying down the reserve of the Croatian National Bank for the financing of craftsmen in difficulty, so-called Model A, therefore, through measures by the Government to assist economies or economies to overcome the problems of the global economic and financial crisis as quickly as possible. In 2010, we introduced four new programmes. The first programme for micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, so those who are most difficult to obtain credit under the credit line that we have concluded with KFE, the German Bank for Reconstruction. Then in order to encourage the better use of pre-accession funds, we introduced two new IPARD programmes of 301 to develop rural infrastructure and IPARD measures 302, diversification and development of rural economic activities. The two programmes related to the Government’s recovery measures for the economy for the crediting of crafts model A and guarantees under the economic recovery measures and model B development. In March, a consultation was held on micro-crediting to encourage the best use of this credit programme for those smallest entrepreneurs and craftsmen. We organized this consultation with colleagues from KFE, the German Bank for Reconstruction. In September, HBOR hosted a meeting of the Prague Club and held a 9th international conference on promotion of exports. In March, we signed an agreement with Credex, a co-operation agreement with the Lithuanian Export Bank. A co-operation agreement with the Bulgarian Development Bank BDB was signed in May and an agreement was signed in December with the Egyptian Export and Development Bank. In December, we also received the honour of the European Association of Public Banks. The President of the Board has been elected to a two-year term as president of the EABB, so the European Development Banks Association, which is a recognition for HBOR, but also for Croatia, because most of the 100 members are practically from the European Union, except HBOR from Croatia. The only non-EU members are the Norwegian Development Bank and the Cantonal Swiss Bank. So, I have already said that we have established a Croatian credit insurance with the OkB, with our Austrian partners, and there has been also a paid-up capital of 37 million and 500 thousand and the establishment of their company PISA we have begun to operate as a group. I will also take a very short look at the business so far or the undertaken activities of HBOR in 2011. We've brought back new programs based on finding the economy. For the first time, we brought credit for the preparation of agricultural production, so craftsmanship for farmers, not only farmers, but also farmers and farmers of Mediterranean culture, so olive groves, vineyards, orchards. We've brought in a special program for women entrepreneurs in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy. So, under this programme, the interest rate for women entrepreneurs is 4%, but with the Ministry of Economy's incentives, it is 2% per year for end-users. We've brought in a new liquidity lending programme, craftsmanship in the broadest sense of the word, so for all purposes. Then again, the new IPARD programme to encourage the application of measure 101 to invest in agricultural holdings and to measure 103 investments in the processing and marketing of agricultural and fish products. Then we brought a lot of changes to the existing programmes to facilitate the economy and access to our loans and ensure their best use. We increased HBOR's share of credit in the total investment. He was up to 50%. Now, for most credit programmes, up to 75% is possible, and for those programmes that are the most risky, therefore, programs for loaning beginners and inventors, our share is up to 85% possible. So we intend to enter these risky programmes, but which we consider extremely important for the Croatian economy. Therefore, encouraging inventors and beginners, those who are just moving with business activity and self-employment, as well as hiring other workers. Then we did what entrepreneurs love most, which is a reduction in interest rates. So, in encouraging exporters, the basic programme to encourage exporters, the preparation of goods for export, we reduced the lowest interest rate that by this year was 5% reduced to 4%. Then we cut the interest rate by model A+. So, the continuation of model A from last year from 3.8 to 2.8% and we extended the start and payment deadline for the crediting of the crafts. So, the beginning was a year. Now it's two years old and the payoff's up to six years. Here's what would be in the shortest lines. I don't want to be long. And here we stand at the disposal of me and my colleague Irena Adžić Jagodic for all questions and explanations if you still need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u74980	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u74981	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Kovac and his associate, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development as a Development Bank has an important role in economic development, and this has been particularly evident in the years of the economic crisis. However, HBOR cannot have a more significant impact on the recovery of investment activities if such an atmosphere does not exist in an economic environment, i.e. if it is not driven by entrepreneurs and if the Government does not provide a positive macroeconomic environment. In 2010, HBOR placed through credit activities as we heard 6.6 billion kuna and followed 1606 projects, i.e. users, which is significant at a time when business banks do not hear more favourable credit lines at hand and interest rate. This is a significant increase in both the amount of credit and the number of users. The structure of movement is also very important. Export programmes participated with 55%, a large economy of 26, a small and medium-sized enterprise with 16, the rest were funds placed for infrastructure needs. Export guarantees are significant as well as additions to export credits, and mandated transactions, which were mentioned more in the introduction. In 2010 there was a further decline in entrepreneurship activities in Croatia, and this was reflected in the activities of HBOR. The absence, i.e. a major drop in investment investments, and a huge indifference that has currently exceeded 38 billion kunas have affected the change in the structure of HBOR's credit activity and more than 78% of the funds have been granted for trade purposes. Through HBOR activities, part of the economic recovery programme was to be operationalised, but given the lack of government operationalisation of certain accompanying measures or their complete absence, so-called ‘registration’. The HBOR-led models A, B and C did not have a major impact on economic recovery and liquidity reduction. So, model A, which was largely realised, actually, was mostly used to pay the dues and unpaid state loans. The recovery and reduction should, in fact, be followed by other measures, not only by financial measures through HBOR placements. Although these measures are also active in this year as so-called. Plus models, A+, B+ seems to have still not received more significant results since we are already in the middle of this business year. In business terms, HBOR achieved 921 million kuna of income, 803 million kuna of expenditure and a financial result of 118 million kuna. This is a slightly weaker result compared to 2009 but it is actually the result of a political decision, i.e. a decision by the Supervisory Board on keeping the level and, in some sense, a reduction in interest rates as measures to help the economy, i.e. the beneficiary of HBOR credits. HBOR's credit claims increased by 35%, but it is good that new loans are tied to public and not to business banks. In particular, this was the development bank of the Council of Europe, i.e. the monitoring of the CERP programme, the European Investment Bank and the German KFW, and the club loan of domestic banks for model A. HBOR has developed a wide range of credit programmes related to export programmes as the most significant monitoring, financial monitoring of the economy, agriculture, tourism, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, environmental protection and sustainable development, infrastructure, inventions, beginners, female entrepreneurship, financial restructuring, crafts, and payments under IPARD programmes. So this is really already a large number of programmes and projects that can be used by the Croatian economy. The core capital of HBOR has been established by the HBOR Act in the amount of 7 billion kuna to be paid out of the state budget. Since no payment deadline has been set, just over 5 billion kuna has been paid so far. In recent years, around 200 million or exactly 200 million kunas have been provided in the state budget for this purpose, and at such a rate as the payment of the base capital of 7 billion kuna from the state budget will only be settled in 10 years. We are constantly warning that these funds should be increased in the state budget. Given that the government has decided to withdraw some of the dividends from state-owned companies after the 2010 budget account, we propose that these funds return to the economy through HBOR programmes, i.e. an increase in the budget item for HBOR in 2011. HBOR continuously monitors credit, liquid, interest, currency and other risks. The risks are under control because the highest exposure of the credit portfolio to business banks is in terms of control in the Croatian National Bank control system. In direct lending, HBOR uses an effective risk assessment methodology so far, so that HBOR has not been exposed to higher risks. In particular, it is good to monitor the risks of related companies, which is more widely stated in the report itself. This job will be more responsible, as HBOR will continue to have more and more direct placements in the future, therefore it is extremely important to continue to educate staff for these jobs, but also for the overall functioning of the HBOR and ensure that they remain in the HBOR and through, among other things, materially stimulating, stimulation that should be adequate to the same business in other financial organisations. In the last year, the government and the institution applied their wage reduction provision. We find that HBOR successfully performed its function in 2010 in particular by accompanying exporters, which also reflected the increase in exports. At the time of the crisis, HBOR became an important financial support for the Croatian economy. We highlight high professionalism in the work of employees and propose new programmes that correspond to the current needs of the Croatian economy. The SDP Club accepts the annual HBOR financial reports for 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u74982	Thank you. It's my turn to the HNS Club, HSU, Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u74983	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Board with an associate, colleague and colleague. The HNS and HSU Club, and especially the Croatian People's Party and its representatives all these years since the HBOR has been very active and engaged, monitors all information about how HBOR as our public, our development bank, works to what extent it can and to what extent it truly fulfils its role in supporting development programmes in the economy of the Republic of Croatia, and every year we try to be as objective as possible by thanking, naturally, those segments of the functioning of this system by which the HBOR is recognised as a good and functional system, so in this sense we use this opportunity and congratulate Mr Kovac on the choice of the European Association of Public Banks. However, we also try to make those remarks every year and that kind of remarks that should be taken into account that the functionality of this system is increasing, that is to say through it, because it cannot be isolated from this process, in fact it is critically actively looking at the government's economic development policy as well. Because it is quite clear that the HBOR cannot go beyond the development policy implemented by the Croatian Government on behalf of the State and that the HBOR is fully dependent on the government policy of the Republic of Croatia, not only because the chairman of the supervisory board of this bank is the minister of finance, but also because all measures and development policies of the Croatian Government are directly reflected in the operation and functioning of the HBOR. In particular, when we talk about 2010, we are talking about the year of the major economic crisis and recession in Croatia, that is the year in which the world economy is slowly calming down in these crisis elements, but Croatia still does not. In Croatia, it is therefore important that all economic policy components see 9 steps forward and try to formulate and implement such a development policy that will not only put out the fires, but also open up some new opportunities for the economy in the Republic of Croatia to give room for development, i.e. for new development steps, which will then, in the medium and long term, cause positive shifts. In this it is all the philosophy of the money paid, so that today something that will happen positively in the business process and economic development will just happen. The HBOR report in front of us is quite technical, in many details exhaustively, but as well as many other reports of public institutions in the Republic of Croatia hides what is most interesting. So all it has to do is say that HBOR was supposed to be a very important lever, a very important medium in the implementation of economic policy and so on. the economic development programme, and through those famous elements A, B and C, however, none of those three HBOR failed because the government failed to make any major shifts. We can be fascinated by the amount of 6.6 billion statisticalally important data from thousands and 600 committees that have been placed on, but we should see who is among those who have received HBOR funds, by which criteria, and whether the criteria have always been strictly professional and economical, or perhaps there have been policies. I also learn from the circles of the nearby HBOR administrations that for the first time, the members of the Supervisory Board were divided in a vote on concrete decisions in the placement of funds. After a long time, there were no unanimous decisions. What's this about? It would be good and it would be correct if the board president told us that too, because it's about amounts that are normally 50 or 100 million kuna. Where did HBOR intervene and why, and what are the effects of that? Let's say one of the companies that HBOR placed funds on is Notorna Medikol, 50 million kuna. One of the companies in which HBOR placed about 100 million kuna is KIO Orahovica, a company that has failed. One of the companies that HBOR also placed 100 million kunas is the PAN paper confection, i.e. the paper industry. It's a company that owes the state almost, and everyone else, about a billion kuna. One of the companies with whom HBOR intervened was also A SURVEILLANCE in the course of the "SPICE" affair at the time when the claims came and when SUPPORT couldn't serve it on its own. Of course, all this information if it's surfaced can be the subject of manipulation. That is why it is the job of the president of the administration to warn us of these cases and to tell us why the funds were placed, how the risks were controlled and how they are managed today. Because from this part of the HBOR report that speaks about risk control, or risk management, we don't see the most important things at all. In addition to the fact that I don't have any information on which companies are placed, we don't see the structure, the quality and the cost of the claim. We don't see at all what kind of payment has been paid from HBOR funds so far. This is very important information, without this information we cannot really objectively assess the functionality and effects of the HBOR. And what we have been talking about for several years, the HBOR must fight for an active role in raising awareness of the need for the engagement of funds from pre-accession and tomorrow's EU Structural Funds. What's been done in the last three years? When an analysis is done, we'll see that it's done very little. For the third year in a row, we warn that pre-accession funds can't be cheaper in the world, there's no way you can find cheaper funds because for the 15 invested, you get another 85. The funds we've placed through HBOR in the engagement of these funds are almost insignificant. HBOR worked hard in 2010 and was heading in this direction, but so shy and so small that the real effects of our indolent behaviour on these options will only be seen in 2013 and 2014. We've been talking for three years. It's almost the last hour. And now it's almost pointless to say it's the last hour because the last hour is over. And what about the willingness of the Croatian economy to withdraw funds from structural funds? And that's one of the topics that we need to open, absorb, and put all our strengths to rest. HNS President Mrs. Vesna Pusic usually says by popularising the idea of 100 people for 100 projects. And we actually need a few hundred people to work on the engagement of funds from European funds. What did we do in that sense? Here, today is a historic day. If God does, today at noon we will learn the important news that Croatia is ready to conclude negotiations and sign the Accession Treaty. Today, right today. It's a good day, but I wish we'd met him with something more ready, something more responsible and something smarter. We'd have... to rejoice with and for more reasons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We hope that the HBOR will look at, strengthen and fight for its part of responsibility in this story because it cannot and must not only be the transmission of the current economic government but also the one who sees something further from it, which is more directly in the problem of the lack of funds in the capital market, which is more directly in the story of the possibility of the involvement of additional funds. That's what we expect from HBOR. In this respect, the HNS-HSU club will refrain from this year's HBOR report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u74984	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u74985	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Board. I'd like to say right away at the beginning that the HDZ Club will support this report. And on the trail of what my predecessor said, there is one loan that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has raised in HBOR from a billion-and-a-half kuna for reconstruction. It's a very interesting way and a model of his payment and would be given a lot to discuss. But if this is how we talk about the placement of funds when we look at a little bit of this balance inside, everything can be read, everything can be seen. And it can be seen how HBOR's policy has followed the economic crisis over the past three years and how it has tried to react with all the instruments available to it. And that's exactly what you see from mathematical indicators. And I'm going to try to elaborate them because I'm glad that the SDP club has discussed it like this and a colleague of Zgrebec who is already a long series of board members of the HBOR Supervisory Board and is certainly directed to how the HBOR works, but if we talk about the HBOR report then we need to talk about a few things. And these things simply lie to each other and then we'll get one real picture of HBOR, of course, with the effort of all of us to make this bank what it really should, from the bank that initially served to practically put an end to the fire in a war destroyed by Croatia to a bank that practically completely converted and transferred into an export investment bank in 2008. And these are facts that no one can dispute. And when you look at numerical, mathematical indicators of how much money the exporters received, not only for export but for export insurance to countries where Croatian exporters first appeared then you will see that at that time HBOR was practically the only support for exporters. In the year when interest rates grew dizzy, in business banks, in years when credit activity practically died HBOR, HBOR Management and HBOR Supervisory Board decided to keep interest levels at that level which was in years of historically low interest rates and you can see only two indicators. I'm saying, reports should be readable. The numbers need to be recognized, and then you'll get it all figured out. So when you look on one side of HBOR's income, which is most of the income from interest, one very small part of the income is from compensation, and when you look at expenditures, and the biggest part of the expenditure is when you subtract those functional expenditures related to interest expenses then you'll see what's been going on and what's been the risk for the past two years. I'm saying, reports should be readable. And you will see that the amount of interest on which HBOR was in debt on the international financial market and the cost of interest has grown unfortunately because such a situation is on the financial market, while the income from interest has stagnated or fallen for the simple reason that HBOR decided to keep the interest rate at the level at which it was in the previous years. What was done in 2009 and 2010 in a general drought on the global financial market when it was practically impossible to borrow, when several months later and much more financially and stronger states, states with higher credit ratings of the Republic of Croatia failed to place bonds, we managed to place, so the state and HBOR once towards global institutional banks. And if you have carefully listened to the report of the President of the Administration, then you will see that in those crisis years when it was practically impossible to get to capital that the HBOR managed to obtain a large amount of credit with institutional banks but the amount of credit that was intended for a particular group of entrepreneurs, so small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, amounts that were intended for infrastructure, so loans that could not be placed, I want to do this or I want to do that. But the creditor simply obliged HBOR that these assets could be placed in that as well. So, with a low credit rate in place, with these loans, with the help of exporters, there may be some mention today of 18 programmes that the HBOR has along with the ministries where there are also a lot of funds placed and make sure that many entrepreneurs would have a lot of problems if it hadn't been for these problems through HBOR. Because I repeat look at which credit placement was through business banks then you will see that he practically died, the business banks were placed in crisis years especially in 2009 and the first half of 2010 exclusively credits to safe committees, they simply knew what the quality of credits that were placed in previous years, which of these companies would find themselves in trouble and that first-class placements would become risk-based placements, so they simply went to one of the ZHPs in 20010. Now I'd like to look back on the government model A and model B program. It's not good to give a flat-rate rating, for the simple reason that during Model A, in 2010, 2.5 billion kuna credits were placed. Now, we can say that's a lot or a little. However, when you take a closer look at how auctions were going, how many banks were reported to individual auctions, which amounted to those auctions that the banks requested, and the banks were looking at the basis of the demands of their committees, then you will see that according to this model A that exclusively placed funds for reverse funds was not much more required than these 2.5 billion kunas. There were no more demands the banks made, so that went past the bank filter. These are simply facts that we can polymerize as much as we want, but the number is the number and you can't change it. Model B. reveals us, and I was saying this here when we went into changing the law and changing Model A. and B. into Model A+ and B+, unfortunately one painful truth is very, very low capitalization of Croatian companies. It's simply a fact, and whoever is staring at that fact doesn't need to be fooled that these companies will get credit from any business bank tomorrow because they simply can't pawn anything for that loan. And that was the reason in the economic crisis era. First, many did not want to risk investment, but unfortunately most of those were who could not meet the conditions for business banks to run their projects at auctions for this model B. That was the basic reason why Model B. unfortunately ended up as he ended up, the Model C. practically didn't go through HBOR at all. Model C is completely different. It's about companies that have been in difficulties for many years, companies that had to be ready to restructure first. Therefore, it is ready to be restructured, so that the state, with its claims to them, will enter into capital or ownership and thus try to save these companies. However, when you look at how many requests have come, then you will see that it is unfortunately a minor number. So, what we can say is that all these years the HBOR has been able to manage HBOR's professional and quality management, all these years even in crisis years, above, in fact within the real possibilities of the HBOR, as much as they could, but when we talk about that HBOR needed this or that, let's not forget all of us for Europe when it suits us but we also have the Support Act, which was adopted in this House which clearly defines both the interest rates and everything, so it has to meet certain criteria exactly. Therefore, no one can say now that the state in the HBOR budget will give the money and the HBOR will place loans one way or another. Finance always has its own rules and you have to stick to the rules, one is a policy and the financial rules are something else, so when we talk about the government doing this or what we can say that the government was only able to do in accordance with the Support Act, otherwise the Competition Protection Agency would react if that were the case. Just remember the stories of the shipyards and the guarantees for the shipyards in the years when it was breaking, HBOR was one of the ones that gave loans to the shipyards. Pre-accession funds, we blame someone else again, and we're looking for a mistake somewhere else. In order to implement the pre-accession programme, you must have quality programs, without it it is simply impossible to get money from the European Union. Those who know that, know that, those who do not know then politicise it, but the truth is also that all these years, Croatia has had the highest percentage of pre-accession funds that moved over 90%. And that's what Vandoren said at the 10th month, and that's just the fact that some of them are lurking on them or they don't fit because they can't fight politically, but they're facts. Just like the fact that HBOR is the first bank in Croatia to engage with the model that those who wish to participate and compete for pre-accession funds to provide them with loans so that they can finance their component. In this respect, both the HBOR and the HBOR Supervisory Board have been very aware of the two facts for a simple reason for the past two years. What I said about model B, therefore the low capitalisation of our companies because simply which will have quality programmes will not have the means that they finance with their component the part they should get from the funds to get EU funds and local self-government units. So the Budgetation Act clearly states that loans that units of local self-government will receive as their own funds in projects that will run according to European funds will not be raised in total by units of local self-government. So I can say that the HDZ Club will support this report. I'm glad there's an institution around which two clubs have been agreeing for years to work well and correctly so that maybe better, but that's always the way it is in life, but I say I should be happy to cut down a billion and a half million bonds from 2002 to rebuild so that we can see who was getting those loans if some things are already secluded. And secondly, I would very much like for the Croatian public to read the report on certain loans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u74986	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First up is Madam Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u74987	Thank you, Your Honor. President of the HBOR Board, colleagues and colleagues. As we all know HBOR was founded in 1992 by a special law like the Croatian Credit Bank for Reconstruction. In 1995, she was named today, and she was given this development component along with the renovation. So in the 1990s, the bank renewed Croatia's war-devased war, and today it is restoring Croatia devastated by the economic crisis and inequity. And of course, the main foundation is the most valuable... Croatian economy for Croatian exporters. We know that HBOR also represented a very significant lever to the government's economic recovery programme through two models. The model A where HBOR provides 40% of credit assets and business banks 60%. Through this model, 589 loans totalling €2.5 billion were granted to entrepreneurs during 2010. It is very indicative that even these sums were used by entrepreneurs to settle obligations to suppliers. The second HBOR model in the government's economic recovery programme is the known model B, which consists of issuing guarantees on behalf of and on behalf of the State for the purpose of covering the part of the risk of business bank credits, so that model has completely failed since only one guarantee of one million-and-a-half kuna was granted in 2010. By saying that in 2009, no guarantee was actually granted. The reason for this B-submergement, as we just heard from Mr. Shucker, is that the low captalization of Croatian companies is low. I can't really understand what the government is surprised and that, when formulating this model, it didn't take care that a huge number of Croatian companies were founded with 20 thousand kunas, and before that, only 8 thousand kunas. And now we are surprised at the low capitalisation and inability to guarantee Croatian companies to obtain these guarantees. In 19 years, the existence of HBOR proved to be a truly reliable foundation for economic operators primarily by adapting his business policy to the needs of the economy. We heard from the president of HBOR's administration that interest rates were reduced and periods were extended, i.e. credit repayment deadlines. During that period of 19 years, HBOR approved loans in the form of guarantees of 91 billion kuna. I am truly pleasantly surprised to hear this amount today, with about half of this amount being granted to exporters. Therefore, any other HBOR kuna ended in exports, which we can indeed say HBOR also confirmed as a successful export bank that provided Croatian exporters with conditions for equal competition on the international market. And in this current time of economic crisis, exports are a priority area of HBOR's support for Croatian entrepreneurs in all phases of the export cycle from preparation and production to export to the provision of export transactions and the issuance of procreation bank guarantees. Thus, in 2010, the exporters were placed a total of 493 loans of 3.7 billion kuna. If we know that the total value of a thousand 606 loans HBOR granted to Croatian entrepreneurs in 2010 was 6.6 billion kuna, then it turns out that 55% of these amounts were granted to exporters. The truths, however, need to be said that in 2009 credit appropriations were therefore lower because in 2009 there were as many as 550 loans and the total amount was 4.2 billion kuna. Therefore, at that time, the exporters were granted as much as 68% of the total funds in that year. What personally causes concern for me, and I think that it should also be equal to the other of the 6.6 billion kuna loans allocated in 2010 only 1.4 billion are focused on long-term investments, and even 5.2 billion or almost 80% of the total value of the paid loans went to finance crafts assets, and that is, at the same time, the best but most terrible indicator of how much the financial crisis has exhausted the Croatian economy as the extent of the individence in Croatia and how much the hunger of Croatian entrepreneurs for craft capital is, at the same time, its dependence on other people's resources. The funding can indeed be concluded in this way by liquid liquidity, and investments are currently in Croatia in a completely different plan. What should certainly be commended is that the HBOR continuously introduces new lending programmes, with five new programmes being introduced in 2010 and together with these new HBOR programmes currently implementing a total of 24 business lending programmes, with 11 programmes intended solely for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. A very important fact to stress is that all these HBOR programmes have been done by state-owned unchanged lending conditions as they were before this economic and financial crisis. This succeeded primarily thanks to the fact that he himself managed to obtain credit from financial institutions and the capital market under unchanged conditions which I must stress is primarily proof of the high credit rating that HBOR enjoys in the financial environment. Of course, it should not be forgotten that the borrowing of HBOR abroad and a significant item in the structure of the total foreign debt of the Republic of Croatia, which reached 46.5 billion euros at the end of 2010. What I was able to read from the 2010 Croatian National Bank report is not visible what the absolute amount of HBOR debt in this total ino debt is, but what can be read is that the balance of HBOR debt in 2010 actually slightly decreased. Therefore, HBOR did not contribute to the increase of the Croatian ino of debt. What is not in this HBOR report is data on HBOR's risks related to the return of placed funds and it would be good to have this in the future in order to actually get a round picture. And finally, I have to mention what the SDP Club warns about every year, and we also formulated that in the proposal for a decision on the recapitalisation of HBOR, which is unfortunately waiting somewhere at the beginning of the agenda to come to a parliamentary debate. It is a pity that by now, even after 19 years of state existence has not yet fully paid HBOR the core capital of 7 billion kuna, since only 4.7 billion have been paid so far, and the obligation is another 2.3 billion. It's obviously going to take another decade to pay off all that capital. And this problem, I must say, has been recognised and spoken of by Croatian exporters at the recent convention and their message was that for further export growth, the HBOR should be strengthened through an increase in the core capital needed to secure competitive loans with significantly lower interest rates and longer repayment periods. They mentioned deadlines from 15 to 25 years old. So, if the government already does not respect the SDP club's proposal, then it would be good to listen to Croatian exporters. Why would it be good and useful to listen, because those who contribute to the Croatian economy with 38% of gross domestic product, hire half of all employees in the economy, earn more than twice the profits of all other companies, and use capital 30% more efficiently than the rest of the economy. If those aren't the arguments the government would have to listen to the exporters for, then I don't know what they are. And speaking of exporters and their convention, then I cannot take the opportunity to say that at the convention, as many as three companies from Međimurje were named the best exporters in 2010, so they are LPT, SESTAN-BUSCH and Eko Međimurje and this is not an accident, because it is precisely Međimurje County that is one of the few Croatian counties that has a positive external and trade balance. Therefore, all its imports are covered by exports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u74988	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Davor Huška, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u74989	Thank you, Mr. President. President-in-Office of the HBOR Board with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I think that today we will be unique in our discussions and that it is good that we all positively assess the business of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development because indeed such positive and affirmative assessments this institution deserves financially and financially. We heard the opening in the presentation of the president of the Croatian Bank of Reconstruction and Development Board, which pointed out that during the 2010 reporting period we are discussing, HBOR made great efforts to ensure sufficient resources for the purposes of lending to the Croatian economy. The consequences of the financial and economic crisis have, unfortunately, affected the reduced capacity and needs of entrepreneurs for new investments but also increased the need to ensure quality as cheap as possible, which is more accessible to maintain current liquidity means short-term credit crafts. In 2010, the HBOR focused most of its credit activity on financing crafts and thus helped overcome the liquidity problem. During 2010, a total of 1606 loans were granted, with 34% more than in the previous 2009 amounting to €6.62 billion, representing an increase of 7.5% compared to the previous year. HBOR's strongest and most important support was provided to Croatian exporters, the most vital part of Croatian society through a programme of export preparation where 406 loans amounting to nearly 3 billion kuna were granted. For the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises, 447 loans amounting to billions and 100 kuna were granted, which is 12% higher than in 2009. Only 3% of HBOR's placements are credits for municipal infrastructure, and all other employees are invested in entrepreneurship in categories of micro, small and medium enterprises that focus on the Croatian Bank's programme for renovation and development. Significant results have also been achieved under export claim collection schemes and in 2010 HBOR provided 2.14 billion kuna of export transactions. Exports are secured for 1200 Croatian companies in all parts of the world. In 2010, HBOR made total revenues of 921 million kuna, expenditure of 803 million kuna, which gives a positive financial result of 118 million kuna. In accordance with the Act on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the overall profit of the HBOR reporting period is allocated to reserves. HBOR's lending funds ensured that we heard through contracts with different European banks and borrowing on the domestic financial market. It should be noted that it is during 2010. HBOR adapted the conditions of lending precisely to the emerging economic and financial problems in Croatia in such a way that five new credit programmes were introduced, of which for me are the most important exactly liquidity lending programmes, crafts, export lending programmes and a particularly interesting start-up of EU funds through IPARD measure 301, IPARD measure 302. Furthermore, there is not only the retention of interest at the same level as 2009 but also the reduction of interest on individual... Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also adapted in individual programmes and payment deadlines in such a way that it is extended and that credit payments to Croatian entrepreneurs are facilitated. In particular, I would like to say a few words about these programmes where HBOR accesss European funds or crediting pre-accession programmes. This is one category that will certainly live in business, commercial banks, but especially for us, in future times, in a far larger, more significant amount and in a higher percentage of total HBOR placements. We all know well both entrepreneurs and units of local self-government and all others who claim to be European Union funds through pre-accession funds in the near future of the Structural Funds that it is mainly projects that entrepreneurs, farmers, cities, municipalities, all others who are running for these programmes have to fully finance in order to get their funds back, of course, when it is determined that the programme is implemented in accordance with the conditions set out. Unfortunately, these funds do not have entrepreneurs or units of local self-government, and we need our domestic, strong bank that can, under favourable conditions, help to secure funds for pre-accession programmes, structural funds in the perspective so as not to fail programmes that experience a positive assessment because of the fact that any entrepreneurs, any cities, or municipalities cannot provide advance funding for these programmes or can provide them with high interest and strict conditions of commercial banks in our country's financial market. I believe that this category of placement in HBOR will live to a greater extent. I look forward to this because the conditions offered by HBOR to all credit and units of local and business and farmers are far more acceptable on today's financial market in Croatia than those offered by credit and commercial banks in the Republic of Croatia. And in the end, I'll say what I've been saying for the past two years when I've been commenting and discussing the HBOR reports. One extraordinary openness and availability of HBOR employees at all levels is present to members of administrations who are all interested, entrepreneurs, representatives of cities, units of local, regional self-government literally available either on a telephone call or on a call to appear on the ground, to present programmes offered by the HBOR, and to actually play one advisory role not only of banking interest in achieving as much as possible profit as possible than just one advisory role towards interested commissioners for different credits, to guide the best possible programme offered in HBOR, to explain to the details of the conditions of credit, to help literally prepare business plans for the provision of these credit funds, and this gives a very positive picture of our bank for reconstruction, development on the ground among all credit users. I hope and believe, knowing the management and the team that works at HBOR, that this relationship will continue in both future and heart, I wish you a lot of success in future work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u74990	Thank you. We have replicas. The first is Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u74991	Thank you very much. However, I would like to point out other than what you have stated that HBOR's favourable credit investments in economic purposes on the islands in 2010 increased compared to 2009 and that they amounted to nearly 368 million kuna, indicating that despite the recession and the difficult conditions of business, the economy on the islands manages to maintain the level of necessary investments in order to survive and, of course, continue to develop activities. And I would like to point out that it is from 2004 to 2010. HBOR invested in island projects, so both natural and legal persons invested a total of 2.9 billion kuna, and most of these funds were invested in a tourism sector that accounts for over 60%. The rest were credits for restructuring economic operators on islands, payment loans and preparation of export operations, credits for island infrastructure and units of local and regional self-government, and two fishing fleet recovery programmes and an incentive for success. And I certainly want to welcome this openness, too, means HBOR for local self-government units where access is open and in this way through IPA. I will, of course, support this report because of its scope and a good relationship with the islands, towards the Croatian islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u74992	Thank you. Mr. Davor Huška's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u74993	Thank you, colleagues. You have touched the areas and Croatian regions where you come from, of course, but I can confirm to you that this is an equally good and correct relationship between HBOR and us in Slavonia, where regional conferences really come to meet everyone who needs information about any credits because they are happy to respond to different meetings, round tables, lectures, presentations both in counties and in cities and in entrepreneurship centres where we manage to bring together interested users precisely these credits because these are the most favourable credit assets that stand today and in recent years and today for Croatian entrepreneurs, Croatian cities and municipalities. Never did the HBOR thank God make a difference between Dalmatia and Slavonia, and I believe that it will also be in the future, that it will equally, evenly help, lend all parts of our Beautiful One.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u74994	Thank you. We have a line further Mr. Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u74995	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you just said that, and since we're both coming from Požega-Slavon County, I'm really looking forward to telling all the best about HBOR who's really following the economy. We are aware that at this point in time the global and economic crisis has indeed left a great mark on the economy, and here I particularly want to apostrophe that it is the HBOR that recognized in these most difficult times, so the global and economic crisis is the economy. In Požega-Slavon County it is very important to say that we do, because Požega-Slavon County has the best results in Croatia regarding exports, and it has precisely because export-related companies had HBOR support. And that's why just by seizing out 3 billion and 650 million funds for exports is exactly proof that this particular bank is in the hardest of times, I'm not going to talk about commercial banks right now, but we know that they were reluctant to give funds whether they had them or not, and HBOR was just finding ways to help the economy and how. The economy in Požega-Slavon County survived precisely thanks to the loans and support of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, because if it hadn't been for that, there would have been no good results. And that is why I would like to highlight and commend the Croatian bank here, and also to congratulate the President on the inclusion of the European Banks' Association in the lead place, which is an extraordinary pleasure to me and we can all be proud together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u74996	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u74997	Thank you. Dear Lucić, we come from the same county, from the same problems and we have the same thinking and assessment of HBOR as one of the banks that exactly according to the areas I will say special state care, but I come from the Western Slavonia area, the war of the lost area where HBOR under particularly favourable conditions, means even more favourable than in other parts of Croatia allows farmers, entrepreneurs, cities and municipalities to reach the necessary credit funds. That's not yesterday. Since 15, 20 years ago, already after the end of the Homeland War the first loans, the first employees who were in Pakrac, Lipik, Okucani, Novska were just out of HBOR funds, under extremely favourable conditions with one more acceptable... the period, with an acceptable interest rate, with the possibility of reprogramming, with minimum conditions for the means of ensuring the repayment of loans, which unfortunately was never the case with commercial banks, but they had never had a special feeling for areas of special state care in the Republic of Croatia, where real estate is worth far less as a means of insurance than in the more developed parts of Croatia, while HBOR had, of course, all the risks he took as well as other banks, with all the means of ensuring a special feeling for the areas of special state care, the areas suffered in the war today are also more favourable for these areas than in other parts of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there is one big difference between HBOR and other business banks in Croatia, and we hope that until we achieve even development of our entire beautiful, such conditions continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u74998	Another replica, Mr. Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u74999	Thank you very much. Comrade Huška, you said in your discussion that HBOR mainly directed its credit activity to small and medium-sized enterprises. Well, lucky that's how he did it, because there's no developed economy without developed small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Let's just take the American economy that is crawling with multinational companies, but 85% of the total economic activity makes up exactly small companies with total income of up to $2 million. HBOR is the only financial institution that directed its credit activity exclusively to small and medium-sized enterprises, and exports. As for business banks in Croatia and their credit conditions, an entrepreneur in Croatia could not produce a hundred kilograms of tomatoes, let alone make goods worth more serious. Business banks in the Republic of Croatia use the entire savings and economy to lend hundreds of companies in Croatia and their daughters companies, and the situation is so alarming, and the economic situation would have been even more difficult if it hadn't been for HBOR, that we should, except HBOR, still under urgent Croatian national banks in order to achieve Croatian national economic interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u75000	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Hushka.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u75001	Thank you. Dear Marić, we are on the same track and the way, and thank God we are Croatian thinking, and there is a positive moment with HBOR which is a really stable bank and we have already said a lot about it. I am pleased to return and to the great steps of the Croatian Post Office Bank to the financial market in Croatia, new banking products that the Croatian Post Bank offers to both citizens and entrepreneurs, of course under conditions that commercial banks have, but much more affordable, much more accessible for different categories of entrepreneurs and citizens. HBOR has done a big job, precisely with micro-small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and we know that more than 90% of the Croatian economy is in these categories, is not its budget, has not directed its credit potential into several large ones, which might be commercially looking at the profits more cost-effective and safer, but at a large number of small placements that it monitors and where it tracks a large number of craftsmen, family agricultural economies, micro-small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. This is one quality that the HBOR has, and I hope that there will be Croatian Post Bank programmes on that road, which is taking great steps back to the financial market of the Republic of Croatia, and with HBOR grows into a leading Croatian bank with no foreign capital available to Croatian and Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u75002	Thank you. Here in 10 and 52 is the time to sign up for 10 minutes. We have two more, or what, three discussions. First Mr. Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u75003	Thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable President of the Board, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Parliamentarians and MPs. Here is the annual report of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2010, which I will accept as the majority of my colleagues and clubs have come forward. It is mentioned here that two special sentences about how it is a development bank, and how it is an exit bank, are both true, and that I share the opinion of my colleagues when I say that this very function of development and export is important, very important and necessary both in the situation in which Croatian agriculture is located today, and I certainly believe in the time to come. In the debate, someone made it clear that a good part of the funds in 2010 was placed precisely for trade funds, in order to incentivise Croatia's economy in the context of crafts to bridge liquidity, i.e. indifference, and certainly that I also commend it because it was very important to maintain the sustainability and employment of jobs, and clearly and overall, above all, production. I believe that in 2011 it will already bring about some absolutely new shifts and that this ratio of Croatian bank placements in relations between investment funds and trade funds will, above all, change significantly for liquidity because there are some such indications already in place. Of the principles here, it is also mentioned that the HBOR has been very actively involved in EU pre-accession programmes and, in part, there may have been criticism that it may have been engaged more actively. Clearly every major engagement is necessary and good, but in order for these programs to be determined above all is necessary... the entrepreneurs themselves, as well as all those involved in the possible acquisition of funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which actually means that when we say we have a good programme related to the possible withdrawal of funds from the EU it is certainly not enough for itself, but that programme means clearly defined project tasks of project documentation, pre-conditions in spatial and planning documents, a clear vision and strategy of those who want to invest and only if all these conditions are met then it is clear that the bank can also be included in this funding project itself. It is clear if it is considered to be quality and positive. When we talk about the bank itself, it is truly adorned by something called corporate governance, which means that the HBOR systematically monitors the best practice in corporate governance and builds it into its business according to the principles and principles of good banking business. This shall be applied in particular through the principle of the public of the bank, through its supervisory board, through management, through the internal control system, and certainly through the co-operation of the administration and the supervisory board of the HBOR itself. We have already said ourselves that in 2010, we were able to see that the HBOR approved over 1,600 loans in amounts greater than 6,5 billion kuna and represents an increase of 7.5% compared to the previous year. And therefore, he is pleased that the most funds are granted for self-borrowing exports, almost 50% of the funds or over 3 billion kunas. Which again proves that HBOR is an export bank. The second large segment also refers to the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises amounting to more than 1.1 billion kuna. It is clear that middle and small entrepreneurship is the backbone of society, the backbone of the economy and should also commend the engagement of funds precisely for this development. Clearly, the fact that HBOR today has 24 credit programmes, 24 of which almost 50% is intended primarily for small and medium-sized enterprises, which alone speaks enough for itself and the determination of the bank itself. In January 2010, the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision on measures for economic recovery and development, and in whose implementation of the HBOR played a significant role, which, just to repeat, was in the context of these measures implementing a programme of credit for crafts and guarantees on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Croatia for cover and risk parts of credit ratings to banks. What you might say, and not too much longer, is therefore new lending programmes and the HBOR is systematically adapted to requirements both through changes in existing credit conditions and the introduction of new products, and all with the aim of fostering the development of entrepreneurship. The result of such business practice resulted in 5 new programmes during 2010, which are a programme for micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, IPARD development of rural infrastructure, IPARD development in rural and economic activities, crafts model A and model B, which certainly speaks enough about making HBOR clearly, affirmatively and professionally involved both in the development of small enterprises and in the projected development of exports themselves. With everything in mind, I am therefore pleased that the largest number of MPs supported the 2010 report, and so will I.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u75004	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u75005	Well, here's the thing, after all, I have to join in the praises of my fellow Turk HBOR not only because they helped the economy at these moments when it was necessary for employers to continue their work and invest, but also for the sake of a Samobor defense cooperative who did a miracle thanks to HBOR. So with HBOR's loan, it seems to me like about a million kuna they managed to activate the company that sent the workers to wait and made them a big press. They were able to hire defenders from all over Croatia who now work together with them a big job and hire about 7 people. So, with the little money, I just wanted to give an example, you can make an extremely big one. And here I say, I join the praises and thank the HBOR precisely for understanding and for these at least, but also most valuable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u75006	Thank you. It's Mr. Jerko Roshin's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u75007	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Kovac and his associate, colleagues and colleagues. It is the end of the debate, and in fact nothing of particular importance should be discussed about the HBOR Report, however, that in Croatia not only recently but also otherwise there is a lot of bad news, or too little good news, I would like to apostrophe the HBOR report in this one positive sense, in a way that things that happen quietly, peacefully, neatly, professionally, can also happen. Given the patience of the vote, nervousness in the Assembly and a lot of votes, I will give up further debate, with just one compliment and a congratulations on the report and work of the HBOR and believing that next year they will be given even more space so that they can have more clients and business results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u75008	Thank you. And as the last Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u75009	Dear Mr. President, dear Mr. Kovac and associate. It is certainly pleasant to read such a report to a team more that it is a report in continuity, to me as a scientist it is particularly nice because on the basis of past data you can extrapolate future trends, therefore there is no doubt that HBOR will probably fulfill its function in the future and finance the Croatian economy as it has done so so far. I'd like to say just a few words about your main activities listed in the report where environmental protection and energy efficiency projects, renewable energy sources are also mentioned. As well as ensuring the export of non-market risk Croatian goods and services, these two points relate essentially to science, the development of research and quality infrastructure. I personally hope that, in future, the HBOR will gain confidence from the competent authorities to slightly increase the risk margin of its investments, ultimately, the Republic of Croatia has defined itself as a market economy and it is clear that there is no development of the capital without it, as well as in physics. It should actually consider a broader mechanism for the government to decide to increase the risk margin and various funds so that they could invest not only in the bond, share capital market, etc., but also directly finance research and development related to science and thus accelerate the transfer of knowledge from the scientific academic community to the economy. In this way science will also perform its economic function, will not be barren in terms of encouraging and increasing the gross social product. On the other hand, both banks would speed up these processes by their activities and hope that you will try to figure out how to strengthen the HBOR with its activity. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u75010	Thank you. And finally on behalf of the promoter, President of the Board, Mr Anton Kovacev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u75011	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here, I will try to answer the questions that have been asked, but first of all I thank you for your discussions, but also for the criticism, as well as the praises, suggestions and some solutions, we have written everything down and we will work through our future work on the welfare of the Croatian economy to respect and to improve or strengthen. As for the questions asked by Mr Beus, therefore, the terms of credit approval are purely professional, banking, if not for all these 19 years the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development would not always get a positive opinion from international auditors and rating agencies. At the beginning of this report, I said that the international auditor DeLoit had assessed these financial reports not only positively but had no objection, nor that written remark, and after each auditor, auditors held talks with the bank administration and those less objections or objections say oral administration. In this conversation, the independent international auditor did not make any oral remarks this year. So, through our current activity, we have approved over 43,000 and 700 loans. You mentioned four individual loans that we approved, we can extract from this 43,000 loans that can't be returned properly for different reasons or not the investment plan, or the project took place as the entrepreneur intended, and on the basis of the investment programme and we and the Business Bank have approved the loan. I must first say that these four cases that you mentioned over 70% of these approved loans are through business banks, rated not only by HBOR but also by business banks, and that certainly the vast majority of these funds will, despite some difficulties, return to HBOR. I said in the report but again I will point out that for all placements therefore, for those projects where economic operators have some difficulties or where we implemented the reprogramme, in 2010, we booked an additional 110 million kuna and can immediately show the quality of the portfolio that we had in 2010 classified by A. is 93% of the classification of our loans under B. is only 7%, and under C. none. So, for all those loans that could be classified in C. we secured funds reservations, either in that 2010 report or in the previous years. We all know that the prescribed capital ratio of the Croatian National Bank is 12%. In 2009, in HBOR, that capital ratio was 62% and in 2010 despite the crisis and difficulties in which the economy is 63.5% is significantly above the prescribed capital ratio. As for pre-accession funds, we participated and credited through the SAPARD. I didn't talk about it because it wasn't in 2010 but in the previous year. Namely in 2010 and now in 2011 is the IPARD extension of the SAPARD Fund. As part of the SAPARD HBOR pre-accession fund, 135 million kuna was approved and that is over 70% of the total SAPARD funds used. So far, by the end of April, we have better approved 112 million kuna and that is over 72% of the total funds granted through SAPARD. As regards external debt and the participation of the HBOR in external debt, I must point out that the funds provided by the HBOR abroad through either international financial institutions, whether by commercial debt or bond issue, are not intended for single use, therefore intended for development, are not invested in consumption or something that is not productive but are invested in the Croatian economy. Therefore, the multiple benefit for Croatia's economies and Croatia's state as a whole, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it never happened that HBOR's obligation to abroad had been returned by anyone other than HBOR. So we've never burdened the state budget or the state with our return ino obligations before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-10-0.u75012	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide later. We move to the Annual Financial Report of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2010. Proposer of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting in favour of the decision to confirm the Annual Financial Reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2010. Please include and vote on the Decision to confirm the HBOR Annual Financial Report. The result? This year's financial report by the Croatian Bank was accepted by 99 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against. So, most of the votes. And while we are still here, I am announcing the continuation of session 15 with the agenda point of the proposal for a resolution on diabetes, so 15 at 9.30 a.m. of the Committee on Health and Social Care. And now I'd... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
