ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71178	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, on behalf of the HDSSB Club, I pray for a 15-minute break so that the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament on the 19th day since the announcement of the verdict to the Croatian generals Gotovina and Markac are finally here and here in our highest representative and legislative body something to talk about. So I'm asking for a break of 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71179	Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71180	I'd like to ask you for a five-minute break for the HDZ Club for the same theme.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71181	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71182	And the IDS club means it joins these requirements of the HDSSB and HDZ club, so we're looking for a break from these proposed 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71183	Thank you. I'm setting a 10 minute break, and we're continuing session at 9:00 and 50 minutes. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, continue the session. The word has on behalf of the club Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71185	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, it is a shame that 19 days since the sentence of the condemning Hague verdict to Croatian Generals Anti Gotovina and Mladen Markac, the Croatian Parliament has not spoken a word of this verdict and its terrible findings. On the contrary, today’s session was to continue as if nothing had happened. And after that 15th April 2011, for Croatia, nothing is and will be the same. On that day, not only the Croatian heroes Generals Ante Gotovina and Mladen Markac were condemned, that day all Croatian defenders, the entire Homeland War and the entire Croatian people were convicted. The winners of the war were defeated in peace, and for the first time in history of war history history, history is written by losers, not winners. The Hague verdict speaks of a joint criminal enterprise and there is a joint criminal enterprise, but not one and one publicly announced by The Hague court, but one that has never been made public by anyone. A joint criminal anti-Croatian venture aimed at criminalising the Homeland War as the basis for the creation of an independent, independent and sovereign Croatian state. The anti-Croatian joint criminal enterprise was particularly intense after the death of the first Croatian president, Dr. Francis Tudjman. The joint criminal anti-Croatian venture was attended and participated not only in various pro-Serbian international organisations and numerous anti-Croatian so-called ". NGOs within Croatia through numerous international powers that Croatia never wanted but unfortunately the highest representatives of the Croatian government both individuals and institutions. The basis of the creation of a modern, independent Croatian state is the Homeland War. In The Hague court's verdict, the final victory military operation "Storm" has been marked as a joint criminal enterprise and the verdict has prompted and prompted a justifiable embezzlement of every Croat. But the Croatian government is scolding at the findings of the Hague verdict, while at the same time silent about the state's existence to the dangerous findings of another political verdict. But the ruling was brought not by The Hague court but by the Croatian court. And in that verdict, the Homeland War was also marked in a special way by a criminal enterprise. In that verdict, the Croatian judiciary claimed not only that during '91. In the year, Croatia was not an independent state and that ZNG and HV were illegal military formations, i.e. paramilitary, but that in those years the only legal units were JNA units, that there was no aggression between Serbia and Montenegro on Croatia, but that it was an international war conflict. But what is even scarier is that the Croatian court characterised in that verdict the National Guard Assembly and the Croatian Army as a criminal organisation. According to the USKOK and Criminal Law, the status of the Croatian Crown Witness can only be given to a member of the criminal organisation, and the status of a crown witness in that judgment has been assigned to a person who was not a member of any other organisation at the time, but only to the ZNG, or HV. Yes, it is clear that the crown witness is Krunoslav Fehir, and the verdict of Croatia's General Branimir Glavas. The Hague court named the end of the Homeland War a criminal enterprise by political verdict of Anti Gotovina and Mladen Markac. The Croatian court marked Branimir Glavas's start of the Homeland War as a criminal enterprise by a political verdict. This marked the entire Homeland War as a joint criminal enterprise, and the Croatian state, which was created on the basis of the Homeland War, is marked as a criminal creation, a Croatian people a criminal nation. And it was observed in that ruling of the Croatian Court of Justice that until 8.10.1991 there was no aggression on the Republic of Croatia, I quote this quote: "It was only since 8.10 every other state and every foreign army that it was clear that by performing military operations in the territory of Croatia was an aggression against the Republic of Croatia." This finding means that the Supreme Court of Croatia acknowledges that all that happened by 8 October was not aggression but the defence of the constitutional order of the SFRY. If we ask ourselves what we will celebrate after the Hague verdict on August 5th, I ask the question, and after the ruling of the Croatian Court of Justice we celebrate on 31.03 at Plitvices, 2nd of May in Borov Selo, 1st of August in Dale, 3rd of September in... What are we celebrating June 25th? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What happened in Vukovar from the day the destruction began on August 25th to October 8th? What happened on October 7th, '91? Years of rocketling the Ban Courts? Was it an act of aggression or legal use of the air force then the only regulatory units of the JNA? Now the highest-ranking state officials, the former and those present, such as Pontius Pilate, are washing their hands, and they are all responsible for what is happening to Croatian defenders, generals, Homeland War, Croatian people. Today's government has tattooed itself with a mark of betrayal that will follow it throughout Croatian history, a mark to locate-identify-inflicted-transfer. However, both Mesic and Racan and Sanader and Seks and Kosorica and Josipovic and Mladen Bajić and the judges of the County Court and the judges of the Supreme Court will each in their own way find a place in Croatian history as a participant of this joint criminal anti-Croatian enterprise. Because what they did and did has characteristics not only of endangering state independence but of national high treason. As of today, when students of Croatian schools come to visit the Croatian Assembly, I invite them to visit and the premises of the HDSSB club, there will be photographs of them on one wall.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71186	Mr. Representative, you've spent your exposure, please don't, I'm interrupting. ... Mr. Representative, you are not, or anyone else, competent to declare what high treason is and what is not high treason. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Those who can do so under the Constitution and by law will be made aware of this and do not use such words and qualifications in the Croatian Parliament please. We have one correction to the incorrect quote, Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71187	Thank you, Mr. President. The fact that the number of years convicted in the first-degree process in The Hague has caused shock in Croatia does not give anyone the right to speak false, which is that the ruling criminalised the Homeland War, it is not explicitly. THAT "Storm" is marked as a common criminal enterprise in that verdict is not explicitly true, so read it and you will see. If that verdict condemns the entire Croatian people explicitly read and you will see, it is not true. THAT THE Croatian Court of Justice ruled against very specific crimes against Branimir Glavas in any way touched "Storms" or any other war operation during the Homeland War, it is inadmissible that individual crimes are hidden behind the Homeland War and that the Homeland War is used and falsely portrayed as being labeled as a criminal enterprise to protect individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71188	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Dinko Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71189	Thank you, Mr. President. So, the violation of the Rules of Procedure under Article 209 because I was not talking about the verdict of Croatian General Branimir Glavas, or "Storm" or anything else. And that it's about labeling and that it's about criminalising the Homeland War, it's common knowledge. As it is generally known, Ms. Pusic that you are one of those who started criminalising the Homeland War in 2000 and that recently, although it is the obligation of all citizens in the Republic of Croatia to respect the Declaration of the Homeland War in the Sarajevo daily "Days" that the Declaration of the Homeland War should simply be ignored.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71190	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure or in connection with Article 209. The lady commented and mentioned the persons you mentioned in your debate, and I think we can move on. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71191	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At this difficult moment for Croatia, reason must prevail. We've won all battles by understanding, and we'll win this one. It is difficult to speak at the moment of this judgment without emotion, but we must, we are politicians and we are responsible for bringing this situation to an end within the framework of the law and within the framework of the decisions taken by this Assembly and by the Constitutional Law on Co-operation with The Hague. Surely we find it difficult to listen these days about how the Croatian side of defence committed war crimes and killed civilians, and we do not hear a word about how the aggressor killed more than 8,000 civilians in the Republic of Croatia, and in this House we have sought the State's Attorney's Office and took care of it and asked for it further. And those 8,000 civilians are also crying out for the convictions of their executioners. It is also very difficult to accept statements from domestic institutions such as the Croatian Helsinki Committee as to how many civilians were found in the recovery site. It was found, but it was only when a civilian is found to be a civilian and we have proved how many civilians in the JNA service that we have proven that it is a territorial defense and its member who also has in one part of the civilian uniform, therefore it is necessary to leave it to the competent institutions to investigate, politicisation does not benefit the generals of The Hague, nor the victims, and at least to the Croatian state. And let me remind you, this High House has brought three declarations about this topic. March 5, 99. The resolution on cooperation with the International Criminal Court in The Hague and we must stick to what we have brought, regardless of who sat in these benches, had the legitimacy of the elected representative in the Croatian Parliament. On October 13, 2000, we brought the Declaration of the Homeland War, on June 30, 2006, we brought the Declaration of Storm. The "Storm" declaration, the subject of this debate today, was passed by 64 votes to, 10 votes against and six abstentions, so the vast majority. I'm just going to read point two of that Declaration to see that we've actually said everything we think about it. Point 2 says this: "The military redistributive action of Storm has been prepared and implemented with respect to all the provisions of international humanitarian and civil law and with respect for all the internationally accepted obligations of our country". We expressed our attitude with it. What would it mean to repeat attitudes at this point? This would mean the politicisation of a judicial process and we do not have the right to do so because politicisation would damage generals, defences and, of course, the entire Republic of Croatia. So let us leave it to the competent institutions, the Government of the Republic of Croatia takes action within its legal powers, the defenders receive documentation to be delivered to our Homeland War Documentation Centre, if anyone has, we should all contribute to everything so that the Hague Court in the second degree can be tried on the basis of true documents and all undertake everything, but in a judicial sense and within the framework of our provisions of the legal and our institutions that this difficult verdict is changed. History will not write decisions, history will not write courts, history will be written by those who created it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71192	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71193	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect assumption that this verdict and this topic today cannot be politicized. It is politicised maximum, it is a political verdict, it is the honourable president of the parliament as one of the few after the verdict said it is a political verdict and it is fully agreed with you. Therefore, politics must take its stand, especially the state policy declared a criminal creation, it is true, Mrs Pusic. And in addition, the policy of this government cannot only be entered into the European Union at all costs, so, if it should be without honor and without national pride, that what is part of the ruling, which would provide part of the opposition with well-paid chairs in the European Parliament. We don't need to enter the European Union without national pride.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71194	Thank you, Mr. Andri Hebrang's violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71195	Thank you very much, my colleague has injured Article 209. Rules of Procedure, he corrected everything I didn't say, for example, I didn't mention to the European Union at all, so I recommend that my colleague not sit on his ears, but on that part of the body he sits with on the chair.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71196	Thank you. Let's move on, so I recommend everyone to listen, and then quote correctly, because the correction is a quote from someone rather than abstract stories. Now we have on behalf of the IDS Club Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71197	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. There is also today, under item 3 of this agenda, the Law on the application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international and humanitarian law. Today, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Brammertz is coming to Croatia. I see we have begun to contribute to the closure of these European chapters. I absolutely agree with everyone here who discussed that Croatia was the victim of one brutal aggression, Vukovar, Škabrnja, Dubrovnik, Slavonia, etc. The victims are those aggressions. Croatia has lost as Mr Hebrang says 8,000 civilians and more than 5,000 soldiers. Of course it's a crime of crime. Clearly, we are shaken by the verdicts of Gotovina and Markac by the thesis of a criminal enterprise, but Mr Buric did not destroy the dignity of the Croatian people by the hard Hague but by those who destroyed Croatia's economic base. If a country has no economic basis or strength, then it's addictive to everyone, so it's addictive to The Hague. The Hague did not condemn the Croatian people, but I say that the Croatian people condemned those who sucked the substance, that is those 200 families of obsession with BiH, Sanader's greed and this rule of the country without electoral legitimacy. What is the definition of a criminal enterprise by The Hague? It is a large number of crimes, Tudjman's statement, discriminatory measures to prevent the return of Serbs, the settlement of empty spaces and the 5th leave to the authorities that perpetrators of crime simply do not punish themselves. It is clear that the Storm was a legitimate action, clearly it was a liberating action and it is clear that Croatia was right to defend its territory, but in a way it says and Serge Brammertz here is at least according to a quote from Vesnik on 23.04.2011. 1. "The storm was a legitimate action to liberate occupied territory," he said, "that doesn't mean Brammertz says that crimes can be committed at the expense" etc. The verdict tells the generals "it is not a verdict to the Croatian people or to the Croatian state but to individuals". And then we come up with a fundamental problem. What is the fundamental problem of a judgment like this? Well, first of all, the fact that after the storm, 670 and something according to the report of HHO, an old woman and an old woman who couldn't hurt anyone. This crime has not been prosecuted to this day, the burning of more than 22,000 which is the economics of residential buildings, and the buildings burned far after 8.8'95. For years, everything with the aim of avoiding the population would not return. What's the problem? Because Tudjman's ministers in '98. In the year, Gotovina was not allowed to testify to Hague investigators as Generals Stipetic, Laušić, Agotic, etc., because Gotovina's defence had the primary goal of leading the state budget, defending those who led the state, not defending the generals. Finally, it is not Mesic who has now been named recently guilty of some transcripts. He made it clear to some of the people sitting in this House that they were driving and cleaning Tudjman's archives. Everyone took from those archives what compromised him, and they left what had been politically burdening the generals. You saved yourself, you buried the generals. If the generals had been taken care of as they had taken care of Tudjman, Gojk Shusk and himself would not have been this judgment. But I have the impression that some have never cared for others but only for themselves and that's what I also talk about. It's my fault that I don't have it here, but I don't have a HHO report here that we might be able to discuss whether something out there is questionable or whether the thesis is simply correct. And finally you all know very well that without political leadership in '96. a constitutional law on co-operation with The Hague court could not be passed, but clearly without that vote, neither Croatia could benefit from I do not know international loans and what I know is not everything. All in all, gentlemen, I think that Croatia has been a hostage of one policy for 20 years, and I hope that there will be no more hostage to such policy for 20 years, because we can thank that policy for the "judgment" of Gotovina and Markac.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71198	Mr. Representative, neither you nor anyone else has the right to accuse anyone here, let alone judge and list who's responsible, who's not responsible. That's not your job. Secondly, as regards co-operation with The Hague, let no excuse be given to those who did what they needed for individuals, because there is a body for co-operation with The Hague Court, when it was possible to deliver everything through the government's body, and not as in the market to share political points with themselves, in such a way that some are in one way or another, but in any case not consistent with the government's body for the cooperation of that matter. About that, by that. I'm not accusing you, but that's what happened. Therefore, you cannot generally say there is a constitutional law on co-operation with The Hague and I can now do whatever I want and every single person can do what he wants. He can't do what he wants but according to what we have prescribed, which is what we have in charge of, this is what I want to tell the Croatian public to take advantage of my seat as chairman, so that he can cooperate within the framework of the law within the body of the government who is working with The Hague court. And he can't just pull something out of his pocket and say here I'm giving this to The Hague. No one's right to do that. We are all obliged to act in accordance with what we ourselves have prescribed. Please be nice and let's not mix it up. There are several corrections of incorrect allegations here. First Mr. Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71199	Mr. President, I am correcting Mr. Cain's incorrect claim that the dignity of the Homeland War was not violated by the Hague verdict, but solely by economic policy. And this second one has accuracy. However, I am not surprised at you, Mr. Cain, knowing your political views, but as you defend the Hague verdict, do you defend The Hague's verdict in your footsteps. I'm not surprised you're attacking the first Croatian president. I am surprised by the ruling, I am amazed at the representatives of the HDZ and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for so easily crossing through qualifications against the first Croatian president to be declared head of a joint criminal enterprise. And not only are you defending not the founders of your party and the first Croatian president but at the same time the Government of the Republic of Croatia only this year in the first four months of closed sessions with 5 million kuna, without the public knowing, financing its coalition partner SDSS, or the Serbian National Council under the exception of so-called "Smalls". development of the Serbian minority institutions. And from the looks of it, I'll repeat, this development of the Serb minority institutions, what I've already shown you once. This is paid by the HDZ Government... This pays for a picture of Dr. Francis Tudjman with horns and vampire teeth. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71200	Oh, please, that's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Cain didn't talk about it. .../Speakers speak in the same voice, not understood.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71201	Is that how the founders and the first Croatian president are defended? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71202	Thank you. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71203	So I defend him more than you do because he is the first Croatian president, founder of the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71204	Please, it's been a while...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71205	And I call on the representatives of the main opposition party as well, why are you silent now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71206	Please. Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71207	Why do you remain silent when it comes to the survival of the Croatian state?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71208	Let's not abuse the institutes we have here to report for correcting the incorrect allegations. You were correcting something Mr. Cain didn't say, and you reported for Mr. Cain's exposure. He said something else we talked about. And we have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, Vice President Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71209	Article 209, this statement by MP Buric, particularly in the part in which he honours that the Croatian Democratic Community does not hold to honor, dignity and historical roles of the first Croatian president of Dr Franjo Tudjman and that he should probably defend him is a complete slanderous claim. The Croatian Democratic Community is very much respecting the work throughout its political action, the historic work of the first Croatian president, Dr Franjo Tudjman, and does not need his work to defend against such quasi as Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71210	Mrs. Sumrak, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71211	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 209, 213 and 214 is injured precisely because such speech by MP Buric insults the dignity of both the Homeland War, the dignity of Croatia, the dignity of every patriot and any representative in this House and anyone who has participated, respected, loved and appreciated this Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71212	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71213	Your Honor, Mr. President. And the esteemed Vice President of the Parliament and the esteemed representative are reporting to correct me for Mr Cain's debate. But since you want to, Mr. Shakespeare, whatever you're saying and thinking and trying to insult me or anyone else...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71214	Article of the Rules of Procedure which has been injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71215	In Croatian history, you will be remembered to locate, identify, arrest and transfer, not as the creator of the Christmas Constitution, but will follow you now and in the other world.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71216	I warn MPs and MPs that they are in charge of breaching the Rules of Procedure first to say which article is injured and what is injured, so to explain what it is, not to pollemise and respond to certain earlier discussions. Here's the breach of the Rules of Procedure again, Vice President Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71217	In 209, MP Buric honours me for hurting the Rules of Procedure because I was talking about the historical role of President Tudjman, whom he does not need to defend, which his work defends enough. Mr. Buric, by the way, I've explained to the public a hundred times that I've only passed on the conclusions from the National Security Council session and for that reason, stop, refuse to accuse me of high treason once. I will not serve any other qualifications of offensive and slanderous nature under which you serve. I could count that to a large extent. I have honestly and responsibly defended the Constitution, defended the law, defended the legal order in every part of it since the 1990s and created the Croatian Constitution and created and participated in the creation and adoption of all laws and all historical decisions concerning the Croatian state, from the constitutional decision on sovereignty and independence to the breakup of state bonds to all others. Therefore, it is extremely inappropriate for you to impute my high treasonous intentions and intentions, extremely inappropriate, extremely irresponsible, extremely offensive, not to use any other words.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71218	Thank you. But please, here are the reports of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and most of them are not spoken of for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, but are pollemized about what was said earlier. I ask you to stick to it and conclude the injuries of the Rules of Procedure that are not. Are you insisting on Mr. Buric or giving up your application for a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71219	Mr. President, I'm giving up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure because whatever Mr. Shakespeare has said will remain as I have told you, that's how the people experience you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71220	Let's move on. Please, we have another one, two, three, four, five corrections of incorrect allegations. Each of these corrections of incorrect allegations if what we have been doing is followed can cause damage to the Rules of Procedure because, of course, it can't be a responsible correction of the incorrect assumption. I ask you not to abuse this institute in the Croatian Parliament and then use it to pollemize. It's Mr. Agent Ivan Bagaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71221	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting the inaccuracy of fellow Caine, which refers to the godless obsession of Tudjman and Croatia with Bosnia and Herzegovina. A fellow Caine, just like this, an unjust and unfounded first-degree ruling of the Hague court is fueled by such claims. I would say it is actually an obsession of some people here in Croatia with late President Tudjman, with Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and God ask you what else. So only a foolish man can determine that now Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is divided unfortunately into the Republic of Serbia and the Federation where the other Croats are a total minority, can still be called to something that I once didn't know about, talked about or called an obsession. And yesterday there was a meeting in Karajordjevo that was made by some others, and there was no Tudjman. So, the result of this division that you're talking about and that you're constantly pushing for the Croats to be gone. On the other hand, all Bosnia and Herzegovina's assistance is responsible for this here during the war it went exclusively through Croatia, whether by Croatian sea, whether by Croatian territory, land or air, and if there were no Croatian engagements, Croatia in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina would have collapsed as a state. Therefore, everyone knows it, and it's just that some of our people don't know it, and they keep pushing themselves around and taking it for granted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71222	Thank you. Correction by Mrs. Representative Gjurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, since Mr. Cain is probably suffering from an abstinence crisis of non-species over this assembly room, it doesn't give him the right to use incorrect claims that this government has no legitimacy. This government also has the legality and legitimacy and support of the European Union and Mr Brammertz who was here and confirmed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71224	Correction Mr. Representative and Vice President Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71225	Your Honor, Mr. President. The scary words were spoken by Mr. Cain. He convicted, accused, and liquidated, so he said there were some documents being carried out. No, it was exactly what the government asked for with its conclusions and that commission. So, commission together. Secondly, that's an incorrect allegation. Secondly, that Gotovina's lawyers were exclusively concerned with making the most of the profits uninterested in the outcome of defending the general. It's simply incorrect. And thirdly, Mr. Kaja's generals are accused by those transcripts, based on those transcripts that were illegally delivered to The Hague, not those that were not delivered. That's a difference you don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71226	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Damir Cain. Please comply with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71227	Well, Article 209, first of all, I'm not defending anyone, I'm not defending The Hague or the verdict. I defend Gotovina and Markac more than the people who call on them. Yes, yes, from all of you. But that's why these people were convicted because one of the political leaders allowed all those heavy fires and those liquidations that were held after the 8th of '95. And I guess someone should be in this... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71228	Come on, please! Before I give it to you, I'll tell you what. It is precisely that, to be called to the verdict on documents which have not been delivered to the Hague court on our regulations, that is, through the body in charge is something that Mr. Jarnjak has established here. You didn't kill anything but argue, did you? Here you go, Mr. Jarnjak again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71229	Your Honor, Mr. President, I refer to Article 209. It has simply become a practice in this House that when someone is not satisfied with what has been said through the institute of correcting an incorrect quote then lifts up a tile and simply pollemizes. We brought this Rules of Procedure. We can change it. Well, we'd rather change it than break it every day. What example do we set for the Croatian nation, the Croatian people?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71230	If you would allow me to agree and perhaps in the next meeting of the Croatian Parliament we could arrange for me to ask these institutions that are being abused daily, sometimes a dozen and 20 times and leave this part of the Croatian Rules of Procedure at least a little bit more orderly. Maybe we should think about it so that we can avoid these seven or six months of abuse of such institutes that we have used very often. And Mr. Ante Kulisic, also the correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71231	It's true that fellow Caine says some of them took Tudjman's archives. It is fortunate, Mr. Caine, that you cannot judge because in your debate you condemned the creation of the Croatian state and the first Croatian president of Dr. Tudjman. He was defending the indictment, and based on your debate, I don't even know how much you wanted to create the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71232	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, here's your correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u71233	Thank you very much. Mr. Caine, I have two corrections for your exposure. Namely, you're talking about crimes after 8.8.1995. Mr. Caine, I was a witness when Civil Protection of Kutina and Sisak collected corpses, a column run over by the tanks brigade of Mile Novakovic, eighty fours that we pulled towards Bosnia-based Novi via Žirovac-Dvor. Have you ever wondered if Mr. Mile Novakovic was meant to be in this regard? Has anyone taken action against him, the penitentiary? Second, you're talking about the Homeland War, and then you're going on crime and corruption. But you see how it did not offend you that in the textbooks of Profiles, therefore to Croatian textbooks that are taught in Slavonia, above all, and most of all betray and sell it says that it is the Homeland War, and you say the Liberation War, I guess it is not the People's Liberation. So that the Homeland War, it says, was created by the increased dismissal of Serbs from work in Croatia and the emergence of radical Chetnic groups. That doesn't hurt. So once you've done that, say something in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72244	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, we move to the first item of the agenda that we announced earlier, and this is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime. It's an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 753. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by representative Ana Lovrin. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Justice Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72245	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime. The fight against corruption and organised crime is one of the very important objectives of our society, and really corruption is a harmful phenomenon that devours the very foundations of our society, and corruption is actually an extremely negative phenomenon, and what we want to ensure that corruption is eradicated as much as possible, because some theorists say that corruption is impossible to completely eradicate. However, corruption affects the functioning of all institutions and bodies of a single state, and unless we have the conditions for these bodies to act on the basis of the principle of legality, to apply the laws, but to act here and related to organised crime, and that corruption is widespread, then it is the fundamental principle of rule of law. As a society, we have indeed done very much in the fight against organised crime and corruption, we have conducted extremely significant procedures, and that those organisationally create effective institutions and institutions that have the task of fighting corruption, and thus by ensuring normative conditions. I will just remind myself that we have within the framework of our state bodies, we have within the Ministry of the Interior a specialised department that deals with the research of these crimes, that we have within the framework of the State's Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, but we have four specialized courts dealing with these jumping deeds, these are four of our largest county courts Osijek, Zagreb, Split and Rijeka. We have, of course, passed the Law on Criminal Procedure, a modern law that allows for much faster, much more quality, much better processing, not only organised criminality of the perpetrators, but since 1.9 this year, the functioning and application of the new Criminal Procedure Act will also be on all other crimes. We also ensured the conditions, as the material conditions for the work of all these bodies are said, and the results are simply seen in the fight against corruption and organised crime. This is also an important issue for the closure of Chapter 23, as the functioning of the state is well looked at in the fight against corruption. We today have a whole series of procedures that are being conducted in connection with these crimes, we have today a whole series of procedures that have been completed, judgments have been issued, and in this way we send a message to society that these acts do not pay off, and that society and the state will be able to sanction and know how to set themselves up accordingly. It is necessary to create a general climate of fight against corruption, because it is not only the struggle of the Ministry of the Interior, the State Attorney's Office and courts, but also the state of one consciousness that includes the knowledge that corruption is something that is harmful and something that will not ultimately be paid off. What we're changing by this law, I'd say we have three major changes. The first thing is to introduce one form of supervision or control, and in relation to those criminal charges that have been rejected. We do not, in law, have effective mechanisms of control and control of rejection in proceedings, so when criminal charges are rejected. If the criminal complaint has been filed by a damage to the criminal offence, we are not in a problem here, our Criminal Procedure Act stipulates that the damage is to be placed at the scene of the prosecutor, with all the rights and obligations that the state's attorney has, therefore, and continues the proceedings. And in such a case, if there is a misappropriation of criminal charges, one who is damaged by a crime may continue to persecute himself. However, if we have therefore that criminal charges have been filed, and we have no damages, then according to the current regulation, if there is a rejection of a criminal application, we do not have an effective monitoring mechanism, but there is always a certain doubt as to whether or not it should have been acted on or not. By amending this law, we introduce forms of supervision, and the one who filed a criminal complaint, and this application has been rejected, so the State's Attorney's Office or the USKOK felt that it was not similar to the act, so we introduce this as a legal remedy, and it is decided by the College, so the USKOK College. The USKOK College is reviewing the criminal application submitted once more, and is seeing if there are any elements of its conduct. If the College decides and says there is no condition to act on such a criminal application, then it is possible to submit another legal remedy and which is actually going to the Department of Internal Affairs of the State's Attorney's Office, which once again discusses such a criminal application. This is therefore the introduction of a completely transparent way of deciding on criminal charges, and yet we also took care of the special constitutional position of the State's Attorney's Office, because our Constitution says the State's Attorney's Office is an independent and independent body, and therefore we had to take care of this constitutional position and dimension of the State's Attorney's Office, where it is not possible therefore to set up such surveillance mechanisms somewhere outside the system. Another significant change introduced by this law is that if the injured party continues to pursue prosecution, then the case, which is also being conducted at the request of the injured, cannot come to any other court, but to these four specialized so-called so-called. the jumping court, the largest four county courts, which are acting in the criminal acts set out in the USKOK Act. And the third change is also the possibility of a delegation of cases within the four of our jumping courts because sometimes there are reasons and economics when it is necessary instead of that court that is really and locally competent to move the case to another court where it would be much more economical to carry out both evidence and evidence, and sometimes just for the environment in which a particular procedure is conducted because there is the possibility that it is much better to conduct the procedure in the second place and without certain influences both the public and other influences that could lead to a certain distortion of the economics of the procedure. Therefore, these are fundamental changes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime. And what I also want to say in the opening statement, we have already analysed the amendments submitted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and by Mrs Ana Lovrin, thank you for the amendments, they are acceptable, they have corrected some of our nomotechnical considerations and we accept all the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72246	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs want it? Is it? Okay. On behalf of the Committee on Legislatives, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72247	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the 121st session held on 12 April 2011, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime with the final draft law. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal of the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. On the text of the final proposal, the Committee shall submit the following amendments: the first amendment to Article 1, in Article 1 of the added Article 28(6), shall be replaced by the words of paragraph 5, explaining that an obvious error is removed because Article 28d has only 5 items. The second amendment to Article 2 is therefore replaced by the words of Varazdin, Velika Gorica, Zlatar and Velika Gorica, in Article 2 of the amended Article 31(2), with the reason that it is in line with the special law governing the seats and areas of the courts. Therefore, the Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal that this law be adopted by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72248	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice Committee, President of the Committee, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72249	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. The Committee on Justice for the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime discussed Article 73. Rules of Procedure in the capacity of the parent body. Following the opening explanation of the motionors' representatives, which we have heard mostly already in the debate, the members supported the applicant's intensities to introduce effective control of the rejection of criminal charges when there are no damages. In the opinion of the Committee, it is a questionable suggestion that a college of the Office and the Department of Supervisory at the State's Attorney's Office may be referred to the refusal of criminal application. In practice, this would be 3 degrees of decision in all proceedings and in the procedures under the application of the anonymous application. Namely, a solution to the rejection of a criminal application when there is no damage to the applicant may be objected to by the College of the Office, if the College of the Office refuses to object, it will make a reasoned decision with the instructions that the decision of the College of the Office may be objected to by the Office of State Attorneys of the Republic of Croatia. In particular, it is pointed out that the law has clearly regulated the composition of the office's colleges and the tasks of the College of the Office while the Department of Supervisory of the State Attorney's Office is a body carrying out general supervision of the work of the State's attorneys. Despite the applicant's argument that it is important for the rejection of criminal application to be controlled by a number of entities, taking into account the observations made by the Committee, it suggests to the applicant that the proposal be reviewed for the sake of an effective and transparent procedure for the control of the rejection of criminal applications. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72250	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72251	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State of the HDZ Club will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. In fact, we passed this law as a whole in 2009. In 2010, he suffered one minor amendment, mainly with the alignment of the terms of the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and this Law. Today's proposal to amend and supplement concerns the issue of control of the rejection of criminal applications. In fact, this issue has been under consideration for some time, as part of the fight against corruption, possible corruption risks in all areas as one of the corruption risks have also been identified as the issue of rejection of criminal charges. Therefore, the question of the absence of any control under the procedure of an individual deputy or director of USKOK or of the Deputy Director of USKOK, so on his personal decision to reject that decision unless there are no damages, there is no possibility of any objection or control from anyone else. In this respect, as part of the closure criteria for Chapter 23, the obligation to ensure effective control of the rejection of criminal charges as we have heard when there are no damages under the Criminal Procedure Act is established in order to ensure that persecution can continue on its own. Therefore, in the event that only the applicant of a criminal application was finally dismissed and nothing could be obtained against him. Now the applicant of a criminal application is given the opportunity to object within 15 days to this solution to the College of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. In that case, the office's college will appoint one of the deputies as rapporteur. Of course, this reporter cannot be the same deputy who made the decision to reject him. Following the submission of the report, the College will determine either that the objection has been established and, in that case, it will continue the proceedings or determine that the objection is unfounded and in that case, it will decide and inform the applicant of the complaint and refer it to the possibility of making any further objections to the Department of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Croatia. This is indeed about a three-stage decision on each criminal application submitted, but then the controls will be thorough and effective. It also introduces controls in cases where the criminal application is not submitted, but in cases where the Office decides, on the basis of its powers under the Law, to initiate the procedure by registering the registration of written criminal applications, and then also if the Deputy Director of UskoK decides to reject or suspend the procedure, it will also inform the College of the Office which will decide on the basis of such a decision or non-basement, or if it is assessed unfounded, it will continue to be prosecuted if it is also referred to the Office for Internal Control of the State's Attorney. This amendment introduces another newspaper, and this would also be the order of anti-corruption measures and it is the fact that Article 31 of the existing law determining which courts are responsible for the handling of criminal offences referred to in Article 21. The USKOK Act and a member to determine which county courts are covered by the so-called Bouncers, therefore, in these amendments which the Minister has already accepted in the debate, because it is simply about the corrections to which this text of the Law is aligned with the amendments of the Law on the Areas and Seats of the Courts, one nomotechnical harmonisation, but what the paper of this Law is is that, with the consent of the President of the Administrative Court, a procedure can be brought before the Court of Justice, of course, for these parts of Article 21. The USKOK Act and in front of one of the Jumping Courts if the act is in the jurisdiction of a court which does not fall under the jurisdiction of this Jumping Court, just as a measure to combat corruption of the potential impact of the environment, etc. It is also a newspaper item 4 of that article, which says now that the Uskom Court is in charge and in the event of the damage to the prosecution as a prosecutor, so far it has been in the event that the prosecution would have given up USKOK if the damage to the prosecution continues to be prosecuted, then the general local court was, however, now this amendment to the Law, since it is still a matter of work from the Uskoko jurisdiction to determine that, in that case, the competent jump courts will be responsible. I would say that, of course, we will support this Law, although we can see from the reasons that only the State's Attorney's Office came up after a number of rejections of criminal charges, probably because a number of applications were mainly anonymous, began to arrive to be reviewed and questioned by those rejected applications that it was found mainly that all these decisions were established, but it is one informal control and it really needs to change the law to formalise that control and to give it the legality. Here, therefore, we will support the adoption of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72252	Thank you. On behalf of the HNSU Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72253	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. On behalf of the HNSU Club, I declare that we will support the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime. In an existing situation where we can call opportunities to combat corruption in the Republic of Croatia rather complex, intense, dynamically important to ensure, on the one hand, all potential damages, but to all those who have relevant information on the initiation of criminal offences, that they have a passing and completely transparent process of reporting such acts and that they can, without greater problems, inform the State's attorney-in-law or the USKOK of their findings or doubts, and on the other hand, we need to ensure that the system which is within the framework of the State's Attorney General's Office, as its specialised office, for the prevention of corruption and organised crime, have as far as possible better conditions for their work and under 2nd clear and transparent procedures for examining the submitted criminal charges which will not leave any doubt in professionality, professionality and good intentions of the State's attorneyship system, i.e. On the one hand, we also witness the fact that the processes initiated by the State's Attorney's Office or those cases in which the USOKK is very familiar with the public, and above all it is about bombings, that these cases and procedures lead to the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK not only in the focus of public interest but also increase citizens' confidence in what the State's Attorney's Office and USKOK are doing, that is, we would say to increase the level of expectations of the citizens from the USKOK and the DORH. In this regard, it is certain that the number of those who believe that it is worth applying to USKOK is increased because it is believed that the USKOK is indeed not only in good faith but in the principles of absolute professionalism and respect for the law will respond in a timely and quality manner to such applications. It is equally expected that there will be an increase in the number of applications for registrations, reports for compromise, reports for political accounting, because once publicly announced information that someone has reported to USKOK in public works amongst others and very compromising, regardless of the fate of the procedure, this case will be done in a week, month or two, or whether the application will be accepted, processed and whether the BOOK will act or be rejected. We are witnessing that USKOK is sometimes spoken of and verbally beaten, we are witnessing that many of these cases that appear in the public as extremely attractive are a kind of threat to all those who have committed crimes or for whom information has already spread in the public that the perpetrators have been either co-responsible or are involved in committing acts of corruption and organised crime. In this sense, it should be very serious, very careful, very measured, and in these services such as BUSKOK and DORH extremely professional and principled. The fight against corruption must not become a sword of political reckoning, as political membership must not in any millimeter in any second be anyone's alibi for a position before the law enforcement authorities in the event of criminal acts. It is right in this respect that it has been observed by the people of the European Commission that the procedure which has been in force so far in cases where the Director of USKOK or the Deputy Chief of Staff rejects the applications submitted, and in particular in cases where a specific person or person has not been damaged, there is only a person who has filed a criminal application, that this procedure is not sufficiently transparent or that the effects of this procedure do not instill absolute confidence that the procedure has been led and completed in accordance with the principles defined by the law or that too much space is left to the discretionary right of the Director or the Deputy. In the interest of the Director and Deputy Director of USKOK himself, that this situation is changed or that this procedure is absolutely transparent and that there is a possibility and a way to object, that there is also a procedure in which the complaint procedure is audited. Therefore, it is important that a solution be reached in this particular case, in the event of an objection, be decided by the College of Directors. And we have another degree, which is that, in the event of the adoption of the Director's decision, or the Deputy Chief of Staff, the second complaint in the whole story also includes the Department of Attorney General. There are therefore comments whether to introduce a third degree, but there is also a very strong logic that says USKOK is part of the State's Attorney's Office and unless the DORH is involved in this procedure with its supervisory department, then we have not received absolute control of the DORH system over individual components. In that sense, this solution may be somewhat unusual because we have not had it so far, but it leads to a situation which will be much, much more transparent, clearer and by the very position of the director and vice director of USKOK much healthier. Similarly, we believe that it is not a bad solution to the situation in which discards exist in which applicants are actually referred to their own actions also being dealt with in jumping courts because the practice has shown that in the event that such cases are not lost in the sea of judicial proceedings being conducted in competent courts without any priority and no real effect because of the very nature of the suspicion of committing a criminal offence. We believe that these solutions are not bad. In this respect, I repeat, the HNS and HSU Club is ready to support the changes proposed by the Government or the Ministry of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72254	Thank you. It is up to the SDP club, Mrs. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72255	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP Club fully understands the basic postulates on which all modern states rest and their three pillars of independence, three pillars of government, executive, legislative and judicial strictest not only will it not support but strongly condemn such an attempt by the Executive Authority to attack the judicial authority because I will immediately remind Article 125. State Attorney's Office, Chapter V of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. "The State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK is an integral part of the State's Attorney's Office, an independent and independent judicial body is authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, to take legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia, and to submit legal remedies for the protection of the Constitution and the rights". In 2002, we passed the USCOD Act. There were talk of jumps that would jump among criminals, among thieves, among corrupts and corrupts. There's been a lot of skepticism at the time by HDZ whether it's really going to be that way. However, the legal framework has been complemented all these years, even the police have established their own USKOK-by-SKOK police type. And now instead of empowering them both in this common goal of fighting them, we allow their mutual reasoning in the worst possible way, that the police control one act of an independent judicial body, that they have the right to complain. To understand this matter should also understand the history of criminal proceedings, ours but also parallel. That's never been the case. True, in those darkest times, the police, the then militia, were doing research, they were conducting an investigation, and when there was a reform of the then state's significant democratisation in '65. A judicialization of investigations and investigations was established and transferred to the judge, which was the victory of democracy because the defendant found protection in the investigating judge. We have now seen that this investigative judge has become a brake of development during the process because everything that was happening in the previous procedure, this investigation later has been repeated through the main debate and the further course of the formal procedure itself, and it has indeed, in some way, become a brake by the development of this criminal procedure. And now we have a solution that we've all accepted the state's attorney's office is conducting an investigation. The State's Attorney's office is conducting an investigation. It is also true that many rejections are not satisfied with citizens, is not satisfied with the applicant’s application. If we see perhaps and remind ourselves of the State's Attorney's report on the work of the state's attorneys in the Republic of Croatia, we will see that there are a number of rejections filed by the police. However, rightly, the old principle is true, all is well explained and the best defence control of each body, and especially one that is independent is the transparency of decision-making and public justification. It's the only mechanism. Unfortunately, however, we do not bear witness to this proposal of the law but rather something different. I must remind myself of the protection of the integrity of our Constitution and our independent judiciary. I know what independent experts are and I wouldn't want to offend anyone. These are two men, Mr. Washed the judge from Naples, one midlevel with his assistant. However, we also had an independent mission of independent experts who insisted that we amend the State's Attorney's Law because that state's attorneys work in college and that their independence is not recognised. What a distraction. So what these independent experts of ours are doing is pushing us a little left, a little to the right, forward, back. Why, because we don't know how to make an independent judiciary itself so it can be quick, to be effective. It's our own mission. I remind you once again, the same way when we changed the Law on the State's Attorney's Office was particularly apostrophe that the deputy state's attorneys were independent. I don't know how well the public knows the way, the methodology of working in the state's attorney's office. The State's Attorney's Office is a hierarchical body and whatever such changes have been made to provide a large, large independence and look at these disciplines in relation to such a proposal. So it's obvious that it's a certain pressure, but not just an independent expert mission, it's the least of the problems. The problem is that some of the reports, which we have here on the current morning, had a chance to hear, caused shock and infidelity by the police. Such attempts by the state administration, the state executive authorities in an independent judiciary throughout this period of development of judicial independence were such attempts and through all authorities there were... try. [[You don't understand.]] This kind of thing a well-intentioned man might even say, so let's keep it under control so they'll look back at the college again, no harm in it. But I note that college is now, especially all major subjects. It is a joint decision first in departments and in colleges and even published on the pages of the State's Attorney's Office with an explanation. We didn't have that once. So I repeat, the best dam for someone working unconsciously is the public and good decisions, or a good explanation for such decisions. What we need is to strengthen responsibility and transparency, not the mutual accounting of the state's attorney's office and the police or vice versa. Now let me get back to the specifics. So, when the State's Attorney's Office rejects a police application saying there are no damages, there is no private damage that has been particularly protected for many years through our legislation to take over the persecution, so he appears as a subsidiary prosecutor. And now it's theoretically explained that that's where it wasn't, where the police submitted a proposal, a criminal application or the State's Attorney's Office acted ex offo, by official duty based on their own knowledge, so during the process there was a belief that there was not enough evidence and that the failure, therefore, and in that case, when there were no damages and there was no damage to those cases of the state because such persecutions were being carried out in the state interest, and then someone should protect those state interests because perhaps the criminal application was not rejected but that something had been swindled or that it was not well discussed. And what does the government suggest? To protect the state's interests, not to the State's Attorney's Office, which I repeat, the Constitution has been guaranteed and given the authority to protect the state's interest and to pursue it in the state's interest and to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia in property matters. That's why these are, apparently not, but these are serious questions and we've never had such a leap into the judicial system, and this is for principle reasons very harmful and dangerous. If we wanted one control, but it is already in one way that perhaps the public is less famous then we are about to decide on certain criminal acts which the level of independence may have for a particular state lawyer, as far as it can be done in the department or the entire college itself and certain even level of conduct, because it has very much the possibilities and instruments because, I repeat, the State's Attorney's Office is hierarchically established and it is usually already doing so. So the state here is saying no to the State's Attorney's office is not protecting the state's interests. So whose interests is he protecting? We're now letting the police protect the state's interests. And that, therefore, appears in this, in this moment, through these amendments to the law they will protect the state's interests because the State's Attorney's Office has rejected the application without protecting the state's interests. What's in that can be wrong. Well, that's beyond doubt. Whoever's doing this can make a mistake. But also because of abuse, we have to make sure. But this is the worst possible way for a team more and a team before despite the most transparent rejections still being politicized here, talking and it was overtures and we recognize it. It was an assurance to come up with a bill like this. And we never asked if anyone answered in the Republic of Croatia because some criminal charges ended up out of date, and on the other hand because, therefore, absolutely one reckless treatment or perhaps not just out of sheer care, but also with the intention of doing so on the one hand. On the other hand, to resist what his colleague said and say, Beus, saying on behalf of the HNS Club that political reckonings are being made. That's worse, then. That's the end of it, then. Then it's not dusk. Then that's the end of the rule of law. So one too much to God's zeal, and then that's compensation. Too much zeal knowing a good methodology of work and psychology and philosophy of conduct is always a compensation for something that has knowingly failed to go or not to apply. And we here have to be determined that no one innocent is being persecuted because it's even worse than being persecuted by one who should be persecuted. But the basic meaning and the Code of Criminal Procedure of both this law and the Law on the State's Attorney's Office must be this, one unique goal of not removing the blame without an innocent being cast out to the executioner. Apparently, there is a certain tension on how to reconcile these two fundamental principles, but even so. It's just at first sight, but it doesn't have to be that way. I think we'll all agree here that we agree that the guilty, criminals must not run away from us, but that an innocent man must not be persecuted. It's an old principle. Better than condemning an innocent. The public can handle it because, unfortunately, she has learned that many guilty people have escaped justice, but she will never live up to the fact that an innocent man is being persecuted. It's been a major trauma to the Croatian people since ancient times. And that is something recorded in the memory of Croatian peoples and Croatian citizens. And we can't let this happen. We're against the mustache laws. That's... Laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With the best will and intent. I know that when a difficult situation is that we want to resort to situations like this that are not only popular but in that one intention to prevent some rejections that may not have been discards. But it doesn't, there's no mechanism for the police to do it. However, we had more intensity when a new CAP was being done, unfortunately you did not accept it. But this was also outlined in our guidelines for the creation of a new CAP, that since the state's attorney's office is given absolute authority to be the manager and manage the investigation, to give binding orders to the police, to make the police, to be responsible, and to end the procedure properly with a positive outcome, to answer exactly and to be held accountable to the State's Attorney's office. We now have one duality which is now the same, which is also seen through this bill. And I see that here, that the ruling have a problem in the parallel system again, or two systems that lead the police to one side, the State's Attorney's office on the other side to the general joy of criminals. That can't happen. Let the passions be overcome, let vanity be contained because a conscientious and police officer and a state attorney as much as he is convinced at first that someone committed a crime if the evidence they have collected has been denied, then it must be his victory for new knowledge, not one disappointment that in such an absolutely inappropriate way he wants to patch up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72256	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72257	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's said here in the heat of all sorts of things, so it's about each other's accounts of the State's Attorney's office and the police. But here's the hardest thing to do was to introduce these amendments to the law that the police are controlling the act of an independent body of the State's Attorney's Office. I don't know where my colleague read it. So it's about an anti-corruption measure to which an individual, a state attorney in the event of rejection, the applicant of a criminal application was the police, and it's only in one part of the police. You forget your colleagues that criminal charges can be filed by any citizen. Each state authority is obliged to file a criminal report, and the police are only one of those who are authorised to file a criminal report. In that case, the applicant of a criminal application may also object and request the co-workers of the office to review that act by an individual deputy director of the office. So it's absolutely not about any control of the executive authority over an independent state attorney's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72258	Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72259	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the distinguished representative incorrectly stated that this bill made the executive authority, i.e. the Ministry of Justice, attack on the State's Attorney's Office in terms of its independence in the segment of the judiciary. That's absolutely incorrect. Here and in this law, it is exclusively about the introduction of a control mechanism when we talk about rejections of criminal charges. And it's also being done in the State's Attorney's Office system, and it's primarily through the State's Attorney's College. It's not about any pressure from the state's attorney's office. It is one accepted model of control of those criminal charges which have been rejected, i.e. when the State's attorney estimated that there is no basis for further processing in a specific legal situation. So the absolute incorrect claim is that the pressure was made, that the attack was carried out. In this case, therefore, the executive authorities of the State Attorney's Office as a segment of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72260	Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72261	Thank you very much, Vice President. I feel the need to react here. I am truly very sorry if the SDP Club sees such intentions in this law. If that were indeed the case, if we were to ensure by this law that the executive power controls the judicial authority, it would indeed be a step back. This would indeed be a very serious blow to our constitutional order and to the government's trinity, however, if we look at this law and see that absolute executive power has no influence on the State's Attorney's Office, and you have read exactly how our Constitution defines the State's Attorney's Office. And by this law, you've defined exactly and you've said exactly that there is a possibility of a mistake in rejecting certain criminal charges. It is clear that there is a possibility of a mistake that someone has not well assessed whether there is enough evidence, whether these facts are indeed in some area of crime, crimes of criminal responsibility, that is all possible. Now a big step would be back if we could transfer that possibility of error and decision-making to the police, but that's not the case. We allow this error to be decided within the state attorney's system itself, in the first degree of the complaint, to decide on this complaint to the USKOK College, it is defined as being a USKOK college. If it remains on the view that this should be rejected, the Department of Internal Affairs of the State shall decide in the second instance of the complaint. I'll tell you right now, there have been various suggestions on how to resolve that doubt, even there was one possibility, and there have been suggestions that such rejected criminal charges be decided by the court. But is that possible? It's not. Because today, if you decide and say that criminal charges should be accepted, it should be handled, what they would come up with, that same court judge tomorrow in that procedure, where it has already been defined and said should be followed. It was both constitutional and any other impossible solution. This is a solution that ensures really one detailed control at two levels, both within the USKOK and within the Internal Audit Department, and there is no influence of the executive authority on the judicial authority. And the mechanism is needed, because as you said yourself, there is a possibility of a mistake. As HNS counterpart Beus Richembergh said, there is a possibility that some applications may remain in some drawers to catch dust on them, to keep some things unprocessed, and therefore these mechanisms provide supervision transparent, objective, within an independent system. Here I'd just like to not go in the wrong direction, and really believe that if such a law were to be provided for by us to control the executive authority of the court, it would be a big step back. It's definitely not the goal and it's not the goal when we built this system of functioning of the judiciary, the State's Attorney's Office, when we have these results in the fight against corruption, organised crime, that would be very serious, and that's definitely not the intention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72262	The HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72263	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Corruption is not only Croatia, but also present in other countries, and how much this depends on how much it is allowed to develop. However, the presence of corruption in developed countries with a longer democracy must not be an excuse for failing to combat it. This for amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime follows from requests for alignment with the European Union. In view of the fact that the mission of independent experts of the European Commission has had objections to a large number of rejected criminal charges, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia has made an analysis of the rejections from the jurisdiction of the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Office, and the number of rejections is no longer disputed, but recommendations for the closure of Chapter 23 have been introduced on the control of the rejection of criminal applications. It is disputed that in the event of the rejection of criminal charges for corruption and organised crime, the control of the office's decisions is not ensured in the event there are no damages, and therefore it is necessary to replace and supplement the existing law. Effective control of the rejection of criminal charges exists also in cases where there is a damage, which is familiar with the right to take charge, but in cases where there is no damage, or there is only a person who has filed a criminal application, or in cases where no criminal application has been filed, the office itself has decided, on the basis of its powers, to initiate the application procedure... criminal charges. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is no such control, and it is therefore necessary to secure it, and as this legislative proposal appears. It has ensured full transparency in the decision to reject criminal charges, from the jurisdiction of the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, through the College of the Office in the first degree, and in the second Department of Control of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. The Director is obliged, along with the delivery of the rejection solution, to instruct applicants that, within 15 days of the date of receipt of the solution, he may submit a complaint to the College of the Office, while the request for a decision to be based on the decision of the College of the Office may, within 15 days of the receipt of the solution, be submitted to the Office of State Attorneys of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, in the event of the rejection of a criminal application, it is required that there continue to be a competent four-step court, when the prosecution continues as a prosecutor, unlike an existing solution to which the criminal prosecution of the injured party may continue before the court who was regularly in charge. Furthermore, a delegation of cases from the jurisdiction of the office to another really competent court shall be allowed, where appropriate, to the circumstances of the criminal offence, and to the needs of the conduct of the proceedings, and in particular to combat corruption at the local level, where in some cases it is necessary to move the subject out of the middle that is locally competent to the second environment. When it comes to corruption and crime of any kind, it must not be untouchable, and the investigations we have recently witnessed show that the suppression of these evils is not only declarative. How many times have we heard that corruption has a negative effect on society as a whole, slows down and slows down its development, and makes it impossible to function normally, and costs even more, and we don't have six billion kunas a year. The eradication of corruption is necessary not only in order to join the EU, but rather in order for Croatia and its citizens, most of whom live fairly and work, to finally get an opportunity to build a society that appreciates knowledge, diligence and work that characterizes solidarity and commitment for the good of all, and not just some. Therefore, we at the HSS Club welcome and support all the efforts that appear to be in the repression and eradication of this social evil and we will also support these proposed changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72264	Thank you. IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72265	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Of course I agree with all those who spoke before me and said that they should not be untouchable, that they should not be privileged, that there is no one who is God's day, that there should be no one in this land above the law, that there should be no clear exceptions. It is clear that if the claims made by Mrs Ingrid were correct that the civil authority was entering the area of justice it would simply be the bottom of Croatian democracy. What is it? What does article 21. The USKOK Act, i.e., the Office for the conduct of the State's Attorney's Office's affairs in the offences in question, is then said to be responsible for: first, the bankruptcy proceedings referred to in Article 283. The Penal Code, then unfair competition in foreign trade, then abuses in the exercise of the duties of the state government, illegal mediation, bribery, bribery in economic activity referred to in Article 294. KZ, bribery and bribery in economic operations referred to in point (b) of Article 294. Then it states the abuse of the position and powers referred to in Article 337, the unlawful confiscation of freedom, trafficking in human beings, slavery and that I do not now list all these other provisions of this Article 21. But what's so important? To quote this introductory explanation of the law where it is literally said, I quote: "In fact, one of the remarks of the mission of independent experts and the European Commission regarding the work of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, in the following text of the office, was a large number of rejections of criminal charges. The Croatian State Attorney's Office has made an analysis of the rejections from the office's jurisdiction, and then it can be said that the number of rejections alone is no longer disputed. It has remained contentious and has been introduced into the closure criteria of Chapter 23 of the Recommendation on the Control of Disposal of Criminal Signs of These Reports." So, what do we have here? Europe is sending some remarks, okay? But you should also ask yourself who are often the applicants of criminal charges? Easy when it comes to police, easy when it comes to some other institutions, but often, I won't say too often, are anonymous individuals who, in this way, lead, dare say, a political war with their inexperiences. I put an emphasis on anonymous applications in this case because this application can be submitted to institutions by any citizen in the Republic of Croatia. Any unsigned application by my court should be clearly dismissed, i.e. by some persons who are being charged if they succeed in the dispute, after which they have whom to sue for damages. It is enough that someone who is unpunished can charge anyone with criminal acts or criminal acts. Such reports, such as that, I don't know after that processing, can be destroyed by gentlemen. Individuals here are helpless, they are hard or almost unable to simply, especially if they have no money, to defend themselves. It's enough for your name to appear I don't know in some media and you're under quotes after that "dead" man. How does that usually work? I don't know, this portal or this list simply publishes on the basis of I don't know the reliable data we find out that the State's Attorney's Office or USKOK has received an application for it and then, from word to word, it clearly conveys that application to you. This government, as Ingrid said, also loves to deal with such things. For that we have seen how to use the current morning which is, I dare say, nonsens. MPs are being agreed with ministers, ministers are clearly briefing, and then the public is "blahing" in those statements. And I don't think it would be a good idea for gentlemen to mess with the government. It's all coming back, the people say it's all paid. It's not simply a perspective policy for any government, for anyone who behaves executively or I don't know a judicial or any other function in this country. This law, so I agree that in some way of technical nature, it is mentioned here that the Director of USKOK, the applicant of the application, we now have the rapporteur here, we now have the College of USKOK, the DORH Supervisory Department, but we see that here we have clearly under quotes that he is not mentioned, but at their request this law is being launched, by a super-auditor, which is the EU. They say too few procedures have been launched from the USKOK responsibilities i.e. There's too much of these procedures, so I'm sorry, but it's been rejected. In this country, to be cynical, which has four million investigators, four million judges, four million potential applicants, these solutions that I know can pass, but I would even dare say even though we will vote for this law that there is no need. We create one body in the body. Maybe it's good, maybe it's bad I don't know. Now we're getting a reporter along with a college of USKOK and a department, a good DORH surveillance department already knows him by now. I think this is even unnecessary. Okay, if this is an EU request to close all these chapters, let it be, but we see and we should stress that this is simply not a European standard. Here, we see now how long it takes, today I read in the Vesnik that some people can be expected in Croatia at the end of the 5th month, I don't know if this is going to happen, but nobody, let's say, differs in the democraticity of the conduct of, say, the Austrian judiciary, but on the other hand, it is clear to us that the Croatian legal standard is not what the European standard is, although it is clear to everyone that no such solutions do not know any of the European legislation. It would be better if some implementing rules for sanctioning war crimes were passed, it might be less frustrating for whoever made them clear, maybe sooner to come to co-existence, I won't say that now the law is unnecessary if this is a condition for us to join the European Union, let's win it, but it might be better to talk about the revision of conversion, privatisation, etc. But gentlemen, we often simply adopt some solutions that are absolutely unknown, which may be harmful, as the next day will be the duty of not only the president of the state, the ministers, the state secretary, I don't know, the chief auditor, etc., to deliver that form that one administrative body has insight into all our accounts, let me say again, let's do it my way absolutely nothing against, but you know what I think the parliamentary representatives and officials should have protection like the last criminals in this country, at least so much, nothing more. So let the DORH do it, let the courts do it, not that some administrative body does it, because we all know that all administrations in this country are so confidential, that abuse to be cynical is almost impossible. All in all, once again, I will say, if the request of the European Union is, and it is, to supplement and amend the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, the conditions of closure of this Chapter 23, I think it is necessary to support it, but I also think that we should be fair in the light of clarity and say that this standard that the Republic of Croatia will apply tomorrow will hardly know any Western European democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72266	Thank you. HDSSB club Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72267	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary with colleagues. Here, Bill No. In 573, it does not bear the E. European mark, although on the first page we already find the text in which it states that it is one of the sub-measures in criterion 5, the suppression of corruption, and for the closure of Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights. This is necessary to amend the existing legal solution in order to meet this criterion. So, when Mr Cain says that he does not know Europe such a solution, I do not understand if this is measured in measure number 5 and in terms of the European Union, Chapter 23, which is imposed on us and which exists as the last chapter, amongst the last ones, and in connection with the closure and possible fulfilment of all the conditions in June this year, I say to the potential under a large questionnaire, although it does not matter either June or I don't know what. It's not clear to me, Mr. Minister, I'm not a lawyer, but with sound overthinking, I come up with certain questions and in terms of this text. Therefore, it is the rejection of criminal charges which are now subject to these criteria and this new draft amending law, two more filters are passing, two purgatory places to say, in order to eventually be rejected, or at some of these degrees, the filters prescribed by this Amendment to the Law, if there are conflicting opinions on the College and in the supervision, or to conclude that there are elements of the criminal application then move towards prosecution and proceedings. So he says that the practice so far speaks of that, that when it was necessary to ensure effective control of the rejection of criminal charges, these are, above all, those reports that were rejected in which there was no damage. When we talk about the DORH itself and the SCOTT and the criminal charges I really don't know that's what I do, that's what you're going to try to explain to me, that any application is filed for the act of corruption and crime and there are no damages. In every corruption, someone is damaged, in every crime and crime scene, someone is damaged. However, there are numerous applications signed by name and last name, I will dare bring cases here from my community from Brod-Posavina County where the person so-called. A whistler by name and last name cited the crimes committed in her company by the customs office Slavonski Brod, etc., and that today can be said by that Dalmatian "Stacked by a donkey wolf". So it's not an anonymous application, it's a application signed by the name and last name of the employee who worked there, she clearly got fired and no longer works there because the whistler has no protection for any whistlers. Furthermore, when we talk about the DORH and USKOK itself, here is your predecessor at the place of Justice Minister Ivan Šimonović, a respected official of the organisation of the United Nations, told the public, I have here and a paper where he says, "By the arrival of Jadranka Kosor, Bajic has received open arms". Well, it's going to be two years since Mrs. Kosor came in, somewhere in July, Mr. Bajic is a 10-year state lawyer, so here's a free hand he's only obviously two years after this and this kind of formulation as your former minister told the public. What was in handcuffs for eight years? What's been a secret for eight years? What's been in drawers for eight years, not only in state-level drawers but county state attorneys clearly in cooperation with the attorney general, I don't know if we'll ever find out. Are we ever going to find out all this because later on, it's said that politics is deeply, deeply involved in the work of the DORH, even though it belongs to the judiciary. But the very statement that Prime Minister Bajic's arrival has given him open arms means that politics before and now has influence. She used to have an impact on the state's attorney's office not to initiate procedures, and now to move but just some. That's why there are consultations that we read about in the papers here and there a little later in the evening, but there are consultations that I think the judiciary should be independent of, and by what's going on and who's all about persecution, I'm afraid there are elements of the agreement that are made by whom and who isn't. As far as the legal proposal itself is concerned, not only who but when and when, so the timing of how you like to say it is very important. As regards the legal proposal itself, therefore, the control of the rejection of criminal charges and the opinion of experts, that it may continue within two degrees of 15 days, are deadlines for appeal or appeal, etc. It's okay. With it not clear to me if the assistant director or director, will this hierarchy that exists and which is normal and which is in all ministries and then also in the DORH exist, if the assistant director of the DORH will decide to reject a criminal application, and the director has a different opinion, will there be dissuasion in the opinion, which will depend on the position of the assistant director to the Chief Director of State's Attorney? Is there going to be a situation where this subordination relationship in office will result in someone giving in and above all one who is lower than the opinion of the attorney general? Therefore, since we have been truthfully speaking before when we discussed the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime since there are certain and rejections of applications and those reports when there is no damage, I would ask the Ministers to ask you, when there is no damage to any application. When is there no damage? The HDSSB Club will remain in line with this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime with the Final Proposal to remain abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72268	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72269	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to say, first of all, that this law should be absolutely supported for two basic reasons. Therefore, it does ensure effective control of the rejection of criminal charges. It is therefore an institute that we have not had so far and just these amendments and additions to the law can be effectively controlled or controlled by the complaints made by all those criminal charges that have been rejected. And secondly, which is forgotten in terms of discussions on these institutes therefore also allows for a delegation of cases from the office's jurisdiction to another really competent court where this is appropriate to the circumstances of the criminal offence committed and the need to conduct the criminal proceedings. It is not to be specifically noted when we have now heard what has led to these amendments and the addition of the law. In fact, experts and EU experts have seen some problems, problems in terms of the inability to control those criminal returns that have been rejected and proposed and have started to debate and in expert circles to find a certain solution. And this solution is absolutely in line with our Constitution, this solution is not aimed at controlling anyone or anything, especially not the executive authorities in relation to the judiciary, independent and segment of the State's Attorney's Office as an essential segment of the functioning of an independent judiciary, but has been found and proposed concrete legal solutions in which, in the context of the State's attorney's office in the first instance, through internal supervision that all those criminal applications that have been rejected and controlled have been made subject to the complaints made. Now, if we do an analysis in terms of practice so far, and we find it reading reports on the work of the state's attorneys in which in these situations, how many of these rejections were and what is behind what is said in practice. And let me put out specific numbers in a few sentences. In 2009, the number of discards in the jurisdiction of the BUSKOK and whenever we talk about amendments and additions to this law, it was estimated that the number of rejections was relatively high. So it's 664 rejections. However, 48 reports have been rejected for organised crime, 601 applications have been rejected for corruption crimes and 15 applications for other crimes. In most cases, I repeat, in most cases it was the rejection of criminal charges for abuse of office. It's mostly about applications, and I want to point out that, in large part, or mainly about applying against judges, applying against state attorneys and officials in the administration. Therefore, citizens who were dissatisfied with the decision taken for their application submit new applications for abuse of positions, believing that the dispute should have been settled in their favour so as not to conclude that corruption is involved. This is a quote from a report on the work of the state's attorney's office, and that's the rule of the situation that we can take under this fact-finding court. For example, we have a litigation procedure in which different parties are involved. The verdict is in favour of one of them, we have a report from the dissatisfied party that since the case has not been resolved in his favor that it is in his view of corrupt behavior in this case of the judge. It may also be a state lawyer or it may also be an official in the authorities of the state administration who decides on a specific request. So, for these reasons, to demystify these things, that is, for these reasons, it is my opinion that we need to make this change because in the extreme line we allow all those who say even I have filed a criminal complaint and there is nothing to do with it, and even if we want to, we have had the opportunity to hear about it on behalf of the clubs, and even in those situations, it will, in the first place, be seen by fellow state lawyers, what it is actually about, and the decision being made. Not to say that internal control of the state's attorney's office is, therefore, in some sense, the functioning of the state's attorney's office as a whole has the same possibility. So, by accepting this solution in the first place, this kind of uncertainty zone or something that remains unspeakable or remains in the air, and many times is actually the means of one, can be a means of manipulation and manipulation. We have a purely legal situation here when a criminal application is rejected, so the damage victim can file a complaint, we have a procedure, which is how and by what regulation is then decided, we have the competent authorities within the state's attorney's office who, of course, make the right decision. And of course it's a good solution that these bodies are within the state's attorney's office. These are neither the judicial authorities nor any administrative bodies, so it cannot be spoken or debated in such a way that, by proposing this law, the executive authority has now carried out any pressure in this regard. So, the decision is a state's attorney's office and will remain a state's attorney by this complaint when we talk about the rejection of criminal charges. Absolutely, therefore, the law needs to be supported, the question is whether it is necessary, not necessary, whether it can be applied according to the principle of purpose, and then in some practice so far, in our legislation, this was not the case, it was not envisaged as an institute, which is why we are now introducing it. So any newspaper that will remove all of this let's say disagreements or unresolved things, if it's accurate, if it's good, if it's good, and it seems to me, not that it seems to me but it certainly is, so we need to accept it so that we can take all those inaccuracies, all those inaccuracies when it comes to rejections of criminal applications are actually avoided and the state lawyers will simply apply these provisions of the law to come into a position that in two degrees is evident about this issue and certainly we can't talk about that decision being more quality, it's going to have a stronger foothold, and not to say that it has more weight not only in the circles of the profession, in the circles of the court or the state's attorney, but what's also very important in public because that decision will have its own support, whatever it is. It will have its support in terms and procedures, in terms of profession, in terms of precisely prescribed procedural rules as to how it should be adopted. So in that sense, in support of this law and I also end up, I'm going to conclude with this debate, it's a little change, it's a couple of articles of the law, but it's the same rock in that mosaic that we agree and bring to an end, we bring it to an end, and that's just that chapter 23. Justice and human rights, and this is exactly one of those important little pebbles that will complete that picture so that we can also negotiate in this section, so Chapter 23, very quickly bring to an end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72270	Thank you. At 11,42, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Replica, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72271	You tell a colleague when there is a rejection of a criminal application that no attack is considered to allow the police to point out, to object that a colleague from the State's Attorney's Office, even though the college has been re-solved in such a way, would also decide that there is more transparency. That way it can be understood so layically, however, if we have in mind that the State Attorney's Office, which we have just given authority to have it oversee the police exactly as it has acted on their orders and therefore bear responsibility, we are moving slowly, step by step, allowing there, however, to be provoked by the police themselves by additional control. No one is opposed to additional control, but within the system itself, because this is still one violation of independence and a step further perhaps tomorrow and participates in this very decision on the application itself. It's something that modern law, the modern system doesn't know, doesn't know it, doesn't exist anywhere. Find me the system that has it. Maybe it's the law and the famous thing about what his name was, the Perills in Italy, and only in one part. It doesn't exist anywhere. So, instead of having control of the State's Attorney's Office because we gave him such powers that for the tasks in the process of processing, the detection of criminal offences, the initiation of the proceedings strengthened that responsibility, we went in a different way. If it is necessary to control some of these decisions I am speaking and already one step ahead is made, that such decisions are made publicly on the pages of the State's Attorney's Office and that you have well explained. It's the best way to control you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72272	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72273	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleagues, it's probably clear to you that this is just not about the relationship between the police and the state's attorney's office. This is about anyone who can file criminal charges, and everyone is obliged to file a criminal report when, according to his knowledge, he notices or points out that a criminal offence has been committed. It's in the front row. And secondly, when you talk about control of who controls whom, and the mechanisms of control by appeal, remain within the State's Attorney's office. All of yours would be what is said to be justified and in line in terms of a negative approach to this law that someone else in the segment will not tell the judiciary but even some other institutions are controlling it, but again, according to the complaint, the State's Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney's College. So it's in a wider lineup. I guess then these decisions are better, better explained by more and more professions and experiences than when an individual makes it regardless of who it really was. What you're saying is there's no such example anywhere, so I wouldn't agree with you. So, controls whether they're prescribed in exactly this way or not in a sense exist. They exist in the very functioning of the state's attorney's office, the public prosecutor's office. This is only one way to object in all those situations where criminal charges are rejected, and when a party who is not satisfied with such a decision is actually objecting to this decision being taken by the College of State's Attorneys. And what I have to stress again is so illogical, it doesn't come out so much from the provisions of this law that I'm actually surprised at why you're pointing out what's unproven. And you want to prove that the Executive Authority, or the Ministry, is putting pressure on the State's Attorney's Office. And everything you said also goes counter or the opposite. How pressure can be placed on an independent judicial body if you give it a legal mechanism to control its own decision. And he's in control. It's not done by the ministry, it's not done by the court, it's not done by the administration. So, the State's Attorney's College is running under quotes that control. What kind of pressure is there then? What kind of mechanisms are these, I don't know what you're opposed to these very solutions, and those solutions are diametrically opposite of what you're talking about. And basically, this is not about solving some of the alleged conflicts between the State's Attorney's office and the police, it's about resolving all those situations where criminal charges are rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72274	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72275	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. How and why does the bill come to this? The reason and direct reason to propose this law is the Bajic-Karamarko conflict. What was the result of a conflict in the public, in the newspapers, in the media? Police, therefore, the interior ministry, so the executive power, so Minister Karamarko, has decided to file criminal charges against two members of the SDP presidency. And that's the decision she made. Penalties have been filed. The state's attorney's office considered criminal charges and rejected them as unfounded. It was a typical example of false reporting. It means committing a felony of false reporting. A classic example of political reckoning through the judiciary. Indignant that the state's attorney's office rejected his criminal charges, the minister, therefore a politician, so the executive power in the public attacked a state's attorney in the paper. In order to enable Karamark to do so institutionally in the future, and not only in the newspapers, so as a politician and as an executive power to attack an independent judicial authority, this law is proposed. We have in 2009 664 rejections of criminal charges in USKOK cases. It's a big number. What's he talking about? On the one hand, it speaks of one awareness of citizens who are moved to report suspicions of committing corruption and organised crime, even when they do not have enough evidence but appear to have been corruption committed somewhere, so they report it. We have cases and political accounting that I've been talking about, and such criminal charges can also be filed for personal revenge, impatience, conflict of any other completely unfair reason. The state's attorney's office rejects such unfounded criminal charges. What is the logic of the State's Attorney's Office? The state's attorney's office is going to prosecute whenever there's even the slightest chance that he can succeed in court, whenever he sees the slightest possibility that he'll get a conviction from the State's Attorney's office, he's going after him and he says, "Let the court decide," but I'll charge him. The state's attorney's office rarely, exceptionally in their conscience, according to the conscience of the people sitting there, rejects criminal charges if they're justified. Instead of the state's attorney's office in these two cases that I've been talking about, it has brought a direct charge against the defendants of false criminal charges for false reporting, instead of taking to the court the minister of Karamark or the police chief, the police chief, because it is unacceptable for the police to file a false criminal charges when an ignorant citizen does so can understand that. He doesn't know the right thing to do. Seems to him there's corruption there after all. But the police who have criminals, who have lawyers, who have a sufficient number of experts who can properly assess whether the application is justified or not, when the police make such a failure, when a minister representing the interests of a political option does so, then it is a classic example of false reporting that the State's Attorney's Office was to pursue. The state's attorney didn't show those teeth. He didn't say, so you're not going to file any criminal charges, so I'm not going to bother you about it, so since he didn't exactly show his teeth here's what's happening to him. It is proposed that the law under which the police will now be able to assess this qualified decision, appeal it twice, and the criminal application will be unsettled or unauthorized throughout that time, so this political difamation that it is going to take a little longer, that is, the intensity of this law. You say the college will decide. So what do you think, well you know that, Ministers, so you know very well, and today it's decided in college about all the important cases, and even today the deputy state attorney is asking the chief state attorney and the guidance and advice, and the state's attorney is calling a college in every more complicated case, as doctors for God's sakes in a complicated case are doing in a consulate, it's the nature of the work of responsible people. And when they make a decision about rejection, then they need to be trusted. Now, you say this will apply, so it gets rid of itself, fills in one void when there are no damages, so there's no private damage. Who's the bad guy? The Republic of Croatia then, the Republic of Croatia. And who should protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia? State's attorney's office. Who else. And now some ignorant party is going to demand that the State's Attorney's College, and then this surveillance wastes time to control his so-called report. Those in charge of protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Not him, they're in charge. That'll be done by the police, among other things. Well, it's not the police who are in charge of protecting these interests, it's the State's Attorney's Office. That's what they're supposed to do. Here is a colleague, Tomljanovic, well cited examples from the report. The neighbors complain, they have a case of some kind over the property, one loses the dispute, and he reports the judge is corrupt, that he took money from the counterparty, and that he ruled for it. That's how he bothers because he thinks he's right. The state's attorney's office is throwing it away. He filed charges against the state's attorney who rejected it. He's burdening this system. And instead of filing a criminal report against him for false reporting, he's still going and his favorite, now let him continue to bury that system with his appeals. You will hereby resist the fight against corruption, as you will give state lawyers and deputies the job of 664 false applications, rejected reports to consider twice more. And he won't be able to deal with it, he won't be able to pursue criminals, anyway, we've been waiting for some state-of-the-art decisions for a long, long time. I'm not going to mention the affairs that took five years for the State's Attorney's Office to react. I'll mention, here's a river market where two years of state's attorney's decision has not been made, and it's supposed to be. Why not? We're wondering why she's not like this or something. And now these people won't be able to work on these cases anymore, they won't be able to, but they'll be dealing with 664 complaints in two degrees, so that's two, one thousand and 200, because they'll be complaining once, and they'll throw him away, and they'll complain again, and they won't be coming after criminals, but they'll be dealing with Karamark's complaints about rejecting his false criminal charges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72276	Thank you. Corrections. Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72277	Thank you very much. So it is an incorrect allegation that has been repeated three, four times, and in the last sentence of the honourable representative, that the police, Minister Karamarko, had filed false charges, that they had falsely reported. This is incorrect, my colleague is not about false reporting, but about reporting the perpetrators of criminal offences and criminal charges, and all the time, I'm going to dare to tell myself the mustache terms of rejection of criminal charges from non-registration of criminal charges, you mentioned Rijeka markets yourself, something else happened there, it was all expensive in the drawer, until the basic crime was outdated, and that second segment that should have been covered by criminal charges and ended in Osijek at the decision-making. That's what this is about. You have to be precise. So there's been a criminal application here, a non-discussion of putting the case in the drawer, resulting in the expiry of the time limit and the obsolescence of the basic crime. And the object itself is no longer solved, you mentioned the Rijeka markets in Rijeka, but in Osijek. That's two very different things.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72278	Mr. Representative Josip Djakić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72279	Mr. Vice President, so it's absolutely incorrect, even untrue that Mr. Karamarko is filing criminal charges. That's what the police directorate does, the department of crime police, who, with knowledge collected on the ground, file criminal charges. And secondly, I would like to stress that your debate today on the bill is certainly contradictory with your debate in the State's Attorney's Office's work report. So I don't know what you're talking about today, what you were talking about then.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72280	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72281	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a completely false representation of fellow Stazic where this law actually leads to some kind of war between Bajic and Karamark. I am glad that my colleague is protecting Mr. Bajic, who he voted against when it was due to extend his mandate, but it is absolutely true that he does not work in Bajic's cases. Finally, there are a number of state lawyers, we have seen that there have been such, such solutions, some of which have been killed, and the example of the river is actually well listed by you, where you really need to control and the State's Attorney's office, because there are not protected interests of the state, but local SDP authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72282	Replications. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72283	Now, as we suspected, we now know what Mr. Markovanovic's mouth is about, that we need to control the state's attorney's office, and... He's giving it to the police. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So by the law of the police, what does the police do? Except for that preventive action, in this repressive part. So he discovers the perpetrator of the crime, collects evidence, provides clues, does all of this on his own, and much more on the initiative as the State's Attorney's office tells him. Her independent police work is stopped by filing a criminal report, can be satisfied and dissatisfied, almost, amen. They do not participate in the process, nor can they participate in the process in any way. In this way at the small door, we let them out of the window to participate the police in... It can't be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The police are only executives, except that the executive body, the executive body, is indeed the execution in the hands of the perpetrator himself, in the hands and on the orders of the State Attorney's Office. And how can we control the State's Attorney's Office, gentlemen? We found a mechanism for it, but you refused. We were introduced in 2003 for judicial officials who are unconsciously doing their job. That's what you refused. That's what you considered an assault on the judiciary. So, that there's a judicial official, either a state attorney or a judge, is acting unlawfully, damages either the state or, for the benefit of one party, we've allowed it to be a criminal offence. This crime has also existed in our legal, in our legislation, until the so-called criminal act. Criminal mini-reforms in 1996 when the untraceable went missing. We need this crime, so let an independent court decide whether it was a criminal offence, not as counterpart Markovanovic says correctly that police are controlling, that police should be controlled. ... It's not the language. It's the right language. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72284	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72285	Well, I think it's normal to react here because my colleague puts a sentence in my mouth that I didn't say. I didn't say the police should be controlled. Let them control themselves, but let them be controlled here and there, except for cases where they go to SDP for the benefit, right? Then they don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72286	Replication response, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72287	State's Attorney's office, interesting question. Who can control the state's attorney's office? Here, counterpart Markovanovic says the State's Attorney's Office must be controlled. The State Attorney's Office may either control itself or be subject to judicial review on the basis of some criminal application. This desire, the work of the State Attorney's Office, is somewhat controlled by Parliament through the election of the Attorney General when assessing his work after one term. And when Parliament, when elected representatives of citizens say you did your job well, you chased criminals, you got results or told him you kept quiet for 5 years, you didn't do anything, and then you woke up suddenly. And even when they judge him as we have evaluated him, we will defend the rights of the state's attorney of this and of any other person before any attempt by the executive to govern his actions or to control his actions. Because it's a matter of principle, colleague Markovanovic, it might be a little harder to understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72288	Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72289	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Trailer, I'll give it to you. I've raised the line because you like to say that we in HDZ are afraid of you, so we're only correcting your incorrect allegations. But you've said all sorts of things here that the reason for this bill is Bajic and Karamarko, and it all actually comes down to the fact that the SDP thinks it's really the belly button of the world. Why? This whole debate of yours, all of this goes against three rejected criminal charges compared to some members of the SDP. You said yourself that the state's attorney's report resulted in 664 rejections. What about all the others? You attacked the police, do you have any information as to how many of these 664 dropped criminal charges as to how many police criminal charges? Could it have been citizens who had doubts somewhere that it was corruption crimes, so they filed criminal charges, and they were rejected, and they still doubted because they had data and why wouldn't the possibility that only the State's Attorney's Office was in control of the decision of a state attorney? So the collective body controls it. It's true, the State's Attorney's office is in control of the court. But it is also true that the State's Attorney's Office has the possibility if, in the first degree, it is dissatisfied with the court's decision to appeal and to have a second-degree decision. Why do we think that the applicant of criminal charges, which is not, I stress, only the police, which is every citizen, which you are, I'm asking you here all the time to talk about Karamark who submits false criminal charges. So, he can't stand them, that's what counterpart Djakic told you who filed criminal charges, but did you, as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, file criminal charges against those you consider to be false? So, you have a regulated state, a regulated legal system, so file a criminal report, don't talk about it all the time. So that, as in the case of the Rijeka Market, it is finally established whether these false reports were a felony of false application or not. But precisely because the applicant of a criminal application had no opportunity to object in the case of the Rijeka Market, for example, and he could not have had the possibility to ask the State Attorney's Office why the application was in the drawer, 80 million kunas of damage to the city of Rijeka evaporated because the perpetrator was obsolete, and this application will probably be rejected because it would be a failure of passive legitimacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72290	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72291	I did not file criminal charges against a false application for the fact that the State's attorney's office to whom that criminal application was filed and which made a state's attorney's decision that it was unfounded and which rejected it had only the possibility of a direct charge, the initiation of the proceedings. The second reason I didn't file a criminal charges for false reporting is because I don't think the State's Attorney's Office and the judiciary should even be a field of political competition. Third, no criminal charges have been filed against 3 members of the SDP, but against 3 SDP presidency members with the aim of dispossessing the entire party. And fourthly, the rejected criminal application when filed in such cases and against prominent persons means false reporting. This is not tolerated by a citizen who may be ignorant and may seem, who may be suspected of committing a crime, but cannot assess all the elements, does not know whether he has at all relevant evidence, when it is done by the police with his criminals, with his lawyers, with his professional staff, when he does so on purpose and consciously then it is a false application by the dictatorship of politics, by the dictatorship of Minister Karamark.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72292	Thank you. Final review, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72293	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you for the debate, and I want to return to the essence of the law once again in the end. There were a lot of qualifications, there were claims that it was small changes, technical changes, to even those who said this was Stalinist law, that it was a little mustache law, but I'm going back to being. The point of this law is that the possibility of error is reduced to the least possible measure. Here again, I would like to resolutely decline that this law is trying to introduce the control of the executive authority over the judiciary. There is no speech about it, it does not say in any article anything that would go in the direction of the executive authority’s influence on the judiciary. It's not there. We simply want to realise the possibility of a mistake in rejecting criminal charges to the minimum possible extent, although if we look at the results of the State's attorney's office we can trust their work, because of the 10 charges that come before the court almost 9 ends with judgments, that means that they have good judgments. However, criminal charges, filing criminal charges is one, accusing the other, making a third sentence, because when someone submits a criminal report, everyone can see and believe that he is competent, that he is professional, to assess that some crime has been committed somewhere. When such a criminal application comes before the state's attorney's office, now it is necessary to analyse whether there is evidence, whether these claims, whether or not a description of the crime is even entered into the criminal zone, and only when all these matters are covered by the state's attorney's office's case. Now, is all that enough to be decided by the court and explicitly through the verdict? There is a certain part of the application that is being rejected, and we want to do this just to allow that before the final rejection, each application is re-analysed twice, to see whether there are two more elements to act or not. Because right now in this present situation, it must not depend on one man, a state attorney who believes there are no elements. So here as a citizen who's filed a criminal complaint, I have the right to object to my application being decided by the College and then by the Department of Internal Affairs. So, to be told transparently whether I was wrong, whether I see it well or not, and that's the only purpose and purpose of this law. It was a question of whether it was a police conflict, whether it was a conflict of the Ministry of the Interior, the DORH, I'll say why in the last 10 years, it's been common in the last two years, so many cases, simply because we have better instruments, we have a better normative framework, we have a better criminal law on criminal proceedings than we had before. counterpart Anticevic spoke of a previous law on criminal proceedings that set three stages, one in front of the police, the other in front of the state's attorney's office, the third in court. We now have a law on criminal proceedings that offers much better tools, much better mechanisms of action, and it is simply seen, the conflict of the Ministry of the Interior and the State's Attorney's Office, the best of these are the results that we have in the processing of the very crimes of organised crime and police. So, I thank everyone once again for the debate but really the point of the law is to improve a system that is already good but any system can be better. Here we go to that little segment we want to realize the possibility of error to the least possible extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72294	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72295	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 753 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted an amendment. In accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure on such an amendment must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Whoever agrees to hold the debate on the government's amendment, please raise your hand. Against? Restraint? Two. It has been accepted to discuss the government's amendment. Now I'm opening a debate on the government's amendment. I ask that the motionary's representative explain the government's amendment, and then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72296	Thank you, Mr. President. So very briefly, the amendment that introduces the secret vote of the USKOK College of Directors in the case of the rejection of criminal applications, but only when there are no damages, further increased objectivity has been added, and although secrecy has already been incorporated into the DORH Rules of Procedure, we consider this further strengthened objectivity and transparency of the conduct of USKOK.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72297	Thank you. I'm opening an amendment debate. Is there? Yeah. On behalf of the club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72298	Well, here's a little short, so I don't have to go out at all. On Monday, by Wednesday, I think one of the last meetings of our Joint Parliamentary Committee of the EU and Croatia, where people from the European Commission and the EU will be familiar with what some expert group has been doing and forced the ministry, thereby and the Government, to see whether it is conscious or unconscious, in error. So, just as one contribution to the closure of Chapter 23, we now and with this amendment where the government explicitly says that the police are the controllers of the USKOK independent judicial body. It is now seen in the explanation of the amendment. Some MPs wanted to disprove it from the ruling coalition, just like that, I don't know what verb they used, but certainly they were running away from that verb that is the only one and corresponds to this unprecedented attack on the system. So, we're not talking about a certain personnel combination, about the good work of one segment or another, we're defending a system in which it's inadmissible that on the threshold of Europe where nowhere in Europe this is not set up by the police is controlled by an independent judicial body. Such a constitution has been adopted by the consent of all of us here and such a provision has been incorporated. These are dangerous precedents which, the question is how in certain personnel combinations they can reflect. If it is necessary to strengthen within the state's attorney's office itself, it is not questionable. At the end of their colleges, departments do so in view of the hierarchy and structure as defined and structured by the State Attorney's Office are not questionable. But we give the police the authority to control the State's Attorney's Office, so the executive section is unmarked in EU countries. So here's why we're distracting you once again to think about pulling this off, because I'm speaking and Commissioner Stefan Füle wasn't familiar with it, he's now familiar with it, and he's just disgusting himself with that fact. Think again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72299	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72300	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I really don't know what my colleague Anticevic Marinović is talking about, does she talk about this bill? So, this amendment does not change anything in relation to the bill except how the colleges of state lawyers decide, but, as we said in the debate, no police control over the state's attorney. The State Attorney's Office is an independent body under the Constitution, it is only that the applicants of a criminal application, and I repeat, the applicant of a criminal application may be any citizen of the Republic of Croatia, may be the police, may be a state body having the right to rule after his criminal application has been rejected in the event where there is no damage, he has the right to object, it is one democratic procedure and he will not decide by the police at any time, but will decide the body of the State's attorney, first of all to the College of State's Attorneys and then the supervisory authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72301	Thank you. We have Mr. Shime Luchin's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72302	Thank you very much. Well, I'm actually correcting the incorrect assumption that this law has confirmed and found that the State's Attorney's Office is independent. That's not true. It is this law that confirms the independence of the state's attorney. The government goes so far as to prescribe a decision-making process, so you are now imposing on a state attorney how he will lead his colleagues, whether he will vote in secret, whether publicly, I think this is still a precedent, so it is impossible to accept not only this amendment but the entire law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72303	Thank you. Correction by Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72304	This is right now, in the light of this amendment, the Government said, in the light of the fact that the introduction of a transparent control of the rejection of criminal charges is, therefore, talking precisely about the control of the rejection of criminal charges, which it provokes and whose authority to control this work is given to the Ministry of the Interior i.e. to the Ministry of Interior. The police are still saying there's no damage. So isn't the prosecution in the state interest, and whenever the criminal body that... is carrying out it has damages and the damage is just a public interest, and that public interest by our Constitution, by all the laws we've given to the state's attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72305	Mrs. Anna Lovrin has reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72306	The representative did not in any way correct my claim but was saying what the government said in the context of this amendment. And what should be pointed out is that no one else controls the state's attorney's office should therefore distinguish the control of the state's attorneyship from the control of an act which is the rejection of a application which controls the right state's attorney's office, in the end as in the courts, the first-degree decision is controlled by a second-degree court or the Supreme Court in the case where it is permitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72307	Madam Secretary of State Tatjana Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72308	Thank you very much, Mr. President, very briefly. So we don't know the conclusion that this is how the police are going to control the state's attorney's office. This was often mentioned in the discussions as the Law was discussed. That's just not true. First of all, it's not only the police who file criminal charges with the state's attorney's office, so it's not the only one who would possibly control it, but I really don't know in any way, given that the control of the rejection of criminal charges is being conducted exclusively by the state's attorney. The fact is, and I must say that there have been different proposals and that there have been different proposals by the European Commission itself to reject criminal charges only in these cases and only for Jumping cases, because it is not a matter of rejection of all criminal applications but of a very narrow nature, the proposals were to be the Jumping Department of the County Court, which was absolutely unacceptable by the constitutionality of such provisions, so at the moment the Government of the Republic of Croatia had to, as the European Commission proposed, and asked us to close Chapter 23. I would be very pleased if Mr Füle had written his opinion and that we had this opinion before we entered the whole procedure of amending this law, but what we have received in writing from the European Commission and from the Directorate for Justice and Fundamental Rights is precisely that we have to ensure that the application is controlled, the rejection of criminal charges. At that moment, at that moment, we asked for the least painful solution and for everything to remain within the framework of an institution that decides on criminal charges. And I think we've found a good solution and in this way absolutely, again, it's the state's attorney's office that controls the rejection of criminal charges, so it didn't come out of the system, and I don't think that it's an absolute possibility for the police to control the state's attorney's office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72309	Thank you, we have a correction. Mrs. Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72310	Simply this search, we've now heard the State Secretary's argument that it's simply looking for a commission. But don't you remember a year and a half ago when we changed the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, those same two characters, and the same two people asked us here in the Croatian Assembly... They decide in college that they're not on their own. [[The speech room has been shut down, not understood.]] Now, please, let's have some self-respect, let's show that we know something maybe more than these two people who, in this way, a year ago looking for something quite the opposite, and we please all of this as if we don't have common sense. After all, our own judicial institutions have opposed this destabilization, the deconcentration of their work because it interferes with their work. They didn't make their own deal because they forgot what they were asking us to do. And we just... [[The speech room has been shut down, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72311	Calling for a reminder is not a correction to an incorrect quote, so I am closing the debate and voting on the amendments to the government. Let's please get involved and vote on the amendment to the government. Score. The government's amendment was accepted by a majority of 77 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 23 against. Please, where's the other amendment? The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by representative Ana Lovrin. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they are an integral part of the final proposal for a law under Article 169. Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of this law require most of all MPs in the Assembly, so at least 77. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime. Please engage and vote on the law, along with the amendments adopted. Score. This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 78 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 20 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72312	We will skip points 2 and 3 because the relevant committees have not delivered their reports yet. We're going to point 4. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Financial Police Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 757. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget, you received reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Maric will further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72313	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In short lines, therefore, the basic reason for the submission of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Police Act is the harmonisation and harmonisation of procedural provisions of specific laws with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, as well as the follow-up of Articles 4 and 8 of the proposed amendments and additions to Articles 10 and 18 of the applicable law, which in effect fully aligns the procedural provisions of the Financial Police Act with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Let me also say that, in addition to harmonising with the General Administrative Procedure Act in force, certain amendments have been made that we can say were also necessary, in order to bring this Act in line with also the laws on excise duties, the Law on criminal proceedings, the Criminal Law, the Law on Contributions, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of State Administration. Furthermore, by the Government of the Republic of Croatia I believe that you all know well, the so-called AFKOS network aimed at protecting the European Union's financial interests and direct cooperation with the European Commission's Anti-Fraud Office, whose financial police are a member. In accordance with the above, the Financial Police shall cooperate with that Office,... the detection of international fraud and fraud within the European Union, and in particular circular fraud, as well as fraud against the budget and funds of the European Union. Let me do the same only in the end to say these proposed amendments, by the Committee on Legislatives the Government accepts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72314	Thank you. At 13:30 in the hall of Stjepan Radić, the chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr. Representative Petar Selem scheduled a meeting of the Committee at 13:30 today. Today. The Legislative Committee? The Finance Committee and the State Budget? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club Mr. Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72315	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Director, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Here is a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Police Act, which is fully logically proposed to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Finally, a whole package of other specific laws that comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act, which is also one of the conditions for closing negotiations with the EU in Chapter 23 - Justice and Fundamental Rights. For this very reason, the HDZ Representatives Club will fully support this but also, of course, a series of other laws that I have mentioned at the outset. On this obligation, therefore, to comply with procedural provisions and specific laws, as well as the Financial Police Act with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, and in the context of compliance with the criteria of Chapter 23 – the judiciary and the fundamental rights of the central authorities of the State Administration, the Government of the Republic of Croatia warned through the Office of the Chief Negotiators for EU Accession Negotiations. It is also necessary to say how the proposed amendments and additions, other than compliance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, the Financial Police Act, are in line with the provisions of a series of other laws, i.e. the Law on Expenses, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on the System of State Administration, the Law on Contributions, the Criminal Law, the Customs Service Act, and the Law on the implementation of the conduct of the law over monetary means, noting that wording and explicit harmonisation are largely involved, and more precise and clear regulation of certain provisions of the law. For this very reason, after I say a few sentences in general about the Financial Police Act, I refer only to those in my humble opinion of the most important and essential amendments to this law in this debate. The Financial Police Act, which was adopted in 2004, was established by the Financial Police as an administrative organisation within the Ministry of Finance whose primary task is to carry out financial supervision, to strengthen the financial discipline of budgetary taxpayers, to combat the informal economy and to prevent and avoid payment of budgetary commitments, and all in order to achieve the prescribed budgetary revenues. The law regulates the work, governance structure and business of the financial police, as well as the exercise of the powers and obligations of the employees of the Financial Police. The Central Office of Financial Police, based in Zagreb and the Financial Police Station, has been established to carry out the activities of the Financial Police. And the Financial Police are run by the director who's here with us today. In accordance with the provisions of Article 5(1) of the applicable law which will remain following the adoption of the proposed amendments and additions, the Financial Police shall carry out financial supervision, legality, regularity and timeliness of the accounts for the application and payment of budgetary revenue and the compensation of the prescribed specific laws, which shall clearly state its importance for the fiscal stability of the Republic of Croatia. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Financial Police Act has proposed, inter alia, the amendment of Article 5 of the applicable law and its paragraph 2 under which the Financial Police specifically oversee the production and transport of petroleum products, tobacco products, beer, alcohol, coffee and non-alcoholic beverages in order to determine the correctness of the accounts and the timeliness of the payment of the special tax. The amendment is proposed on the grounds that the tax system of special taxes, in accordance with the new 2009 excise duty law, which came into force at the beginning of 2010 and which is in line with the EU acquis in a slightly different way. In fact, the law mentioned refers to the so-called so-called law. EU harmonised excise duties on alcohol and on alcoholic beverages, including beer, tobacco products, energy and electricity. The law also stipulates that the supervision of the production of excise products is carried out by the accounting and paying of excise duties, the inventory of supplies, the use of dedicated uses, the dispatch and movement of excise products, and the keeping of records by the Financial Police, which is an additional reason for the need to bring the Financial Police Act in line with the provisions of the Excise Act. It is still necessary to say here that the system of taxation by special taxes on other coffee products, non-alcoholic beverages, motor vehicles, vessels, aircraft and luxury products has remained unchanged and has therefore remained unchanged in the amended Article 5. The law on financial police leaves a provision on the part of the Financial Police in terms of the supervision, production and transport of these products, as well as the accounting and timely payment of the special tax. Furthermore, it is proposed to extend the work cycle of the Financial Police, which will also carry out evidence actions entrusted by the State's Attorney's Office in the future. In accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act introduced by the Institute of Investigations and procedures relating to the detection of international tax and financial fraud, fraud within the EU, and in particular the so-called Circular fraud and fraud at the expense of EU funds, which implies close cooperation between the financial police as members of the AFCOS network of our national network with the European Commission's Anti-Fraud Office, etc. OLAF. I will just look back at Article 4 of the amendment and supplementation of the Financial Police Act, which refers to compliance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act in terms of handling in administrative matters. By way of effect of the new 2009 General Administrative Procedure Act, which took place on 1 January 2010, the Law on General Administrative Procedure, which was published in the National Journal 53/91, ceased to apply. and 103/96. the year and according to which there was the possibility that certain issues of the procedure for certain administrative areas should be governed by specific laws in a different way, allowing the subsidiarity of the General Administrative Procedure Act to be applied in relation to certain specific laws. Such a possibility simply doesn't exist anymore. Since Article 3 of the New Law on General Administrative Procedure is regulated as its provisions apply in the procedure in all administrative matters, only certain issues of administrative procedure can be regulated differently. If this is necessary for action in certain administrative areas, and if such action is not contrary to the basic provisions and the purpose of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Therefore, there is no longer the possibility of the subsidiary application of the General Administrative Procedure Act in relation to specific laws but the specific laws may possibly be subsidized to the General Administrative Procedure Act. It is precisely for the purposes of the proposed amendment to the provision of Article 10 of the applicable law in such a way that the Financial Police will apply the General Administrative Procedure Act to administrative matters, and only for certain matters of the procedures specific to the tax administration will be able to apply the provisions of the General Tax Code. Finally, for all of the above purposes, the need to bring national legislation into line with European but also the need to bring it into line with each other, the HDZ Representative Club will support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72316	Thank you. It is the turn of the HNS club, HSU's esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72317	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is obvious that the changes in a whole series of other laws have led to a situation in which amendments and amendments to the Financial Police Act should be made to avoid discrepancies, so that there are no illogical solutions, and that is not only the General Administrative Procedure Act, but as we see a whole series of regulations from the Law on the establishment of the State Administration and further which should be applied in the text of this law. Generally speaking, the HNS and HSU club will not object to these amendments and additions because it is true that, in consequence of the amendments to the General Administrative Procedure Act, it is necessary to approach the harmonisation of a whole set of other laws in order to meet the criteria set out in negotiating chapters 23. But we want to point to a specific situation that is now happening and will not be removed until the end of these amendments and additions, which is what is defined in Article 7 of this proposed law, or by the way in which Article 16. The Financial Police Act. In fact, it would be very good if the situation in which they are not entirely at the end of the secure demarcation of not only powers but also areas of action between the tax administration, customs administration and the financial police would then be resolved by these changes and additions. Only one is resolved, and that is to whom the Financial Police submits the indictment proposals, and then the level to which it is going is raised from the formational form of the tax administration's branch office in the form of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the competent criminal court. However, the measure remains intact, unresolved and this is that both customs and tax administrations and, on the third hand, the Financial Police in one part of the cases actually have almost the same or identical activity in the case of certain cases not only of tax and specific taxes, but also of other regulations which regulate the transport of special goods or products having a specific position, given that their trade or traffic is being dealt with by specific laws. In this regard, we would like the applicant to take a good look at the current situation. We would like it to encourage competence between the tax administration, customs administration and the financial police, but in the nature of everyday life in the work of these services there can also be situations that actually prevent real action because there is no telling which situation will actually respond or who will first take a particular particular case. We hope that this solution, which is now defined in Article 2 of Article 16, will resolve some of these concerns, and we fully agree that it is completely illogical that the infringement procedure in the event that these infringements are established within the scope of its jurisdiction, the Financial Police will lead to a regional tax administration's office, but I say we would like to see that the jurisdiction and scope of the customs administration and the financial police are sufficiently well-determined that no doubt arises, in fact, whose jurisdiction is in the concrete proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72318	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First is Honorable Representative Zeljko Turk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72319	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Secretary of State, colleague director. At first, I would like to say that I will accept the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial Police Act with a final draft of the law in this form as it is here and passed. We had already here in the introduction, and also with clubs about to find out everything more or less important. However, it may certainly be worth repeating even though we know that the passage of this law is certainly also related to the closure of Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights, and therefore it was worth harmonising these provisions of the Financial Police Act with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. We are less or less aware of the basic tasks of the Financial Police, but it is worth repeating first and foremost that the financial supervision and work carried out by the Financial Police is related to strengthening the very financial discipline of all budgetary users, which we personally consider to be worth repeating over and over again and finding ways to ensure that this discipline is as high and better and time the conditions of this crisis as possible. Also as an integral part of some other laws, one of the fundamental factors that is related to work and related to these laws are... Not officially, and often in this assembly, we have opportunities to discuss and to pass laws on this subject, so I dare say two to three weeks ago. [[You don't understand.]] Of course, the Financial Police have one of the essential roles to play in curbing the informal economy itself and ultimately what we also know very well, which is to prevent the avoidance of payment of budgetary commitments, above all in order to achieve the budgetary revenues themselves. It may not be specifically said here, but it should certainly be noted that the Financial Police are certainly and particularly overseeing the production and transport of petroleum products, the production and transport of tobacco products, beer, alcohol, coffee, non-alcoholic beverages, and above all in order to determine how regularity, accuracy, and then the timing of the payment of the special tax itself because it is one of the essential factors and filling the state register. It should also be said that the Excise Taxation Act of 2010 is a system of taxation by special taxes. the excise duty imposed in a different way and it was therefore necessary and prescribed to control the production of excise products, the billing and payment of excise duties, the inventory, etc. also performs the Financial Police. Therefore, the Financial Police Act was in line with the provisions of the Excise Tax Act. In view of the fact that the taxation system for these other products of coffee, drink, motor vehicles, vessels, aircraft remained unchanged to the proposed amendments and additions of the Financial Police Act, the provision on the part of the Financial Police shall be left, in particular in terms of both control and production and transport, as well as the accounting and payment of that specific traffic. Furthermore, in the proposal for the adoption of this law, it is also proposed to introduce a provision whereby the Financial Police carried out evidence actions entrusted by the State's Attorney's Office, and in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, and we know as well as the predecessors that the Government's decision was established... a network whose real aim is to protect the financial interests of the European Union and direct cooperation with the Office of the European Commission to combat fraud with the so-called so-called ‘EU’. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] OLAF, which is the Croatian state itself, is therefore an integral member of it. Of course, all this is now said is enough to propose this law as I am in the introduction and said to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72320	Thank you. It's time for the distinguished representative of the Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72321	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, Director of the Financial Police, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Act amending and supplementing the Financial Police Act shall, above all, be harmonised for the purpose of meeting the criteria in Chapter 23. Therefore, the judiciary and fundamental rights are bound by the obligation to comply with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. In addition, however, the law is changed in other parts of which I will focus specifically on efficiency in my debate, but also on the future role of the Financial Police in the supervisory services system in Croatia. In Article 1 of this proposal, paragraph 3 states that the Financial Police are carrying out procedures relating to the detection of international tax and financial fraud, and I will explain this in a little more detail in my debate. Namely, circular frauds that are more known as... They cause huge damage to the budgets of the European Union countries, and are only relevant to the countries of the Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is about organised fraud that brings well-trapped steps through the return of VAT from the state budgets to large sums of money. While fiscal authorities in Europe are fighting against this specific form of crime together with the police, they have some experience and knowledge of the part of the actors and perpetrators of the Republic of Croatia is still relatively unprepared and vulnerable for the time being. It is important to stress that Croatia will be particularly exposed to this form of crime after joining the European Union, as it will be a new member who has no experience in fighting this form of crime. The characteristics of circular fraud are that they are dealt with by experts and by a whole group of lawyers and tax advisers, so it is necessary to prepare well for effective combat and in good time. It is precisely by adopting this law that the Financial Police are given sufficient time to prepare effectively for such procedures until the date of accession to the European Union. The degree of preparation of the Financial Police will depend directly on how far Croatia will be prepared to detect and prevent criminal fraud. This law has a direct and timely impact on the protection of Croatian fiscal interests. Also, the Financial Police as a member of the AFKOS Network are also working with the European Commission's Anti-Fraud Office OLAF. OLAF is an office that is interested in protecting the financial interests of the European Union and overseeing the spending of funds, and the Financial Police have for several years through systematic training of officials is creating assumptions for co-operation with OLAF in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Article 1(3) regulates the work of the Financial Police, which is related to circular fraud and which is related to cooperation with OLAF. In addition, according to this law, Article 1(3) also states: The financial police will also carry out evidence actions by the State's Attorney's Office under the Criminal Procedure Act, which introduced the Institute of Investigation. The adoption of this law will allow officials of the Financial Police to carry out evidence actions on the order of the Attorney's Office as regulated by the Institute of Investigation in the Criminal Procedure Act. This will also contribute to the efficiency of the financial police, but also to the strength of the financial police. The most relevant thing is the change in Article 10 relating to the powers of officials of the Financial Police. This amendment greatly contributes to the operational and efficiency of carrying out evidence actions and the collection of information. In this regard, the law so far prescribed the implementation of financial supervision of the accounting and payment of all types of budgetary revenue, allowing authorised officers of the Financial Police to act more effectively under pre-determined rules and procedures to collect data and evidence that can serve at the top of the detection of criminal offences. In addition to the direct benefit that increased efficiency will bring in carrying out evidence actions, significant effects can be expected in procedures related to the detection and prevention of circular fraud. Therefore, on the basis of all this, I personally support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Police Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72322	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want final? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72323	Moving on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Police Act was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 757, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and we do not vote on them because they become an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Financial Police Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. ... /The noise in the hall./... We'll wait a minute, if it doesn't work out, then we'll do it manually. Otherwise, we agreed mostly so that we could vote on amendments by raising our hands, but when it comes to laws, some of them should stay. Right? Final draft law amending and supplementing the Financial Police Act. We're doing this all over again. So here we go and vote again. The technique... Okay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Did we vote? The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority, 93 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and nothing against along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72324	Moving to point 5. It is - The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 758. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72325	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Therefore, the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Financial Inspectorate is also the basic reason for its adoption, i.e. to propose compliance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. In the light of these amendments, allow me to say that instead of the legislative solution so far, which provides for the possibility of making an appeal against the solution referred to in Article 19(1). The law on the financial inspectorate and the appeal is decided by the Ministry of Finance, the proposal for this law proposes that the provisions on two-stage resolution be replaced by a provision which will exclude the right to appeal, but will ensure that the parties have judicial protection in the proceedings before the administrative court, which is in accordance with Article 105(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of the basic Regulation. The law on administrative disputes. An amendment has also been made within the meaning of the Financial Inspectorate Act, which gives and adds a new paragraph in Article 12 of the Law, which empowers the financial inspectorate with direct supervision tasks to carry out indirect supervision, for the purpose of applying a risk-based approach and assessing the compliance of the supervisory entity with the regulations. In this sense, nomotechnical harmonisation was made, so that instead of the expression direct supervision, expressions of direct and indirect supervision were introduced. Finally, let me also say that the Government accepts the proposed amendments to the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72326	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72327	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, Your Honor, Madam Director of the State Inspectorate. So here is a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financial Inspectorate, which I have already said at the same time as a series of other laws, is in line with the Law on the General Administrative Procedure, and is also in line with our obligation to join the European Union, so our harmonisation in section 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights. In view of these facts, therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community and this, as well as that previous law, will fully support it. Given that the proposed amendments and additions to this law are more technical than essential, I will also say something about the Financial Inspectorate Act, which this House adopted in July 2008, and which was published in the National Journal, number 85 of the same year. The Financial Inspectorate Act regulates the establishment, part-time work, jurisdiction and powers of the financial inspectorate, as one of the management organisations of the Ministry of Finance, which oversees the application of rules in the area of the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism, foreign exchange operations, and the provision of payment services and money transfer. When it comes to preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, the financial inspectorate oversees the implementation of action measures and procedures to prevent and detect money laundering and terrorist financing, which are prescribed by the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, and other regulations adopted under that law. Furthermore, in the area of foreign exchange, the financial inspectorate oversees compliance with the conditions and methods of carrying out cross-border transactions and with foreign payment funds in the country prescribed by the Foreign Exchange Act, while in the area of payment services, it oversees the provision of payment transactions and other payment transactions in accordance with the law governing the provision of such services. It is also important to mention how the financial inspectorate conducts a first-degree infringement procedure through the Financial Inspectorate Council, and to establish, in cases where an inspection control or otherwise, that there is a reasonable suspicion that an offence or criminal offence is committed to the competent national authority to submit an appropriate application, i.e. an indictment proposal. In view of the broad part of the work of the financial police, which in addition to this law applies a number of other specific rules, it is of particular importance, which is also highlighted by law, its cooperation with other institutions and bodies such as the Croatian National Bank, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the criminal prosecution bodies, the other supervisory bodies of the Ministry of Finance, etc., etc. Finally, the work of the financial inspectorate of the Department of Control, the Department of Criminal Procedure and the Department of International Co-operation, is being managed by the Director, and is being assisted by assistants, so here with us today is the Director of the State Inspectorate. In particular, when it comes to the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, it should be said first and foremost that it proposes the harmonisation of the provisions on legal protection in the event of a supervisory measure, which requires the party to remove the illegality and irregularities in business with the provisions of the new General Administrative Procedure Act. Therefore, the provision of Article 19(2) of the applicable law, which provides for the possibility of making a complaint to the Ministry of Finance against the decisions of the inspectorate, hence the two-stage resolution provision, proposes to replace the provision which will exclude the right to appeal, but will allow dissatisfied parties to be given judicial protection before the administrative court, which is in accordance with Article 105(1). The General Administrative Procedure Act. In addition, in order to specify more precisely the type of supervisory activities carried out by the financial inspectorate under official duty, it is proposed to allow, in addition to direct supervision tasks, indirect supervision, which will be based on a review of the business documentation and data collected by the supervisory entity. Such a way of doing this in the future, and this should be stressed, will certainly make a significant contribution to the preventive action of the inspection, to raising the awareness of the operators of the need for legitimate business, and finally to quality risk assessment, to better planning of direct supervision, and to overall efficiency in the work of the financial inspectorate. In the end, I will also mention that the types of surveillance are more precise and more qualitatively coordinated, so that in the text of the law the word is directly replaced by the word direct, of course by the corresponding decline, in the corresponding decline. Of course, like all previous laws that comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and where the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is harmonised, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption and adoption of these proposed amendments and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72328	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Zeljko Turk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72329	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Mr. Director, Here, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this is another one in a series of and a package of laws that, in its finality, means compliance with EU laws and acquis, as well as its compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. The Financial Inspectorate Act came into force in 2008 and as fellow Filipovic in a speech here on behalf of the club said its importance to us, and especially to the general public, the role and place of the Financial Inspectorate itself is not particularly clear, or in itself is not sufficiently explained, but when we mention the words and the finding of money laundering, it draws attention that all of us are more or less in the profession, and also in the context of legal regulation in the Republic of Croatia. It is clear when we talk about money laundering that in these criminal activities, activities are moving towards those systems towards those countries whose legal and financial regulations are as poor as possible to go unpunished as possible. And for that reason, the very conclusion and the battle that it, as such, does not seem to be one of the important tasks and roles of this Financial Inspectorate, so the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about cross-border business both today and in the time to come, then there are always limits and that cause certain rules of play, but also ways of conduct that try to avoid law and legal obligations. Today, we can find this in the context of Croatia as a country that is a future EU member state, one part of this cross-border co-operation will be lost in one part, but certainly in the time that follows in Croatia's frameworks as a Member State of the Union at its borders will definitely remain particularly towards BiH, especially the Republic of Serbia's borders, and this cross-border business will play a significant role, especially in the context of a country which is like Croatia's member of the EU compared to those who have not. Likewise, when we talk about payment traffic, its essential segments for the functioning of the entire social and economic life certainly control of these activities and its supervision fall into the work of this Financial Inspectorate. The colleagues, both the esteemed state secretary and counterpart Filipovic, spoke in more detail about the very segment of supervision of both the direct supervision of, therefore, the arrival in the premises of business and private entities, as well as the supervision of the site, but also one of these new formulations that is brought here and brought into the law, which is indirect surveillance, i.e. the sending and giving of necessary documentation, which is the basis for self-monitoring. Perhaps I can also say as head of a local self-government that just such an indirect surveillance when sending documents, and above all as a prevention is something that is welcome. Because in a way, one good part of the role of the institutions and also the Financial Inspectorate is not in itself a punishment but a good part and an educational character so that in the context of the business that all of us who do so and such work can have in times of quality results. I may also be able to identify a little with business offices related to local self-government audits and their control, and, in addition, the offices and internal audits of local self-government units, district and others, and all in the context of a more quality way and work both these institutions and state institutions as a whole. In any case, I will accept such a proposal for this amendment and the addition of the Law on the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia as we have done in this first law which, in one part, I dare say, also adds to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72330	Thank you. And distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević, individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72331	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well definitely this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia is something to be supported. It is more about the technical aspect of compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, one possibility of more preventive action of inspection supervision and one terminology coordination is opened. However, my question is through this debate, given that it is financial, that we have the Law on the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia since 2008, in other words for 3 years, what are the effects of this institution as an inspectorate? Not to read now what are the tasks or what area of action is this Financial Inspectorate. But in the context of all these events and pre-examinations, investigative actions, as well as BUSKOK and Police and State's Attorneys, there is definitely a whole series of occasional or temporary or even in some cases returnees in investigative proceedings and in Remetinec, there is definitely a foreign violation in the entire system. Some things were paid, and there's no telling who paid for it, and they're paid for outside. How was it paid? Money bags, possible money laundering and a whole series of things. Since we have this financial inspectorate and an institution that works with all these wonderful words and good intentions that were clearly passed through this legal proposal, my question is, and what are these people doing? What's the problem? We have a system, a control mechanism that can act preventively, that is, both a basic and a fundamental task is to act preventively, and the fact that it did not happen. Therefore, in any case, I will personally support this bill and this necessary alignment with the General Administrative Procedure Act and Terminological Harmonisation and the good intention of a stronger option of preventive action but again the question is raised whether the institution fulfils its legal obligation under this Act. Based on some examples not to mention them now, the less known to the public are strong and significant, obviously not fully or fully performing their function. Whether we're going back to that starting position of ours again, which is that we have the law, but at the same time we don't comply or support it. In any case, I will support this bill, but with the same question, why and why the institution formed by law does not comply with its legal obligation. I hope that the Croatian public will get an answer at least in this segment when in many other segments we cannot get that answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72332	Thank you. We have one replica of Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72333	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Koračević, decided on the replica just for a reason to get a chance to say it, but unfortunately from your debate, I have concluded that you are not familiar at all and that you do not know what the function is and what the financial inspectorate is doing, it was once called the foreign currency inspectorate, and be assured that many of the investigative actions carried out by the State's Attorney's Office would not be brought anywhere near to the inspectorate doing his job. There are jobs that are not listed in the paper, there are jobs that many institutions can't even boast about, but you have grades that these institutions get from international financial institutions. The second thing, when we talk about financial supervision, then all the institutions in the state that are doing certain financial supervisions, I think we should be critical and commendable to everyone, so that many of the investigative actions that have been carried out in the past 6, 7 years, some other institutions have had to do the work, have done the foreign exchange inspectorate at the time, and today's financial inspectorate, and be sure, I am often because of people who work in the institution reporting on a replica, be sure that these people are doing their job, just as the Money Prevention Office does, however, the question of whether others are doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72334	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72335	Here, thank you very much fellow Shucker on the replica and I totally agree with you and I also share that view that people who are employed are very likely, I simply want to believe that they are doing their job quite correctly and I totally agree with you that they have done a whole series of jobs that are not written in the papers definitely, but my question was exactly according to all those cases that are written in the papers, they are the subject of investigative actions, they are the subject of even judgment and punishment, and certainly there were elements and money laundering and exchange violations and a whole series of other things. Therefore, if these people have done, some other institutions have not done as you have said, then my question is addressed to these institutions, but quite certainly if I am an institution, and I represent the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia some other institution interferes in my work or does not complete something that I have started, then it is absolutely necessary to react. Anyway, I believe that these people are doing their job, but the fact that on this example, the overall control mechanism in this country doesn't work the best way or the way we would like it to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72336	Thank you. And we still have an individual debate, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72337	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I support this amendment and the addition of the Financial Inspectorate Act because if there is ever a need for stronger supervision than today, then the facts and events in the Republic of Croatia's economy show this. They say that under the conditions of recession, monetary policy needs to be loosened, strengthened, disciplined, fiscal policy and the amendment of this Law is going in this direction towards consolidation, creating a framework for stronger supervision in business entities. Only if we analyse how much the last 7, 8 years has been enhanced the outflow of funds from the monetary Republic of Croatia abroad based on intellectual services which in most cases do not correspond to the description written in the execution of the court, in most cases there is no coverage for the services performed or there is evidence... this is exactly the kind of surveillance that will allow it to end, and these are 100 million kunas increased only in the last year. How much software solutions, computer services have been paid over the past 5 years more than usual, and all in order to drain money from the Republic of Croatia to abroad, to transfer money to countries where the tax oasis, to its offshore companies, thereby creating an entry cost to reduce the tax base and thereby avoiding profit tax. And there is a front of large companies, how much only banks and telecommunications companies have increased expenditure in this regard. So says their expenditures increased, so they didn't for the employees, they reduced the number of employees, and the expenditures increased, but that's not business costs, and that's why special attention should be paid, and therefore I support such an amendment to the Law that everything that is not directly related to the business of the business operator, and its functioning must not be entered into the basis of the profit tax, must not enter into the costs. It's the most abuse of business entities. So much when someone pays lunch to a business partner then whether those 1,000 kunas are for business purposes or not, they have to be written to even who he was at lunch with, sometimes it's written whether it's his business partner or if he's a potential business partner, and when someone 100 million kuna points out for intellectual services, counselling various, then there's no, there needs to be more supervision. There is also one bank that buys its own shares and thus pays bonuses to its members and creates it as a cost and thus reduces the tax base. And when they sold their shares, they paid for the shares by getting shares abroad, which was illegal. This will help prevent such events more, and the biggest Croatian bank has been known to sell its shares and receive 90% of the value of the purchases, not in cash and the money should have come to the Republic of Croatia, but in shares of the mother bank in Italy. And only 10% was paid by RH money. There is so much space where monitoring needs to be strengthened and surely these changes will contribute to directly affecting the reduction of the grey economy, that this directly affects the elimination of costs that are not actually costs, and then they bring themselves into a situation to say, so we have increased costs. Well, of course, the increased costs are if the company's costs are to build villas, build houses, buy yachts, pay abroad to its companies, and then the costs are to rise. The biggest problem of the Croatian economy is paying cash from companies that are not serving with their business activities. This is the biggest problem of the Republic of Croatia's economy and the biggest problem of the company, and this should really happen once. You can't go into expense and pay your wife a trip to Broadway play. And it goes into cost, and we have cases as many as you want. All you have to do is peek at these business entities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72338	Thank you. We have two replicas. First honorary representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72339	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, my colleague Maric agrees fully with you, and for a few things, I have decided on a replica of this discussion of yours for the simple reason that some things might be further extended and explained. First of all, on the basis of certain findings of the inspection carried out by the former foreign exchange inspectorate and the Office for the Prevention of Money and the detection that there are a lot of outward transactions for certain jobs that no evidence could be found that neither contracts nor other material evidence were carried out. So it went on to amend the Profit Tax Act where it was said that all transactions to third countries so off-shore companies were paid a profit tax of 20% regardless of what kind of transaction it was. Also, many have decided to reward their managers in Croatia with company bonuses. However, this also came to an end because the provisions of the Income Tax Act define that they pay 40% of the income tax. Therefore, all inspections at the Ministry of Finance in one coordinated action seek as much as possible to squeeze the ring and about preventing money laundering, about certain operating costs, and this is the last amendment to the Income and Profit Tax Act that led to a clear understanding of what business costs are, and what business costs are owned by companies for private purposes. So, legislatively, it's done. The financial police and the IRS need to detect this in their controls. And certainly the Financial Inspectorate is what I said and when I spoke to my colleague Korajevic in the past few years so I can say it was a backbone in the detection of various illegal transactions and it is certain that both the state attorney and all the institutions will confirm that there was no great cooperation with the Financial Inspectorate that many crimes would not be revealed. And that's why I volunteered for the replica, and I think that because of the people who work in that institution, that's something that needs to be said publicly, because not once did the state's attorney commend co-operation with all the institutions in the Ministry of Finance. And that's why without the Financial Police, without the IRS without the Money Prevention Office and without the Financial Inspectorate, it's certain that some things would be difficult to discover and that a difficult procedure would be concluded.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72340	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72341	Thank you very much. In today's modern business ventures and these modern managerial structures, fellow Shucker is the most appreciated ones who know how to figure out how to physically increase costs, how to increase expenditures, or how to reduce the base for profit tax. And that's where the fog services came up. Predator I say intellectual services from abroad. Imagine that the Croats are idiots. No one in Croatia can advise anything only abroad lately is paid for intellectual services. Maintenance of computer systems, maintenance of information equipment is paid in Luxemburg. So is that possible? And finally, you saw where everything leaks, and now you're going to do everything you can to make it go away. So whether the commercials that toped us every day are, we can't even look in peace at the moment that we don't have the 90 seconds that terrorise every intellectual's mental set and anyone who understands what's going on in this Croatia. What does that commercial have to do with business? It has absolutely nothing to do with it. It doesn't contribute to anything, to increase business activity. But it helps not to write about it, not to talk about it, not to do anything about it. That's what it's all about. Well, then, when we see that some of our companies spend more triple on advertising than in Slovenia, then it suggests something. When we see that the costs of maintenance of information equipment are fivefold higher than in the same company in Slovenia, then it has to point to a certain conclusion. And there is a need for further supervision of concrete Thank you very much. [[- Intruder. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72342	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatko Koračević replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72343	Thank you very much. Ma colleague Maric, from your debate, and from the replica of his colleague Shuker and just before my debate and your debate, it is obvious and the fact is and should not be denied, there are problems. And I'm sure the people in that inspectorate are doing their best. But almost certainly we have the law since 2008, it's almost certain that from 2008 until today, and you have cited a whole series of examples that differ from good practice, the attention of a good master and that are border and criminal at the end of what has been proven. A whole series of procedures are being conducted. Therefore, it would be logical and precisely my debate was directed in that direction. I support this bill, probably these people are doing a good job of their own, but what keeps them from revealing the whole system and preventing all these things that are happening, that you've listed, and among other things, you've told Broadway to a theater show, some of them going to some opera in Verona and some of the other centers. So let's clear up with these things and let's hear from the people who are the problems or which institutions in this country don't do or prevent things from being exposed and then the whole burden falls on investigative journalism and we start over again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72344	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72345	Thank you very much. You asked me where the problems were, who's stopping it. The financial inspectorate can't get all the data, we need to be aware of that. About the things I talked about the most, that's the only information the Central Bank has and these data don't come to the Financial Inspectorate. If we can figure out and see the cost structure of business banks, then you'll understand what I'm talking about, and that cost structure has only the National Bank. But for this reason, most countries have singled out from the Central Bank the supervision of business banks into their own special institution and the National Bank performs its monetary function, but does not oversee banks, for example in Italy for these very reasons. This way we can't know if we're enemies of the state if we ask what the cost structure of Zagreb or the Business Bank is, what they're spending it in. This when you mentioned Broadway, the double cost was because she didn't like her wife, she didn't like the window she was sitting next to, she had to go to the other side, so he paid a double card and everything went into the bank's expense.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72346	So double cost. Okay. And finalize the review, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72347	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, offered this last part of the debate, let me take the opportunity because I think it is also the best time to mention several times already the employees of the Financial Inspectorate headed by my colleague, the director who is here and present, surely earn much more time to talk about both their work and the results. Since it is a specific business that is very often related to very complex and complex objects of a confidential nature, as we have defined them by certain legal regulations, it is not known much. So I can make it quite clear here that here is just according to the data, I speak only for 2010, the Financial Inspectorate has participated in all the financial investigations that have been conducted and, of course, in those who can be said so publicly exposed. The total number in 2010 alone was 88, of which I must also say that in 15 of these 88 the Financial Inspectorate was a direct initiator of these types of investigations. So investigations have been done on their own, which, in cooperation with other bodies, since the Financial Inspectorate as a structural unit, the integral part of the Ministry of Finance in all these procedures of financial and their investigations is not the only link in the chain. It should also be said that the preventive action of the Financial Inspectorate is also very important. I will say again only for 2010, 230 supervisions that have been carried out naturally against those who are in the area and the responsibilities of the Financial Inspectorate, which are from authorised exchangers, through individual lenders and loans, but not credit institutions, to various non-financial sector representatives and so on. professional activities such as lawyers, auditors, public notebooks and the like. The total offence, the results of the 2010 infringement procedure, say that more than 27 million kunas have been fined, has been seized or, in fact, over a million euros of unauthorized transfers of money across borders, almost money across the border, so that money that has not been declared in accordance with our legal regulations. These are just some of the figures that I've used here on purpose in the final word actually say that they show up and say that they're really not insignificant results. I'll go back to the first one I said, which is 88 financial investigations involving employees and the Financial Inspectorate as such. This may be done to someone by a number that is not so respectable, but believe me, each one of these investigations requires and actually contains not only hundreds and thousands of pages of various documents but the same number of hundreds and thousands of various monetary transactions that are necessary and very detailedly analyzed requires exhausted work. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72348	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. That concludes the morning session. We will continue at 15 hours with item 2 of the agenda, and this is the final proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on the mutual protection of classified data. I'll see you at 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72349	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 758. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives was adopted, and we do not vote on it under article 169 of the Rules of Procedure. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the financial inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 98 votes for, 2 abstentions, nothing against along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72350	We'll continue the afternoon session. Point 2 as I have announced - Final proposal of the Law confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on mutual protection of classified data, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 779 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tatjana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72351	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. For the purposes of this Agreement, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This law confirms the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on the mutual protection of classified data in order to ensure its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became an integral part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France signed a contract on mutual protection of classified data on 25.01 this year in Zagreb. That Treaty establishes a legal framework and lays down rules for the mutual protection of classification data in the relations of the Republic of Croatia and France concerning all future classified cooperation contracts and agreements containing or including classified data. The Treaty lays down legal frameworks for the protection of classified data common to be created or exchanged between the parties contracted, lays down identical degrees of secrecy, obligations with regard to national measures for the protection of classified data, determines the competent authorities for the implementation of the contract, the mechanisms for the transfer of classified data and the handling of classified data. Specific provisions on classified contracts are contained, arrangements are made for the achievement of visits, procedures for the implementation of security and the issue of the costs incurred in the implementation of this contract. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. In view of the nature of the process of confirming international contracts, which also formally expresses the willingness of the State to be bound by an already concluded international contract and the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, it is generally not possible to change or supplement the text of the international contract, it is proposed that this proposal for a law be discussed and adopted by means of an urgent procedure uniting first and second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72352	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see, good. Then I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, the esteemed representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72353	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS-HSU Club will support the ratification of this contract on the mutual protection of classified data with the Government of the Republic of France. We are particularly pleased that ratification comes only a few months after signing a contract which is not common in our work. Sometimes you know for yourself that the signed treaty has been ratified in Parliament. This time it's not the case and it's commendable. Too bad many other documents didn't have the same fate. My colleagues and colleagues here are concerned with a type contract that regulates security principles, degrees of secrecy and their authenticity in two countries, the procedure for issuing security certificates, translation, multiplication and use of data and destruction after use. The contract correctly regulates and technical details related to data transfer of staff visits and settlement of possible disputes. However, colleagues and colleagues, when it comes to classified data what we do in front of the HNS-HSU club, we would like to underline it: The Republic of Croatia has the Data Security Act, the Republic of Croatia has the Information Security Act, the Security Checks Act, the Information Security Measures Regulation, the Security Standards Regulation, the Data Safety Standards Regulation, the Regulation on the Standards of Organisation and the Safety Management of Information Systems and the Standards of Business Cooperation. In addition to all these documents, colleagues and colleagues, classified data for years girls from all state institutions. Every day when we open a newspaper, we're waiting for new unpleasant surprises. The lesson is therefore: the laws, regulations and rules are not by themselves a solution but by the people who work in these institutions, their honesty, their desire to protect the interests of the state, their inviolability, their true, not just declarative patriotism. My colleagues and colleagues in the last 20 years have definitely not been respected in the employment of civil servants and deputies, but let's face it, public officials have not been a particular role model to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72354	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72355	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with an associate. The HDZ Club will support this proposal for a law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on mutual protection of classification data. Namely, as the State Secretary said, since this contract has already been signed on behalf of the government of this 2 countries, so by this law we ratify such a signed contract, we do not engage in possible amendments to the already established provisions. But I certainly believe that this contract should be confirmed because information security is one of the very important components of each country, therefore, and the state of Croatia has, somewhere during 2007 and 2008, regulated several laws and created one legal framework for the field of information security and, of course, could therefore go further into regulation of international relations and state affairs compared to classified data, either by individual countries, or by any data that has been created together as classified. Of course, this is extremely important in the field of combating terrorism, organised crime, corruption, financial fraud, which is usually of cross-border character or does not stop at the borders of the state, and therefore it is extremely important that the state cooperates in these areas, but also in other areas, and it is important that countries agree with each other and rules both for the exchange of such data and for the protection of such data. Therefore, we have heard that the contract lays down identical degrees of secrecy, obligations relating to national protection measures for these classified data, the competent authorities for the implementation of the contract, the mechanisms for the transfer of classified data, the handling of such classified data and the provisions on classified contracts shall be determined by means of visits and meetings of experts, the handling in the event of a breach of security and the issues of costs incurred. So, all the way about the type contracts, it should be pointed out that the state of Croatia has already ratified 7 of these contracts and that further contracts are in preparation, they are about equal content, of course, adapted to certain specificities of each country in the bilateral contract. This is because we consider it extremely important to regulate this sensitive area of the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the bill ratifying this signed contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72356	Thank you. We move on to an individual debate, the first distinguished representative is Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72357	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my presentation, I would like to point out that I support the proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on the mutual protection of classified data. A series of legal and sublegislative rules have been adopted on the basis of a national plan for Croatia's accession to the European Union during 2007 and 2008 which regulates the area of information security in a unique and comprehensive manner, thus establishing a basis for establishing professional standards for adequate regulation of the protection of classified data in the internal and international context. This need for an international exchange of information which, according to national legislation, is classified or marked by one of the laws of defined degrees of secrecy stems from close foreign policy relations between states and the increased need for mutual and coordinated action to address modern security problems that often go beyond national frameworks with complexity and comprehensiveness. The Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on the mutual protection of classified data signed in Zagreb on 25 January 2011 established a legal basis for ensuring the protection of classified data arising or exchanged between parties, whether this is a matter of establishing the same degree of secrecy, obligations concerning national measures for the protection of classified data, or the determination of competent authorities for the implementation of contracts, transfer mechanisms and treatment of classified data, arrangements for visits and meetings of experts, and the handling of security infringements as well as the question of the costs incurred in the implementation of contracts. For the purposes of this Decision, and since the Croatian Parliament confirms the Treaty in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 140(1) of the Treaty. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and I support the adoption of the Law confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on the mutual protection of classified data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72358	Thank you. An individual debate by the distinguished representative Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72359	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on the mutual protection of classified data with the Final Proposal for the Law. So, the law is in an emergency procedure. It is also mentioned that so far we have had several such laws of similar content and that we are about to pass several other similar laws relating to mutual protection of classified data. Thus, by ratifying this contract in the Croatian Parliament, as he said his provisions would form part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, as is the case with all international contracts ratified by the Croatian Parliament. As far as the contract itself is concerned, it was signed in Zagreb on 25 January 2011 and with the aim of protecting classified data created or exchanged primarily between the parties to this Treaty but also public or private institutions of signatories in accordance with national laws and other regulations. Since the contract has already been signed, and at this stage of the procedure cannot be amended or supplemented in its debate, I will not enter into details and certain provisions of the contract, I will stress once again what is defined by it. Therefore, with the determination of national, security authorities, degrees of secrecy, security principles, access, use and transfer of classified data, multiplication, translation and destruction, it is also arranged to make mutual visits so as to directly access classified data, conduct by parties in the event of violations of laws and regulations relating to the protection of such data, etc. So since I believe that this contract very precisely regulates the rules of mutual protection in the field of information security and the protection of classified data, I will certainly support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72360	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72361	We are going to vote on the debated and closed agenda points. 1, The final draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on the mutual protection of classified data was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 779. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on the mutual protection of classified data. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 95 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72362	We move to the 3rd item of the agenda - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international and humanitarian law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 785 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice whose report will be here any minute. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tatiana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72363	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected and esteemed MPs and MPs. The reasons for amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international and humanitarian law are mainly based on the need to comply with the criteria for the closure of Chapter 23 – Justice and Fundamental Rights. Therefore, these amendments were adopted at technical consultations with the European Commission. But also since the law in a certain part calls for the provisions of the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crimes Act, which has been abolished by the new Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, the need for natural alignment with the new legal situation has emerged. The first amendment of the law is related to the European Commission's request that the law should provide that the procedures relating to war crimes are exclusively subject to 4 specialised courts, which are the County Courts in Osijek, Rijeka, Split and Zagreb. Thus, this first amendment deleted the general courts' jurisdiction and provided for exclusive jurisdiction of 4 specialised courts. The second amendment has made the existing provisions more transparent, and in that sense paragraph 1 is divided into 2 paragraph. There has also been a change in the way of no longer seeking the consent of the Minister of Justice to appoint a state attorney to prosecute war crimes, thus speeding up the appointment process and ensuring that the executive authority is not involved in the activities of the State Attorney's Office. And it is also foreseen that in the event that no state attorney has been appointed to prosecute war crimes, his duties are being carried out by the attorney general. The following amendments to the law are relevant to the need to comply with the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime. Thus, two new articles have been added to the law, allowing the first to refer state lawyers to the state's attorneys responsible for handling before the 4 specialised courts within a maximum year. Since it is predicted that these state attorneys could be very burdened in the future. The second attached article of the length of the prison investigation in matters of jurisdiction under this law shall be brought into line with the legal decisions on the duration of the prison investigation provided for in the Law on the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime. The amendment of the law on Article 28 shall go in the direction of amending the subheadings above that Article as well as the article itself. So far, the law has been subtitled "Download of proceedings by the International Criminal Court". However, in view of the changes in Article 28 which deletes the taking over of proceedings, it was necessary to bring the subtitle itself in line. In this regard, Article 28 provided for a situation in which the International Criminal Court imposes criminal persecution on the Republic of Croatia. Since this situation is not actually possible because the International Criminal Court has a complementary jurisdiction, which means that the court conducts the procedure only if the State is unable or does not wish to carry out the procedure on its own, it is logical to amend the part of the article which provided for the conclusion of specific arrangements for the regulation of the issues in taking over the procedure. In addition to the above, the consent of the investigative judge in bringing the indictment and calling for a concrete article of the Criminal Procedure Act to be brought into line with the existing legal decisions in the Republic of Croatia. The following independent provision provides for the applicability of the provision on the use of evidence under this law and in the event of a criminal prosecution or evidence by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, since this possibility remains theoretically. Finally, an independent provision prevents the retroactive application of the law to ongoing proceedings, so that cases from all courts must not be referred to 4 specialised courts, thus resulting in a complete overload of those 4 specialised courts. It also foresees the possibility for the Supreme Court president to move some of the proceedings under way to one of the 4 specialised courts. This provision also leaves the possibility that in the event of the suspension of the decision in criminal proceedings by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the return of the case to re-debate, this new procedure may be brought before the 4 specialised courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72364	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72365	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the respected secretary of state with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP Club will support the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international and humanitarian law with the Final Proposal of the Law. Here may be just to remind you of what we all agree with and what Mrs. Secretary of State said was relatively long in force and here is the first time since 2003 only changes now. Perhaps it is to be noted, it may be interesting to the public but to live up to the full application of this law which allows our domestic courts to judge not only what they are primarily and called upon under domestic law to judge for the most serious crimes, but also war crimes, but also so that those proceedings before international institutions such as the Hague Court, although the ICTV formed for the former Yugoslavia, so that these crimes are being transferred to Croatia. That's what happened because of this law. This law, perhaps a small curiosity, I have noted that it was passed during the coalition government, and that it was made entirely and completely by the professor then and now the professor, but on the other hand, the President of the Republic of Ivo Josipovic. It's interesting that for the first time we had, we met with a new legal issue since I also remind you that at the time we were, when it was founded, we witnessed a great and modern event in the historical sense of criminal law which every criminal dreams about and we experienced to create a permanent international criminal court. Not ad hoc courts like this who will be somewhere and then who are always able to object to them with more or less arguments that they are essentially political courts. Therefore, the establishment of a permanent international criminal court that judges precisely for crimes against international war and humanitarian law. As is known, the world's leading force is still opposed to their citizens being brought to justice by this court. This simply causes one dispute, but I must admit that Croatia was among the first signatories of the statutes of a permanent international criminal court that is now constantly working. We have precisely, since we have been a signator of this permanent international criminal court, so we have to bring certain standards, adapt and domestic legislation that will allow our citizens to appear in front of a permanent international criminal court, but also burdened still with the situation that our citizens are responding to this court ad hoc in The Hague, so we have created assumptions that were then lacking in our legislation to create assumptions that citizens, that the generals, that our citizens in front of the international institution are being processed in Croatia. Under this law, and by accepting the standards that apply partially and in front of that tribunal that we have incorporated in this law, some processes have been made possible, here I am not mentioning now, you are well aware of who it is, so those who may have possibly gone there, but where the process has been carried out here and where the punishment is now being carried out. As dissatisfied with the decisions of any domestic or foreign courts or institutions, it is always for the defendant, for the defendant to be tried in the country, the national country from which he originates. That is, and later on, a little bit more is said for resociation and much better. So, I have to admit that the bill was passed here unanimously. But when we look at a little bit, a number of laws that are legislative at that time, which is why we were criticised by the profession itself, that we often change laws, but we were simply forced. Meanwhile, these fundamental laws, which were adopted in 2002, constantly changed, improved, upgraded. It's only 2011 now, so after 8.9 years, we've been changing this law. Let's not be offended, but this testifies to the fact that the law has been applied a little bit, and that's why it has also caused challenges because some situations could and could, but now we can only hypothetically talk about it, prevent or in a different way solve or develop events might have gone in a smaller and different direction. As a whole, this law had been passed long before, and even when it was adopted today it was applied to a full extent. But that's why it's not just those who apply the law that's why it takes a lot of political will, not this kind of ad hoc. So it's a continuous process that can't be some sort of current campaign. I must also point out that this law has been passed as part of the then government's decision that persecution against war crimes does not satisfy, that it is simply necessary for the local judiciary to train both human and simple to educate, but also in this sense also to provide for subjugated spaces to simply concentrate on certain judicial bodies that will be properly dealt with, if not exclusively, with this problem, therefore the most difficult forms of the most serious crimes. I must also mention that all these changes that are quite logical and that are... , they are not new, so four criminal courts were established then, only then were we still investigating and then they were talking about an investigative centre in Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka, Split. [[I don't understand.]] Likewise, these other norms that may now be a little bit clearer, sort of grinding a little bit, which is why we welcome it. This means that in this sense something is also practiced when it is seen that in practice something may need to be crushed and processed. So here we are not forced by any pressure from outside, this was originally our work, our consciousness that something in this sense is done here, that we can be able simply as a nation and as citizens as a whole to face that other side of war and do for such persons something that is best to be tried, prosecuted and in front of domestic courts. It is on the one hand, and on the other hand equally so that it starts with one systematic persecution and condemnation because our public expects it because there is still no elemental satisfaction with those who attacked Croatia for all those crimes they have committed. So specialized courts have made a lot of progress in the education of our judges. In that sense, a lot has really been done since then. And here's to including your debate on behalf of the SDP club we support changes and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72366	Thank you. It is next to the HNS club, HSU, the distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72367	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues. HNS Club, HSU will support this bill. As we can see, the addition of this law stems from the need to meet the criteria for the closure of Chapter 23 – Justice and Fundamental Rights. But also from the need to comply with the existing laws of the Republic of Croatia. At technical consultations with the European Commission, it is recommended that the Croatian Government supplement and amend this law in a way that war crimes cases are conducted exclusively in four specialised courts in Osijek, Rijeka, Split and Zagreb. And we agree with colleagues from the SDP that it's good. It's about the most professional staff, it's about people who have great experience, who specialize in these areas, and that will certainly contribute to an objective and quality trial. Second recommendation from the European Commission on the possibility of using evidence of international criminal courts before domestic courts. And that's what we agree on. This will significantly speed up certain court proceedings if documents are used. What is also worth saying here is that we are glad that DORH signed bilateral agreements with both Serbia and Montenegro, that in cases where they cannot hand over war crimes suspects, documents are then handed over to the other side. She's conducting an investigation, and that way no one should remain unpunished. For this reason, the use of such documents to be available at the International Court can also only contribute to the process. Furthermore, we agree that the attorney general shall appoint one of his deputies to serve as State Attorney to prosecute the offences referred to in Article 1. Namely, for war crimes and humanitarian crimes. His role would be to coordinate and direct the criminal persecution of the perpetrator, which is good. This coordination has not yet been or has been very insufficient, and this is what we expect to improve exactly the process of persecuting these individuals. Furthermore, we have an additional solution. If the state's attorney, if he's not appointed a state's attorney to prosecute war crimes, then the attorney general is doing the job. So there's always a culprit if something isn't realized, something isn't agreed or coordinated which is certainly good. We also support the introduction of a penitentiary institution if we can call it that, and that is a good way to get information complemented by those who will expect a little less punishment in this way but will surely be resolved by a large number of those cases for which other cases could not come into evidence. It also seems very logical to us that the attorney general can send a state attorney or a deputy state attorney to work for a certain period of time but no longer than a year in another area where the burden is greater. It seems to us that only in that sentence is this or for a certain time maybe those four words are too high for us because they go but not for more than a year anyway. So you repeat the text seems unnecessary to me and that those four words might be thrown out. We're not and we're not planning to make an amendment, but you're assessing whether it would make sense not to repeat the text where we shouldn't do it. On the basis of evidence obtained by the International Criminal Court, Article 28 of the International Criminal Court may bring an indictment before the competent court without an investigation. We think that it is good and that it should support such a solution because it can only speed up the process and make it even more efficient. Penalties initiated before the entry into force of this Act will be completed by courts competent under the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. Okay, this is a solution, some kind of transitional solution so that suddenly not all the proceedings will go to these four courts, and we can accept that although we would very much like to see as many of these proceedings go to these four courts that will undoubtedly become more powerful and specialize in these proceedings. On the reasoned proposal of the Chief State Attorney, the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia may approve that the conduct of the proceedings is relocated to the court referred to in Article 12 of this Law, and this seems to be a good solution in the event that it is indeed stuck somewhere, that the proceedings are very slow and ineffective. Then this solution is good because it will give the attorney general another weapon in his hands so that he can act and speed up the whole process. What you might want to say here. I'm sorry, I'm still coming back. I'm going to go back to one question that I thought I'd ask the promoters. In particular, Article 2(5) of the Attorney-General directs the work of the regular authorities working on the cases which fall within its jurisdiction under this law. It's a redistributive government, which all falls under the rule of law. Just to let us know. Finally, perhaps we should say that many of us are sitting in various delegations where we can and should have an impact on what is unfortunately happening and related to the Rome Statute and the International Criminal Court. Since 192, 78 of the UN member states have not yet ratified this document, which means that a large part of the world community still does not respect and avoid co-operation in and beyond that court, which is not good. Unfortunately, even five, six members of the Council of Europe have also not yet ratified the Rome Statute, signed and ratified the Roman Statute, so my request in front of the HNS, HSU Club is that wherever we can colleagues and colleagues in various international organisations where we represent the Croatian Parliament we warn of that fact and we ask that we correct this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72368	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72369	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international war and humanitarian law. In fact, this is a very short law that we have today on changes, which we have in the debate and it's actually related, it has two parts. One part is really quite technical, which is, as the colleague said, since the Law was passed in 2003, in the meantime, some of the laws to which this law is called are amended, so simply for the sake of accuracy and uncertainty in application, then amendments to the law need to establish the correct name and renegotiate the right law on whose provisions this Law is called upon, and this is primarily about the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Act that has been amended in the meantime. The second part is the part we actually need to meet the criteria in Chapter 23. The judiciary and fundamental rights and also compliance with the existing Croatian law, and we see the Supreme Court of Croatia, not for the sake of harmonisation but for the possibility of proper application of the Law. Therefore, it is suggested in the technical consultations that a more effective and consistent prosecution of these criminal offences involving the Law on the application of the Statutes of the International Criminal Court should be determined by 4 courts in charge of the trial and resolution of these cases, which are four courts in Osijek, Rijeka, Split and Zagreb as really the courts that are the most qualified, who have the highest quality staff and the possibility of solving complex criminal cases. The second was a technical remark on the possibility of using evidence from the International Criminal Courts before domestic courts. In fact, in the existing law, the provision of evidence was in the head, which was called Taking the Procedures from the International Criminal Court, that there was no practical takeover of proceedings because, by nature, the International Criminal Court conducted those proceedings which had not previously been conducted by the domestic judiciary, the takeover did not even take place, in practice of taking over or giving in to any of the international criminal courts for the former Yugoslavia. As the Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia then raised doubts as to how such evidence could be used only if it was taken over, and not if it is a trial before a domestic court, then these amendments, which have also been amended in the name Use of Evidence of the International Criminal Court, have been made possible to use these evidence before the International Criminal Court and in the case of a trial before a domestic court. Of course, what is important and what has been laid down in the existing law is to say that the proceedings for the offences referred to in Article 1. The law in the Republic of Croatia is implemented with the application of domestic criminal, material and criminal procedural law, and, exceptionally, on the basis of evidence obtained by an international criminal court, the State's attorney may, before the competent court in the Republic of Croatia, file charges and without carrying out an investigation on the basis of these and so-called evidence. What is more important to point out that the evidence collected by the authorities of the International Criminal Court may be used in criminal proceedings under certain conditions that they are collected in a manner provided for in the Statute and the rules on the procedure and evidence of the International Criminal Court in order to be used before that court, but on the basis of the evidence obtained, the existence or absence of some of the facts shown by these evidence, what is important is that the Croatian Court assesses according to the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act apply domestic law. In view of the change in the name of this Chapter on taking over proceedings, it was then necessary to provide for this Article 6th amendment that the provisions on the use of evidence of the International Criminal Court will be applied in an appropriate manner and in the case where criminal prosecution or evidence is committed by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in order to avoid any confusion of application, this Law on Exlicity Amendments and stated. It is also a further provision to reduce, or complete absence of, the influences of the executive authority on any appointments or provisions in the judiciary, whether in the State's attorney's office, so that these amendments provide a provision in such a way that, with the opinion of the State's attorney, they will appoint one of their deputies on the duty of a state attorney to prosecute criminal offences. Article 1 of that Law, without the agreement of the Minister of Justice, will no longer be required. These amendments also introduce a new provision that determines that the Attorney General may refer to the work of a lawyer covering the local jurisdiction of these four designated courts for trial in these cases, as it may be expected that these attorneys will then be somewhat more burdensome than they are now with regular schedules and jobs. The law also resolved the issue of procedures which are now under way in the course of the Law, the explicit fact that those criminal proceedings initiated before the entry into force will be completed by the courts in charge of the applicable provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, and, where appropriate, by reason of the circumstances of the criminal offence, the need for the conduct of proceedings to be moved to one of the courts established by these amendments and additions in Article 12, respectively, to courts in Osijek, Rijeka, Split and Zagreb. This is because of all of this, because we believe that these amendments improve the current text and improve its application of the law, enable the law to be applied more effectively, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72370	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72371	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the distinguished secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. So here's what I'm going to say at the very beginning that this law absolutely needs to be supported, and among other things, it needs to repeat those reasons that have been presented on behalf of the club representatives in support of this bill. Of course, the first of them is the fact that this is also about harmonising legislation, it is about Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental human rights, and in fact these amendments, these amendments to the law are proposed and, in the sense of, following technical consultations with the European Commission's experts on the one hand, but, of course, it is not about ignoring all the reasons that my colleagues have already presented and underlined, and that is, in fact, the need to comply with this law, with the provisions of other laws, primarily the Law on criminal proceedings and the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, in particular or in particular with the provisions on jurisdiction of courts for the processing of these types of criminal offences. So absolute support for this bill, and even in this section that bears the title of using evidence of an international criminal court, but let me stress two basics here, because I find it very important to point out in the debate. So whenever we talk about this type of procedure, and this type of crime, the basis of this law exclusively and only comes to the application of both criminal material and criminal procedural law of the Republic of Croatia. This is also important for the purposes of paragraph 2 of this Article, the proposed Article 28 which provides for an exception, so when a State lawyer can carry out the procedure without carrying out an investigation in those situations where such evidence has already been carried out, and they refer to certain facts by the international criminal court. Of course, this exception is acceptable, but always in terms of the assessment that only the carrying out of such evidence and their assessment is carried out under the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act on the one hand, and, on the other hand, that the existence or absence of a fact which is demonstrated by these evidences is valued by the Croatian court according to the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. So despite the possibility of initiating the procedure itself, I would say directly without conducting an investigation, these evidences are also subject to evaluation, and the criminal proceedings itself are carried out by the basis of both the criminal proceedings and the criminal law of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, to support those provisions relating to the possibility of adjudicating certain courts, therefore to the courts in Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka and Split as specialised courts for this type of crime, and it is simply a matter of harmonising this law with the laws that I have already mentioned, and therefore the amendment and addition is really necessary and logical. This also represents, therefore, these amendments and additions of this law another effort to bring the entire legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line in the field of justice and human rights, so we have indeed already reached that final part or the end, so here in this normative sense, and in terms of application, we can conclude that we are at the very end if and at the end of the conclusion of this very important chapter, and that is exactly what I am stressing, and in this sense once again I support this bill proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72372	Thank you. And distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72373	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the statutes of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international war and humanitarian law with the final proposal of the law states, in Article 1 which is amended and reads: for the conduct of criminal proceedings for the offences mentioned in Article 1 of this Law, the county courts in Osijek, Rijeka, Split and Zagreb are competent. In Article 2 of the State Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia, with the prior opinion of the College of State Attorneys of State, appoints one of its deputies to act as State Attorney to prosecute the offences referred to in Article 1, it is necessary to make clear those acts against international war and humanitarian law. Now, here, four courts are named here, so in Osijek, Rijeka, Split and Zagreb, I wonder if we will continue to have jurisdiction or the one we silence and those who have jurisdiction over the courts in, so in Belgrade and Banja Luka, on whose orders Doctor Vesna Bosnianac is being questioned today in Zagreb, Vukovar or elsewhere, on whose orders a list of 3,000 200 defenders, of which several hundred of those who live, so I am talking about a court in Banja Luka, several hundred lives in the area of Brod-Posavina County. Will we then be, when we adopt this law, whether we will be more effective, to say more effectively in processing four hundred dead civilians, a crime for 400 dead civilians than the bombing of an airline, an artillery ship, of which 30 children under the age of 14 are. Shall we then process those who, whose anniversary we marked, Mr. Vice President, two days ago in Bor's village, when they were killed macholy, were killed by 12 officers, and then massacred, so they were killed in an ambush, but then massacred. Which opposes any human or God's law. Unfortunately, to this day I have not seen that there are charges against known or unknown perpetrators of these acts. Not only that, we were in Borovo Selo before the memorial of 12 directors who did not die in that place and on that board except for the name, the honorary names of Croatian knights do not say anything else. It does not say that the Croatian knights died for the independence of the Republic, writes nothing, only names and letters that have already faded a little and have not been restored. But this is not the subject of the current legislative proposal, but rather the application of the statutes of the International Criminal Court and the persecution which, according to the compliance, is being made with, I should also say to the EU requirements in Chapter 23. - Justice and human rights. And given the experience, here's what I've stated so far, that with these four courts, nothing seems to represent anything, we don't have any bitterness, it seems to me that the military prosecution and the court in Belgrade are still delivering to us for our citizens, for what was happening in our territory to the Croatian and still the indictments. So they question or suggest that our defense attorneys be prosecuted. This is how Banja Luka was inserted in Belgrade, and so is her and their prosecution, as it is said, and not the prosecution also delivers and prosecutes our defenders. For this reason, because of the indignation that, as a state, as a government and Parliament, we do not react vigorously to these phenomena, I speak for myself, but here I am not able to speak on behalf of the club, the HDSSB club will have a abstention of opinion in connection with this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72374	Thank you. And I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72375	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international humanitarian law, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 785, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international humanitarian law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 92 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72376	The first point that is ready for discussion is point 10., which is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on road traffic inspection and roads, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 781 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Maritime Affairs. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivica Perovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72377	I would like to thank the Honorable Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs. You have before you a draft bill on amendments to the Law on road traffic and road inspection. The Law on road traffic and road inspection, which entered into force on 29 July 1999, regulates the structure, jobs and mode of work, the powers and obligations of road traffic inspection and roads of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. The new Law on General Administrative Procedure, which entered into force on 1 January 2010, regulates all relevant procedural matter and makes its application mandatory in all administrative matters. The derogations are possible, but only with regard to certain issues of administrative procedure which can be regulated differently by special law, provided that this is necessary for the conduct of certain administrative areas and if not contrary to the basic provisions and the purpose of the new General Administrative Procedure Act. The analysis of the provisions of the Law on road traffic inspection and roads established that the obligations and harmonisations are subject to the provisions of Article 16(2), Articles 17 and 18 of the Law in question. In accordance with this, amendments to the terminology of harmonisation are proposed. The term final solution is transformed into an executive solution. The right of the party to a legal remedy against the inspector’s first-degree solution is in line with the basic principles and provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act and excludes the possibility of subsidising the General Administrative Procedure Act in the subject of inspection supervision. The law also contains a provision governing the procedure for appointing the commission as a second-degree body which decides on complaints against the inspector’s first-degree solutions and how to act during the transitional period until the appointment of that committee. In view of the fact that the harmonisation of the provisions of the specific law with the General Administrative Procedure Act is one of the criteria for the closure of Chapter 23. – The judiciary and fundamental rights in the process of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU are clearly justified public reasons for the adoption of the laws under emergency procedure. This law does not require the provision of additional resources in the Republic of Croatia's budget. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72378	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, good. I'm opening a debate. There's a distinguished representative of Danica Hursa on behalf of the HNS-HSU club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72379	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I'm going to say that the HNS-HSU club will support this bill. In short, we heard in the report, that is, the State Secretary's presentation, so I'm just going to point out what's actually being arranged in this bill's proposal. Therefore, there is a alignment of the terms with the General Administrative Procedure Act, the party's right to a legal remedy is further resolved and the mandatory application of the General Administrative Procedure Act is discussed. The harmonisation of the provisions of the specific laws also falls under the Law on Administrative Procedure is one of the criteria for closing Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights in the process of negotiating Croatia's accession to the European Union. The General Administrative Procedure Act does not know the term of the finality of the administrative act, so the term of the final solution is replaced by the term executive solution. Further, the proposal for the Law regulates the first-degree administrative procedure which is of the responsibility of the Resoring Ministry and the appeal of the Inspector's resolution is declared by the Commission whose members are appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has so far been done by the Ministry. Therefore, under the proposal of this law, members of the second-degree body should not be appointed by the Minister of Resolute Ministry whose decisions are decided in the second-degree administrative procedure, but by the Government to ensure the 1st right of appeal and 2nd. The law complies with the basic principles of the General Administrative Procedure Act. The law therefore provides for a way to implement the second-degree administrative procedure and the conditions to be laid down by the members of the Committee. Article 18 of the law in force so far spoke of the subsidiary application of the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which is subject to the Proposed Law, since the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act is mandatory, and ultimately the Law speaks of the date of entry into force of this Act. Once again, the HNS HSU Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72380	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Milivo Škvortz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72381	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning, I will say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the proposal, the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on road and road inspection. The proposal for a law amending the Law on road traffic inspection is to be adopted in order to comply with the applicable Law on General Administrative Procedure, which entered into force on 1 January 2010. This is only one in a series of laws that have already complied with the General Administrative Procedure Act. In October of last year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded that the authorities of the state administration had tasked them with making these amendments and supplementing the Laws of Administrative Areas each from their own part-round but within six months of the conclusion being reached. This will address the current problems of the new ZUP under special laws. On the one hand, the special law has an advantage over the general law, while on the other hand the new law has an advantage over the older law. After these harmonisations, the new General Administrative Procedure Act should respond to the expectations of all those who face daily obstacles to their concrete laws in practice, which are that the resolution process is swift, economical and based on the laws. This proposal addresses three fundamental issues. The amendments are first proposed to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act which does not know the term of the finality of the administrative act. That term shall be replaced by the term executive solution. Furthermore, the right of the party to a legal remedy against the inspector’s first-degree solution is in line with the basic principles and provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, thus excluding the possibility of subsidising the use of the ZUP in inspection cases. The law also contains a provision governing the procedure for the appointment of the Commission as a second-degree body which decides on complaints against the inspector’s first-degree solutions and how it will be handled during the transitional period until the appointment of that committee. The members of the Committee will be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with three members, two permanent and one variable. The Government of the Republic of Croatia will have to appoint the Commission within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this Act. We do not have an empty walk because the commission appointed by the minister will continue to work until the appointment of this new commission by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The road and road inspection law came into force in July 1999. It regulates the structure, businesses, powers and obligations of road and road inspection. It is precisely because of the important activity carried out by the inspection that this bill is intended to be adopted. Among other things, there are road safety and traffic safety issues. The harmonisation of the provisions of the specific laws with the General Administrative Procedure Act is one of the closing criteria for us to be closed to a significant chapter 23. Justice and fundamental rights in the process of negotiations on Croatia's accession to the European Union. This justifies the adoption of this Act by an emergency procedure. Once again, the HDZ Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72382	Thank you. I am closing the debate and we will vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72383	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on road and road inspection. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 781. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on Inspection and Road Transport and Roads. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 99 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72384	We're going to point 11. - Final draft law amending the Seed Act, fruit material and recognition of agricultural plant varieties, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 759. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received the proposal in boxes. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Stjepan Mikolčić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72385	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. And here, as in the previous case, the main reason for the amendments and additions of the Seed Act, fruit material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants is to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act, in particular with the conditions for... criteria in Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights. I have to say that here we have one technical correction in Article 33 that is affecting the essence of the matter of this law, and it is said that in Article 33 we had overlapping jobs when it comes to expert supervision of suppliers in the production of fruit material. We had expert supervision provided for by this law carried out by employees of the Department of Seeding and Dispersion of the Croatian Centre for Agricultural Food and Village but also by the Phytosanitary Inspection. In order to remove this overlap, we propose that these amendments remain only in the jurisdiction of the employees of the Seeding and Disposal Office. Let me just explain, this professional surveillance is in some way taking place with the supplier or manufacturer of the nobles or the foundation. Therefore, there are only controls to be carried out by experts or experts in plant health when it comes to diseases and agricultural pests were primarily quarantined. This part of the amendments relating to compliance with the Administrative Procedure Act relate exclusively to those proceedings in respect of the appeal period following the adoption of a decision by the competent authority or inspection service. The solutions so far were that the appeal deadline was 8 days, and according to the new General Administrative Procedure Act, the deadline is practically aligned and changed to 15 days. In the case of applying the two-stage principle in the resolution of the administrative procedure when it comes to inspection or administrative supervision, we had the procedure applied but in one body of the state administration, which is contrary to the Administrative Procedure Act and here we propose amendments and additions in such a way that the management procedure in the first degree remains in the control of our inspection services in the regional and regional offices, but that the conduct of the administrative procedure in the second instance be done in the manner of the commission, no more the Commission of the Ministry than the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And these provisions or amendments and amendments to the laws are also designed to make up the commission of three members. It is predicted that members must also have adequate professional training, i.e. 5 years of work experience on certain jobs. For reasons that I have said in advance that the condition in some way is to remove the criteria in Chapter 23, the Government proposes that the law be passed in an emergency procedure. Excuse me. We have had discussions on the committee and certain observations of the Committee on Law that have come into the form of amendments that are of nomotechnical nature that we accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72386	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's distinguished representative, Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72387	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is already said that this amendment of the law is also about the harmonisation of the law with the General Administrative Procedure Act so as to define actions in all administrative matters. That is how the inspector's procedure is defined in the event of an infringement involving the issue of a solution to which the party has the right to appeal. The statement of the appeal set the deadline and defined body to which the frogs are pronounced. The body to which the appeal is made shall be defined by the number of members and by the necessary expert training and shall be obliged to adopt the Rules of Procedure. In addition, they got rid of the State Secretary as he said overlapping expert supervision in such a way as to precisely determine the institution responsible for control and expert supervision. Mr. Vice President, let me be allowed to immediately after this speaker to say that the HNS Club, HSU, will support this law but the next two laws that are on the agenda, because in fact the next two laws are about the same problem. Therefore, the appeal is resolved, the appeal deadline is given and the body to which complaints will be given is determined. Therefore, the HNS Club, HSU, supports the Law on Amendments to the Seed Act, fruit material and recognition of the variety of agricultural plants, further the Law on Plant Health and the Food Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72388	Thank you. It is the turn of the HDZ Club's distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72389	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. Here is the HDZ Club which supports the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Seed Act, fruit material and recognition of the variety of agricultural plants to be adopted in an emergency procedure. The Secretary of State explained in detail that we do not have too many amendments, we will support exactly as proposed, but since the changes relate only to these minor alignments with the General Administrative Procedure Act. I will only briefly remind myself of the latest amendments to the 2008 Seed Act and point out that this sector of semi-separation and distribution is in the agricultural production sense that it has a significant place in the total Croatian economy, indicating not only a high level of expertise and knowledge about genetics and fertilisation but also the amount of produced seed and fruit material in Croatia. Thus, according to the 2007 report of the Department of Seeding and Dispersion, about 47 thousand tonnes of wheat were produced and declared, 9 thousand tonnes of barley, 7 thousand tonnes of corn, 6 thousand tonnes of soybeans and 3 tonnes of potatoes, and about 3 million seedlings of fruit species, and about 7 million vines of vaccines. On the market of the country of Croatia as well as on most production areas under wheat, barley, corn, soybeans are the most represented breeds of domestic processing houses, which is partly the consequence of the state’s measures in the production of war crops, which the country has linked to the use of certified seeds and fruit material, is aware, of course, that quality seed and quality fruit material is the first link in the chain of sustainable profitable agricultural production. And I believe that these are significant quantities and this is precisely why. Something I would also like to point out here that scientists of the Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb and the Institute of Winery and Winery, the Institute of Genetics and Prominents have been working for many years on the rescue and revitalisation of Croatian varieties of vine vines, and as a result of several scientific and professional projects has been found, described and identified around 130 varieties, and almost all of them are collected in the so-called. Database gene. It also started with their individual clone selection, which is also the highest level of genetic and scientific selection within the population of a variety. This project is implemented with the meaning of the financial support of the Ministry of Science, and its aim is the scientific results of course, but has not been completed and has not led to those results. It's a practical application of all these scientific results. So here I also point out that other institutions, but also other ministries, are involved in such important projects because it is not just indigenous varieties of vines where these results are run and brought to some extent, but rather numerous indigenous varieties of maraška, indigenous varieties of olives and many other plant areas. So here we have room for all the other institutions, so here I call somehow that everyone who can get involved in this part. The law opens the possibility of such things, it is necessary to provide perhaps additional funding, and perhaps only by transferring certain funds to these very projects because it is a huge potential that exists in the protection of precisely indigenous varieties. This is what we can be competitive with in the European Union. This law is also in line with the Law on the European Union, meaning in the section of seed farming and the recognition of new varieties of agricultural plants, and doing business in that segment is regulated and in line with the conditions and criteria applicable in the countries of the European Union. Here are the additional amendments and this harmonisation with the General Administrative Procedure Act, along with those cited by the State Secretary, I believe that improvements are one additional security and therefore here is the Croatian Democratic Community club that supports these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72390	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. We have one application. Dear Representative Dragutin Bodakosh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72391	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So it is this Law on Seeds and Fruit Material and the recognition of these varieties that certainly is a very significant law, especially on a country like Croatia that has developed agriculture. Croatia, with its production, was a significant producer of quality genetic seed and material, and this was precisely produced in its own institutes and this development of genetics and genetics that created their own varieties. We also had offerings that were known before the war, and probably in this time we should continue to remain as such. It has been known to be Slavonic-Baranja technology in the production of cereals that has certainly been at European level. It is also these 850 thousand hectares where we sow these grains and others that certainly require one large amount of quality seed. On this basis, this law was passed, but also on this basis these changes are also made, normally to make this law as high and better. However, we pass the law but the provisions that determine and technical requirements are mostly passed by a certain act, which is the minister as one of the sublaws. Whether it's rules or something else anyway, but it's precisely them that make it possible for a faster conductivity and to amend this legal regulation because normally we can't define all this by law. Seed producers in the Republic of Croatia do not have any greater objections to these changes that are here, we are talking about these inspection changes, but I regrettably have to say that there have been a lot of objections and that as such sublegal changes have led to an absurd state that a country that is truly quality, what I have said about genetic production, genetics, the change of one rule allowed uncertified seeds to come to our fields. And what that non-certified seed means is the question of using the attic as a seed commodity and it is created by one misreading of the EU rules on the use of seeds. In EU Member States, so-called farm seed or farm seed in the case of producers which can only be produced for their own purposes. It can only be used by the economy that produced it. We unfortunately have one today, you can see on Winkowska TV, on some, that this seed is sold as a given or exchanged which is certainly not right as such. Farm seed is also only one auxiliary seed for smaller family economies that reduce and have a modester annual income. In addition, the farmer's seed must never appear anywhere on the market, it must not be exchanged among consumers that we have today, Mr. Secretary of State. Furthermore, the same thing that is significant, this farmer’s seed must be done on the same machines as large seed houses do. What's that about? Because it is precisely such seed, if it is not finished, can cause great difficulties, because if this seed is not finished enough, it is not healthy enough, it does not satisfy most of the above mentioned quality seed parameters prescribed by the law which makes the certified seed known. All this in the attic is not the case because it represents only a mercantile grain of no value, as a seed for the purposes of sowing. Of course, it is possible, and that is the fact that some domestic wise men or some political staff have thought to sow the ceiling instead of the farmer’s seed and thus avoid all those obligations that producers of declared and certified farm seed have. But what happens here also loses the state as such because this seed is not paid for by any VAT. At the same time other problems occur, agricultural production is improved due to low yields. You see and you will see cases in a year or two of poop will be a situation with our production if we continue at that pace. Next thing you know, there's a huge crop infection. The owners of these varieties, i.e. those ceilings, do not pay any contributions at all, i.e. they do not have any VAT. And what's most interesting is that they get the same incentives from 2000, I don't know 250 kn for wheat, and I don't know any one who bought certified seeds, either from the institute or any other. I think it's one problem that's much higher than in this change that we have today. Unfortunately, we've legally determined these things, but under the law, by changing that rule that uncertified seed could come into the fields. You have allowed the ceiling to be sown and at the same time with such seeds all those surfaces that are sown to produce certain production in the same way, to obtain a certain incentive. And this production, whether it's within those five tons of what we have for wheat, is either lower or I don't know how much that's another question. I think that such a thing is not sustainable when we enter the European Union, because in the European Union, too, it is very much concerned about what is the safety of production, what is the conservation of the environment, what is the welfare of animals. Therefore, when we have in a year or two of rooted fields, then as saviors, these pesticide producers will come and we will pollute our surfaces in some way and with such pesticides we will bring to a situation that will be catastrophic about this protection of the environment. I think it's the key thing to get to know both these things and this Parliament and these institutions and that our inspection services must play the role. I'm going back to the part that's changing here, that fit sanitary protection to be in the context that we can't let our fields and fields be soon as such and polluted. And finally, let me say it. What I'm saying is not my personal opinion. It is the opinion of the people of the profession, the opinion of the seeders who had certain meetings and who gave their opinions that are going in this direction. Because without seeding, there's no planting. We also have to do, they consider it a critical mass on those who pass laws and regulations. It is we who pass the laws but are the same ministry that lays down certain regulations. How they themselves speak of how to put pressure on these legislators. And what's finally said at such a gathering is that no one's heard from the Ministry of Agriculture, which is very difficult, and I think we should think about it especially Mr. Secretary of State, because I know that some of the talks were in the ministry as well. But also, what happens to the attic is a very important issue, because as a country, we are certainly interested in developing the genetic composition of our genetics production and also in being as such quality exporters because we also have good results from exporting to Turkey and I don't know any other country where our seed is very high quality. As such accepted and as such must be used. Let us not allow ourselves in our fields to destroy the production that we have produced for years as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72392	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72393	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Seed Act, fruit material and recognition of the variety of agricultural plants. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 759. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Seed Act, fruit material and recognising the variety of agricultural plants. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 94 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72394	We move to point 12. and that is - Final proposal of the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Law on Plant Health, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 760. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Stjepan Mikolčić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72395	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. This time, I'll be brief not to repeat myself on the reasons set out in the previous law. The reasons for the amendments and additions to the Proposal for a Law on Plant Health are exclusively in compliance with the Law on Administrative Procedure, i.e. by removing the criteria in Chapter 23. In practice, these amendments and additions we make through Article 54 are related to the implementation of the administrative procedure in the sense of the issue of a solution by the party having the right to appeal. The appeal period, which has been defined for eight days, is extended to 15 days and in the inspection procedure, we are also applying a new two-stage principle that the first degree of administrative oversight of the inspection procedure is carried out by our inspector in the regional or regional unit. The second stage practically resolves the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is appointed by the Ministry. Also defined here is the Commission, the Government's Commission of three members with five years of experience of certain experts with appropriate expertise. We are also proposing this legislative proposal to follow an urgent procedure aimed at completing the accession negotiations for Croatia's membership in the European Union as soon as possible. And here we had an amendment to the Legislative Committee, which is the nomotechnical nature that we accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72396	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's distinguished representative, Danica Hursa. Here you go. Everything's fine, so there's no discussion. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative of Branko Boxti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72397	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here on behalf of the HDZ Club, I can say in the beginning that we will support the amendments to this law. The primary objective of plant health is to protect plants, plant products and other controlled objects from harmful organisms to prevent the introduction and spread of harmful organisms of plants, to determine the presence of species of harmful organisms, to enable optimal production and trade in plants, and to protect the environment from the effects of harmful organisms. By introducing biological protection and directing the development of plant health, it also means enabling the education and awareness-raising of the population about the importance of proper plant health. During growth and development, cultured agricultural plants and plants that are free to grow in nature are permanently threatened by harmful organisms such as insects, greens, weeds, bacteria, mushrooms, viruses and other harmful organisms, whether they are fed, caused by plant diseases or by their pests. Harmful organisms of plants do not pose a direct risk to human and animal health, but they may affect the reduction in the yield or quality of food of plant origin by their appearance to a greater extent. They can also cause major economic damage and, in drastic cases, affect the disappearance of certain plant species. In order to prevent the decline of agricultural crops and the yield of agricultural products and to ensure the safety of the permanent supply of food to the population of plant origin, it is necessary to implement plant protection against harmful organisms. It is necessary to respect the fundamental constitutional principles that water, land, forests are a plant and animal world, and other parts of nature of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia and have its special protection. The relevant law and implementing rules in which other EU rules in the field of plant health have been incorporated have created a modern and legal basis for establishing a system of plant health as well as other Member States of the European Union, with regard to compliance, and the sanitary measures applicable on the common market. It also applies internationally recognised risk assessment principles and other scientifically justified measures in the field of plant health. Cooperation and exchange of information from databases relating to the field of plant health, the removal of barriers to international trade in plant products and other controlled objects. In addition, the introduction of a register of manufacturers, processors of importers and plant distributors, plant products and other controlled objects, as well as a system of plant passports, the provision of a fit sanitary examination of the issuing of plant passports for certain plants which are moved within the single market of the European Union, the establishment and development of the information system, and the obligation to report and keep the necessary records. The Republic of Croatia, like all countries in the environment, faces the need to prevent corruption, especially in the activities and work of state bodies. To that end, in order to align the way all state authorities work with the common obligation to adopt and comply with all laws under the General Administrative Procedure Act. This law regulates the application of the provisions of the ZUP in all administrative matters in the handling of all administrative matters, and this proposal will allow for a transparent way of dealing with the application of the methods and procedures in all administrative matters in the manner prescribed by the ZUP. Once again, the HDZ club will support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72398	Thank you. We have one individual debate, the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72399	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here is this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Plant Health, with the final proposal I will support for the reason that it amends and complements in a good way the important provisions of the applicable Law on Plant Health, and for the purpose of harmonisation, means the way all state bodies work. This proposal regulates the application of the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act in the handling of all administrative matters, and this proposal will allow for a transparent way of dealing with the application of methods and procedures in all administrative matters, in such a way as to be prescribed by the Administrative Procedure Act. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget, and the adoption of an emergency procedure is proposed, as the measures established must be implemented by individual bodies in order to comply with Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights. The current Law on Plant Health identified important issues in the field of plant health, and created the basis for the adoption of other acts, which will allow further harmonisation of the regulations of the Republic of Croatia, with the legal property of the community. The law also provides for the establishment of a system that enables adequate health protection of plants, as well as in other Member States of the European Union, with regard to compliance in the implementation of measures, as well as the fulfilment of requirements applicable on the common market. Since the current law accurately defines all the tasks and tasks of plant protection resulting from accepted and signed international contracts, which distinguishes the duties of the main holders of these transactions, thus creating the basis, the legal basis means for the more transparent design of the area of plant health, but a clearer hierarchy of responsibility for that area has been established, these are reasons, which are positive for supporting this proposal. But here, at the end of my debate, I will remind myself a little bit that here during growth and development, it means cultured agricultural plants and plants that are freely growing in nature, that they are permanently threatened with harmful organisms, plant organisms, means such as insects, greens, weeds, bacteria, viruses and other organisms, and that these harmful organisms are most often not a direct threat to human and animal health, but by their appearance in greater proportions, they can affect the reduction and yield, but also the quality of food of plant origin, and they can also cause major economic damage, and in extreme cases also affect the disappearance of certain plant species. In order to prevent the decline of agricultural crops and yields, and to ensure the security of the permanent supply of food to the population of plant origin, it is necessary to implement the protection of plants from harmful organisms, while respecting the fundamental constitutional principles that water, land, forests are plant and animal life, and other parts of nature, of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, and have its special protection. Plant health has a different effect on environmental protection and natural resources, since the measures taken, therefore, in order to eradicate and suppress harmful organisms of plants, if not implemented in the right way, can have a negative impact on the environment. Further certain plants such as weeds, and invasive species can also directly damage the environment, there is further need to take care of the preservation and improvement of natural resources for the present and future generations, as well as the promotion of natural rural eco-systems and heritage, and the preservation of natural sources of drinking water represents a Croatian strategic competitive advantage. In addition, plant health has a different impact on the sustainable development of agriculture and ensuring sufficient quantities of food, as harmful organisms of plants directly affect the reduction of yields and quality of agricultural products, as well as on the increase of production costs, the application of uniform sanitary measures agreed at European Union level, and a certain number at global level affecting balanced international food trade. International fitness sanitary measures should be based on scientific achievements, making sure they do not have a negative impact on international trade, which is not always the case and rational phytosanitary measures are one of the components of the EU's common agricultural policy reform. I will also remind you that the Republic of Croatia has also drawn up a strategy which is precisely defined by 2013 which is what we need in this segment and we need to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72400	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72401	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Health. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 760. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. The amendment has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the final draft law by the applicant in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Health. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 98 votes, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72402	We move to point 13, that is - Final proposal of the Law amending the Food Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 761 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Stjepan Mikolčić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72403	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, here is another one in a series of our laws or special laws that we are harmonising with the Law on Administrative Procedure, i.e. the condition of meeting the criteria in Chapter 23 for the conclusion of our accession negotiations for EU membership. In the amendments and additions to the Food Act in the same way as in previous cases, we are in line with the new Law on Administrative Procedure in a manner, and here is a slightly different situation because under this law we have the conduct of 3 competent bodies or bodies in inspection, which is our Agricultural Inspection, it is the State Inspectorate and Sanitary Inspectorate of the Ministry of Health. In the same way, it is defined here that after the decision on the inspection supervision of the party, they have the right to appeal from the previous 8 days practically on 15 days, i.e. the principle of two-stage treatment in the exercise of such administrative supervision. And here it is defined that the first-degree procedure is at the level of the inspector of the Agricultural Inspectorate, the State Inspectorate and the Sanitary Inspectorate of the Ministry of Health, and that the second-degree procedure is at the level of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's commissions to be appointed to these 3 bodies, means the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Health and the State Inspectorate. For the same reasons as in previous cases, we suggest that these amendments and amendments be adopted by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72404	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We have one application, on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative, Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72405	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues so here's what the Secretary of State said is important for the amendments and additions of this law, I would like to say on behalf of the club immediately that we will, of course, support this, but all of this will be supported and talk about the law, or about food safety, and here I would just like to remind myself of the 15th of May 2007 when this Food Safety Act was passed. And why was that law even passed? Regardless of the different interpretations, but this law was very important to us and only because the highest standards of food safety were implemented within that law. We all remember in the '90s, different outbreaks of zoonoses, for example. cow madness, then dioxins found in feed for animals, sowing of certain oils such as olive oils, etc. And all of this in reality in the EU started to issue a "white book" on food safety in one sense and new food safety concepts were promoted in 2000. Namely, it is a concept from field to table, from farm to table where the emphasis is placed on the responsibility of everyone in the food chain from primary production, processing, transport to trade and consumers, or food safety is controlled and monitored as a continuous chain. We also have a horizontal approach in this new concept of this law. In fact, the food safety control system no longer distinguishes between animal and non-animal food. It's also no longer the difference between food for animals and food for humans because, of course, it's hard to believe if we already have something in primary feeding, here's what we had here dioxin, that it won't affect people's health. Also, here I am important to stress that a great influence on this was had by both civil associations and consumer associations because of course we are all consumers of consumption and it is very important to us, if not in another way, and then legally ensure that we know that we eat healthy food. As far as this proposal for a law amending the Food Act is concerned, the Secretary of State has generally said everything that I may only briefly repeat, which is that this law has previously established the right of the party to appeal but only to launch a administrative dispute. Article 12 on a general administrative procedure which entered into force on 1 January 2010 lays down the right of the party to a legal remedy, i.e. the principle of two-stage settlement. that the party has the right to appeal against a first-degree decision if the law is not otherwise prescribed, and against a second-degree decision, i.e. against a first-degree decision against which an appeal is not permitted to initiate a administrative dispute. It was necessary to lay down the right of the party to appeal against the solution of competent inspectors, veterinarians, agricultural, sanitary, economic inspectors in the district units of the authorities responsible for carrying out inspection and persons authorised to carry out official controls, i.e. official veterinarians in the area units of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. The deadline for the appeal is 15 days from the day of delivery of the solution. The appeal shall be made to the relevant Board of Appeal in the bodies responsible for carrying out the inspection. What is also important to say is that here it is by this amendment and by the adoption of this law is proposed by an urgent procedure. Why? In order to meet the criteria for the closure of Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights. What I'm trying to say is, last year, Chapter 12 on food safety and phytosanitary supervision has already been closed. This only speaks with us about the laws we have done a good job and that Croatia is indeed a country that can boast of safe food, which is very important in tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72406	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72407	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Food Act. It was an emergency procedure. P.Z. No. 761. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Food Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This Final Proposal for the Food Act was adopted unanimously by 98 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72408	We move to point 14. that is - Final bill on the amendment and addition of the Law on Maritime Fisheries, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 768 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Stjepan Mikolčić State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72409	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As in previous cases, and this draft bill amending and supplementing the Maritime Fisheries Act, we are in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act in the manner in which the solution is made by our fishing inspector. The party has the right to appeal from 8 days to date, the deadline shall be extended to 15 days and in further administrative proceedings in respect of inspection supervision we shall apply the two-stage principle in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act. First of all, the procedure is in the direction of our fishing inspectors in the area and regional offices, and second-degree action is in the government's commission of the ministry, which also consists of three members here, but the conditions that must meet that they have three years of experience in certain jobs. For the same reason as previous cases, we propose that this law be adopted in an emergency procedure or procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72410	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72411	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. Here is another draft law that we are harmonising with EU legislation. When we talk about the bill of amendment and the addition of the Marine Fisheries Act here in the opening section let me briefly present marine fisheries, and in a way that says that fishing has been somewhere since 2008, so it kept the trend in 2009 to a little less than 50,000 tonnes of which the most significant part makes blue fish, a slightly smaller part of white. In 2008, it was also the year the Republic of Croatia reached that level of fish catches in pre-war years. And since 1998, there has been an increase in fish catches, and it is precisely tiny blue fish, and for twice as much reason, because the demand for salty incubation has caused a constant increase in fishing. Salt fish are almost entirely of which production is significant almost entirely exported to Italy, slightly less to Spain, and whitefish fishing is almost the same in that period since 1998. The number of fishermen in economic fishing has increased somewhere now to three thousand 740, and the number of fishing vessels is 3 thousand 716 and is increasing. The gross added value of fishing activity according to the State Statistics Institute data since 2001 is growing from around 284.7 million kuna to 410.6 million kuna in 2004. Fishing makes up about 0.2 gross social product of the Republic of Croatia. In 2007, marine fisheries have 855 million kuna of total income, 801 million kuna of total expenditure means about 70 million profits before tax. And the number of fishermen is slightly less than two thousand. From the balance sheet from 2000 to 2008, there is a surplus in this activity ranging from $300,000 to $59 million in 2006. I also point out that fishing is one of the few branches that has a constant surplus in the trade as shown in the 2009 data. The incentives for this segment were also significant. I would also like to point out here that state measures to encourage the construction of the fleet have led with some imports of ships to the extent that in swimmers or in a fleet of larger vessels for the fishing of blue fish, satisfactory capacity has taken place, meaning that the fleet is strong enough. In 2008, the ministry helped the fisheries sector with 150 million kuna, which through direct incentives through the price of blue diesel. In order to make Croatian fishermen competitive with EU entry, ship insurance, registration, etc. is co-financed. means to increase the competitiveness of our shipowners. This resulted in significant exports of fishing in recent years with significant growth. Significant processing facilities have been opened and significant, which means that this activity also attracts investment. One of such large investments is also in the Zadar County area it is... Stankovci is one of the most modern plants of this kind in Europe. However, there are still problems in fisheries that have been warned, but still today, fishermen warn about their meetings often, and these are related to the need to adopt a fisheries strategy, to the problem of the cold chain, to the problem of landing sites, to fishing ports, to regulate small coastal fishing institutions, large small but also to increase the efficiency of fish traffic control among all participants. We know that we need and we want to bring legislation into line with European legislation, but we must protect interests in the first row of the Republic of Croatia, as well as Croatian fisheries. Here we have recently had a delegation and we had a Committee on Agriculture of the European Parliament and they have shown us that we still have time to protect some of our interests, to make it wiser than some of the EU's members and that we can do so. However, we must not ignore the fact that in the area of many seas, the Member States that are in the system of the common fisheries policy, and not since yesterday, that their fishing seas are significantly impoverished. For example, the Italian part of the Adriatic, cod in the North Sea, was almost fished out, and Spain for overfishing banned incuns a few years ago. This amendment is precisely what, this Amendment to the Law amending and supplementing the Maritime Fisheries Act, as the State Secretary has said, is governed by the handling of the resolution means in all administrative matters where the provisions of the ZUP apply, will allow for a transparent way of handling in all administrative matters in a manner prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act. These are all meanings of small items in order to comply with these provisions with the ZUP, but this fundamental law allows responsible and sustainable exploitation of living wealth of the sea in an environmentally balanced but economically and socially justified way. This should enable not only the survival but also the development of island communities, it should simply ensure order that suits many islanders, which our fishermen often seek in their demands. Due to the fact that fishing is the traditional activity of our coast and island and the source of existence for a large part of the coastal and island population, I believe that the order provided by this proposal, which is also created in these agreements by creators and fishermen and fishermen, along with all the measures that have been made so far, will be the most appropriate for them, so the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72412	Thank you. HNS Club, HSU, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72413	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. Here we have another one in a series of laws that is not European, but is necessary for the closure of Chapter 23, which is in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act. From that point of view, there are no specific objections to this law and the HNS club, the HSU will support this bill. But there's one principled remark, couldn't we have done all this harmonisation before? This observation is about many of the laws that we have discussed so far, and this law is particularly full of expressions. In fact, the new Law on General Administrative Procedure came into force as we know in 1.1.2010, and the new Law on Marine Fisheries was passed in the Croatian Parliament on 23.04.2010, and it came into force on 15.05.2010, so we passed a new law four months after the adopted Law on General Administrative Procedure. And just when the Law on Marine Fisheries was adopted in 4 months 2010, the HNS Club made its remarks on Article 96 which is now changing, or is in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act. And it just seems to us that the argument of the assessment of the situation in the proposal for this law is thin because we hope and believe that the proposer is aware of the failure he has made. The laws and harmonisations of the law must go on time for our own sake, not to do so under the pressure of the European Union because it is not good and such practice must not be practiced. As I said at first, the HNS and HSU club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72414	Thank you. An individual debate. Madam Representative Mirela Holly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72415	Thank you, Your Honor. I will support these amendments to the Marine Fisheries Act because this law is thus in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Unfortunately, however, the situation in Croatia's marine fisheries is far from being supported by anyone of the country's long-term interest. The reason why we are passing this law is primarily Chapter 23, and as the promoter himself says, preventing corruption, so the deadline for filing an appeal is extended from 8 to 15 days and the Board of Appeals is elected under this law by the Government, and not by the Minister as it has been so far, and the composition of this commission is further defined. But unless there is a good political will, this law will not prevent corruption, and unfortunately it has been in the area of marine fisheries lately that very non-transparent things have happened. It's a particularly worrying mess at sea, so I would even dare say the chaos that has been caused by the opening of nature's sea parks to economic fishing, although it is explicitly forbidden by the roof of the Nature Protection Act. It is scandalous that the Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. Resolute Minister Cobankovic, decided against not only the mentioned Nature Protection Act, but also the Law on Marine Fisheries that we are discussing today, to declare ourselves responsible for managing fisheries resources in nature parks and to open them to economic fishermen. It's an open beet nest. Against such a decision that opened up half of the protected sea in Croatia to fishermen, a whole series of institutions and organisations rose, and even numerous fishing associations that cared about the use of the sea and the fish fund in a sustainable way. Following several inter-minister meetings of agriculture or fisheries and culture, the problem has been decided to address the adoption of a Regulation on protected fishing areas that would regulate fishing in protected marine areas, not only in nature parks but also in all other protected areas except national parks. The problem is that the regulation did not regulate that, when it comes to nature parks, fishing in these areas must be regulated by the Internal Order Regulation of the Park itself, because the public park management facility is a management plan within which the park is ousted and determined where and how economic activities can be carried out. However, the draft regulations in the ministry cut off the zones in a way that turns out that special habitats that need to be protected are the ones that are not interested in fishing. Without any study, without any meaning, without knowing the situation on the ground, without consulting the stakeholders, Minister Cobankovic has passed a rule that is unreasonable, unrealistic and inconclusive. By interpreting the laws of its own free will, favouring minorities, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development managed to confront fishermen in the short term, contrary to existing regulations, to declare nature parks open to economic fisheries under their own conditions, and to question part of what Croatia has agreed with the European Union in the chapters of the environment and fisheries. Minister Cobankovic obviously believes that it is absolutely absurd to the Law on Marine Fisheries above the Nature Protection Act, as well as to such a rule possible in his opinion to derrogate the roof law on areas protected by the Nature Protection Act, which I would say is a first-class scandal. It is even worse that this Regulation is not based on the Marine Fisheries Act which the Minister is called upon because the Marine Fisheries Act itself explicitly states that the regulations in the field of nature protection are not in question. For the matter to be even more terrible by violating the Nature Protection Act, it also deviates from Croatia's negotiating positions in Chapter 27. - Environment. What is unclear is whose interest this is because it is certainly not in public, that these only 0.56% of our seas are opening up to economic fishing and endangering the function of their existence, from which the protection of the fish fund is one of the most important. Unfortunately, this Regulation followed a decision by the Ministry of Agriculture to remove restrictions from certain traditional fishing gears. When the mentioned tools happen, they will no longer be used only in a certain way and for the fishing of certain fish only, but for the brutal capture of everything in their path. It is precisely these tools in an argument towards the European Union that have been defended as traditional and dedicated, and in this case, the duality of the ministry is particularly pronounced. By removing the restrictions they claim in the Velebit Association of Professional Fishermen, the damage to the fish fund will be immeasurable and irreparable. It is interesting that the licence to use these tools has only a small part of the fishermen of 300 of them, which would put them in an absurd market advantage over all other fishermen. Thus, in their letter to the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, the association of fishermen "Velebit" and the vessels of fishermen Lika-Senjska, Primorje-Gorski and Dubrovnik-Neretva County accuse Minister Cobanković of directly jeopardising the existence of 2000 fishermen and the survival of fishing as a profession. In their appeal, the Minister for Fisheries states ironically that when the restrictions are already lifted, it is best to give them all the right to fish for these tools, so in three months neither fish nor fishermen nor problems will be left. I'm afraid the minister has no ear for appeals from interested professionals, environmental and nature organisations, and fishermen. But there's certainly a lot of hearing for someone's interests because this rule and decision can't be interpreted in any other way. The question is, whose interests are these, and what does the minister have? Because the only sure thing in this whole story is that these moves do not protect the public interest, and that is the obligation of every minister, so is Minister Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72416	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72417	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. And even today's changes and additions to the Marine Fisheries Act must have its basis, and as such there should be no special story, it should be spoken. However, here's a colleague Holly's a little wider looking back. And I think what's important about marine fishing is to say that we as a country must be as interested as I was talking about seed material. It's also especially here in most of the sea fishing area, and it's like fishing as an economic branch. Here, counterpart Nevenka said 50,000 tonnes of catches in Croatia last year. However, the increasing percentage is precisely the fish that are not fished with these tools, or fish, but which are grown and are grown as mariculture and are placed on the market as such. In this segment, I think Croatia's sea fishing must have great importance and great opportunities. Normally, as part of this and this very change that goes to inspection parts should be monitored and seen where it is done, how and in some ways to reconcile that part of tourism and sea fishing. So both can exist. In this regard, I must say that one and a half million tonnes of various breeding fish are produced in the European Union. So that's what everything in the greater percent appears as food. Because, of course, it has to be less and less of those fish, which we say is the wild fish that needs to be caught, than we have to produce that fish as well. The value of this production of one and a half million tonnes of various farm fish is 2.8 billion euros. Therefore, in this context, Croatia as such and marine fisheries should and can be placed. More and more because we look at fish consumption. In the European Union, 22 kg of fish are eaten per capita annually. That's different. In Hungary, let's say it's only 4 kg while in Portugal it's 56 kg. Croatia is with 14kg of means in someone below that average. Yet, as a maritime land, more fish could certainly be consumed as well. Another thing that is very important is that this marine fisheries certainly within ours and especially this regarding the cultivation of mariculture, and also in the river aqua culture has a great chance. But one of the important issues that we've been talking about here, which we've been discussing and having it and not having it, is the question of declaring an economic fishing belt. 140 countries have an economic fishing band. We don't. So there is one possibility that this fish production and that what we have in that sea is somehow better controlled. It's another fish-processing thing. We used to have 21 fish processing factories on the Adriatic. There's only one today. So that's the same question as what's happening. It was even that I didn't know I was reading that some factory was deformed and driven to Serbia, so there they are now turning that fish into canned fish. The fisheries negotiations, as we know, are not over yet. That's exactly the part where I don't know what's going on and how much of what my colleague Mirela was saying about these fishing gears, boat questions, etc. That's what they are, what's being negotiated here, and how this chapter is going to close. But entering Europe should surely be seen as a means of realising our own resources. So their use is not that they are not the goal, that we go in only as we go in and use it in a quality way to become a part of this great European sea fisheries market. Normally, even like this, these changes to the law go into that box and then, as such, it's normal to support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72418	Thank you. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72419	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. This proposal of the Marine Fisheries Act is adopted in order to comply with the new General Administrative Procedure Act, and I will support the whole system as one sign of goodwill. But this may also be an opportunity to talk about some of the problems that exist, when it comes to sea fishing in Croatia, of which about 2,000 people live, so 2,000 employees, so almost 10,000 people live off sea fishing. It is obvious that the area in Croatia has more, that our potentials are largely still untapped, we are aware that on the other hand the Italian coast has been quite poor lately with fish due to overfishing, and that this is why a certain fear is opening up, in particular our fishermen, that Croatia's entry into the European Union will increase fishing on the Croatian side, i.e. they will not be able to compete with their fleet and their equipment with Italian fishermen. There were incentive systems for modernising the Croatian fishing fleet, which is good, the question actually being opened whether it was done, whether there was more, whether Croatia could have improved the fleet significantly faster in a short time, and in fact through this whole programme of modernization of the Croatian fishing fleet and equipment and therefore the entire fish processing system ensure a significant increase in the competitiveness of the entire economic branch that deals with fish and fish processing. The question is whether it is possible to include more Croatian small economic operators in the process of modernising both fleets and equipment, in order to ensure their jobs permanently, while contributing permanently to the system of modernisation of fishing equipment and fleets. Of course, the extremely sensitive political issue is the exclusive economic belt. Croatia may have had the strength to bring it in earlier years, today I do not believe it, but it is one of the indicators of the political position of Croatia in relation to the European Union and the attitude towards countries in the environment, and it has actually revealed the weaknesses of the Croatian position. For this reason, this may now be the last chance to declare an exclusive economic belt, and through this protection of special Croatian interests in the fisheries sphere. Of course, we all want an environmentally balanced and economically justified fish catch, the question is how to achieve it, how to achieve it in as short a time as possible, and how to ensure through one economic branch as many people as possible, for as many families who live out of this economic activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72420	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72421	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Marine Fisheries Act. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 768. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Marine Fisheries Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 92 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72422	We move to the next point - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Wine Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 769 Proposer Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, agriculture, fisheries and rural development. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development Stjepan Mikulčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72423	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'll cut the debate short. As in previous cases, and this draft proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Wine Act, we are in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and in a way, herein in the course of the administrative procedure, when our inspection of the service is passed, the party has the right to appeal, the provisions are amended from the present 8 days to 15 days, and in the principle of inspection, we apply in accordance with the Law on Administrative Procedure, the rule that the first-stage section is solved at the level of our regional inspectors, agricultural inspectors, wine inspectors, wine inspectors, and the second-stage section is solved on the commission, the Government's commission, which in this case also consists of three members, with appropriate professional training, i.e. 5 years of work experience in the relevant jobs. And here we propose that the law be passed by an emergency procedure for earlier reasons here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72424	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Branko Boxti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72425	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Croatian Democratic Community club that will accept these amendments to the Wine Act. When asked what wine is and how it is termed, it seeks to answer each wine law, primarily for product identification and correct application of the rules. It has long tried to define wines, and in this regard there is a claim that poetry is the most appropriate language for it. Although there is a lot of truth in this claim, let us recall that the first legal definition of wine comes from France in 1889, and that at international level the notional definition of wine was accepted at the 1908 International Congress of the White Cross in Geneva. Finally, we mention that the origins of wine, the history of wine and wine in general, and the meaning of grapes and wines in the development of human society have been written many studies of debates, yet there are still no answers to these questions. In Homer's "Iliad" the wine is mentioned 120, in "Odyssey" 46, and in the Bible as many as 235 times. I'm sure new research will find out, clarify a lot, but certainly not everything we'd be interested in. Contemporary enological science with a number of important tasks, particular attention is paid to focusing on the resolution of wine production, in line with environmental requirements, and aims to answer questions related to the impact of this drink, and to the presence of certain ingredients on human health. New significant steps are expected in this area as well as in technology, biology and analysis. Since grape and wine production is an important economic activity, it seeks to direct production processes based on economic studies to meet the needs of the market optimally. For winemakers, but also for all fans, vine and wine lovers are particularly interesting information about the history of winemaking, winemaking on Croatian soil. In the area of the Republic of Croatia, ocamines or fossil remains of the ancestors of the wine line from the third period of Mesozoics were found, therefore more than 70 million years old more precisely in Croatia, i.e. in Radovoje. And that this finding is not a lonely case confirms similar findings both in Istria and elsewhere. We often experience the opportunity to prepare soils for planting or other events to dig up stone slabs with remains of leaves, seeds or... vines and to encounter even various objects of ceramics. In addition to the fossil remains that speak of the presence of the streaming vines on our soil in the past, we mention that from ancient times until today, wild vines are growing in many places, which our people call wine, vines, or vines. The culture of growing the noble vine on our shores was assumed by Greek colonizers, and for its expansion into the area of today's continental Croatia along with Ilira, Celta, Thracians and Greeks are also credited by the Romans. In Istria 179 and 178 B.C.E., the Romans found developed vineyarding and olive growing, the greatest achievements of Hellenian civilization. The Croats took the knowledge from the native Romanised Illyrian tribes they found here to further spread and promote them. There was a rise and a fall on that road. Among the most critical are periods of war, and in recent times and periods of disease such as ashes, breeding plants and dangerous pests on the root of the philoxer. From the review of agricultural areas in the Republic of Croatia according to the category of use, it follows that it is in the period of '81. - '90s. Under the vineyards, on average 75 350 hectares per year, and from the report of the State Statistics Office of the Republic of Croatia in '94. We find out they're in '91. The year fell on only 71 560 hectares, and in '92. Year 56 360. So we can tie this data to the Homeland War and its consequences. The total turnover of wine and other grape and wine products from 01.01 to 31.12.2008 was 608 thousand hectolitres. It imported 143,680 hectolitres and exported 28,564. Of the total in the register of registered vineyards since 2003, there were 21,926 hectares and 102 million 505 vines. Of the 448 532 agricultural households in 2003, which registered a million 493 892 members of the number of agricultural households that generated fruit and grapes revenue, there were only 10 348. So ideal land and climate conditions of wine growing areas in the Republic of Croatia that offer us the joy of their own harvests and provide opportunities for their own production of noble quality drops do not mean anything to themselves if they are not used. By reviving this production, many important economic and social issues can be addressed, from employment and eviction from vineyard areas to the development of tourism, exports and in general a better standard of our people. Croatian viticulture is exceptional compared to many others. It must be focused on the production of wine of top quality because there are many conditions, because only in this way will it be able to cope with increasing and organised competition not only on the world but in the near future and on its own market. Here, because of all the above mentioned club HDZ will support the amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72426	Thank you. HNS-HSU, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72427	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In this proposal, the HNS-HSU club will give its support. Why did I come for this pay phone? I came only to ask the secretary of state about the criteria that the members of the Board of Appeal must meet. In this law, a member of the commission should have only five years of internships. The Food Act should have four years of internships. The next veterinary treatment law should be 5 years old. So now I'm interested, and we're at the HNS-HSU club, why is that? I want a very precise explanation otherwise we'll think that maybe some future member of the commission with a done internship listed here in the law. But we won't be bad enough to wait for the Secretary of State's explanation. And if I don't go out for the HNS-HSU pay phone once more, they'll back up the Veterinary Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72428	Thank you. Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72429	Thank you very much, Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I certainly support the adoption of amendments and additions to this law, but since there are no major specific changes, I would not particularly touch it, but here's when I have the opportunity to mention a few words and say something about data and statistics on wine, and at the same time I am aware that certainly the Wine Act will probably need to make some more changes and additions, but of course I wouldn't be now. It's important to say that, and in conversation with its winemakers and with a few of those who really do produce wine, it's always, but that doesn't mean that it is, that these are irregularities. Of course, we can't always respect and meet the expectations of certain people, but in any case, surely in the amendments and the addition of the law, we're the ones who are here that we're bringing exactly that we're aware that we're going to need to make certain changes and supplements because always in these statistics and in their demands are those needs. So I would look back and say a few words when it comes to winemaking in the Slavonia and Baranja area, and of course I would also touch the total amount, or the area of the vineyards that are just in today's time, which date back to not knowing long ago during Austria-Hungarian times, so we will see that these are exactly the quantities that are not even approximate to those quantities that were not known in 1912. When I talk about my county and my county is really famous for the production of wine and therefore in this area wine growing is represented. In our places such as Pakrac, such as Požega, Pleternica and especially Kutjevo and where we have total planted about 1,000 hectares. Of course, our winemakers and producers in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry are looking for their solutions through amendments and additions to the law, so I'm sure they've just achieved what they wanted, and what's making them stop. I'm sure with the resolution ministry, he'll solve all the other problems in the future. It is also important to say that in the area of 2003 and 2009 we planted some 800 hectares in the Požega-Slavon County area and it is important to say that this was supported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resord Ministry. Furthermore, what's worrying is that we are right now, and my colleague from Benkovac also said how many acres before the war itself, we can conclude that today's list of last so I'm not going to say it's worrying. But today we have everything we know about 18 thousand hectares, and as I said just before in 1912 during Austria-Hungarian Croatia, there were 170 thousand hectares of vineyards, and today we have 18 thousand. Furthermore, when we talk about laws and when we talk about joining the EU, then in any case, our winemakers too, which can be dealt with by law now, that is the question. On the one hand, we want to join the EU, on the other hand we would like to protect certain products, but this is not possible. Of course, there is a problem of excess wine that is already showing some problems in our wine production and in certain producers, and since we are a small market and at the same time we are not ready to go to the European market in the proportions to which we should, there is a problem with whom and when we sell these quantities of wine. We should also keep in mind, and this is also the proposal of EU winemakers, and it is expected that in 2014, the planting of vineyards will be abolished in 2015, while there will be no incentive. So in the future, it may also go hand in hand, since we have the quantities we have, but at the same time we know that we have quality. And it may be important to say that 10 years ago, huge investments in winemaking were really made, but at the same time as I said before, we have some problems in the sale of wine, so the question may well be changed. But of course I'm not supposed to talk right now. I just didn't think it was necessary to change the laws. The change of laws does not mean the sale of wine, but in any case, manufacturers themselves should consider it, and of course do some other things. Or as my colleague notes, you should drink more wine. We are certainly a country that does not consume probably enough wine as some other countries, but I am sure that in addition to the production of beer Croatia has certainly increased the consumption of wine in the last few years, but I still speak insufficiently because we have a supply of wine that cannot be sold on the market at this time. And if we're going to encourage production, and we're going to encourage planting, there's bound to be bigger problems. But at the same time, I am concerned that I did not say this, and that is the same legal obstacle, and where we must enable all those who wish to plant the vineyard until the entry into the EU, we simply have bureaucratic obstacles in our society that are here not only in construction but also in vineyarding create huge problems. But at the same time, I come from the middle in which wine production is really high, so it is Požeško-Slavon County and all these areas from Pleternica to Kutjeva I invite you to the Graševine Festival in the 6th month and to experience and taste the taste of Graševine and quality that we produce in our Požeko-Slavon County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72430	Thank you. Replications. Mr. Representative Goran Maric, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72431	Thank you very much. Comrade Lucić, you have said that we have high quality wines but you have highlighted the problem of consumption and wine placement. Well, there's no doubt that there's a huge problem of consumption and placement and there's more reason for that. Let us compare only the consumption of tourism in Croatia and tourism consumption in Spain, Italy or other country, Greece and compare the export of wine to Croatia and the export of Slovenian wine with three times the export of wine to Croatia. And we have better quality wine. Obviously, there's a problem somewhere. In domestic consumption, in tourism consumption and purchase we have a problem of trade, a monopoly position of trade and a price of wine producers because the tall have a margin of even rebate and margins simultaneously charge and charge for the arrival of wine shelves. This producer cannot suffer, and otherwise long-term investment of vine cultivation. It's one of the longest investments in the world. If olives are planted for grandchildren, the vines are planted for children. And cannot be expensive and too high a price to return investment in... the problem of Croatian wines is high prices. Just compare the tourist offer of Spain, Greece, Italy, Tunisia and Croatian wines, we will see that our wines are 30 to 40% more expensive, and that is not the problem of the manufacturer, but is the problem of the caterers and merchants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72432	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72433	I agree with my colleague Maric that what I was saying must be the problem. But I'm sure we need more because we really need this wine sale, as much as we've invested in tourism, I'm sure we should invest extra in the promotion of wine. But first of all, I can't and I can't say what we all know, if a bottle of wine at our manufacturer's house costs 30, 40 kuna, so why does it have to cost 150 not to say 200 kuna to the wines? Well these are the prices that really no customer today, was the consumer in the chain of commerce, was in the catering, so it's certain that no one can pay for it today. I'm like the rest of us, traveling and we've been to European countries. For 10 euros, 15 euros you have the most famous wines in top restaurants. Why is it here today with us I'm sure I can't give my answer, I have an opinion, but here I'll keep it. But certainly the problem and the import of wine imported from all sides, and we are these people again, we are famous Croats to always appreciate and admit that someone's better, and we neglect our own. So here are the recommendations that we simply start to think more about our wines, about our quality not only in Slavonia but all the way to Dalmatia, and I'm sure that with the understanding of the caterers, we can certainly raise the sale of wine, and then I'm sure that the new quantities we plant in the vineyard will also no longer be a problem with the sale of wine because it will significantly increase the consumption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72434	Mr. Representative Branko Box, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72435	I thank you, Mr. Vice President. In his opening presentation, he spoke about quantities, i.e. 1,600 hectares of erected vineyards in Požega County, and compared it with data from the beginning of the 20th century. So we have a double problem, one is too small to raise vineyards, and on the other hand the amount of wine, or their placement. Someone on the side of that listens to it, and then you'd wonder what it's really about, something's wrong anyway. And as for the rise of vineyards, I think the government has created all the assumptions for raising a larger amount of vineyards because it has adopted an Operational Programme on the rise of multi-annual plantations, it has also provided great support or subsidies in raising vineyards per hectare. There will be no more of that in the future, so that's where we kind of missed our chance. Here, we mean from local level we were also giving our support starting from county to local self-government units. We in Benkovec spent 6 million kuna on subsidies and raised about 400 hectares of new vineyards from Storm to here. Here's last year we got eight top black wines. So we as a local self-government have also made some kind of modest contribution to solving this problem. And as for wine placements, I absolutely agree with my colleague Marić's findings when he says that the manufacturer is definitely not guilty. We are all witnesses who live in areas where wine is produced that the wine manufacturer does not have too much price and that the problem in tourist workers and traders. By the way, if you'll excuse me... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72436	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72437	You didn't get involved, so that's not worth it. Yes, I fully support what my colleague said and I repeat again, if there is no marketing there is no better sale, but at the same time the problem is in our caterers, the problem is that in our restaurants, here we primarily see here in Zagreb offer far more sides of wine than domestic wines. Now what is to be done is certainly not to solve the ministry with any changes and additions to the law, but in any case the incentives are no longer the monetary ones that we gave to produce wine but the incentives of all of us must be to drink domestic wine and to really enjoy that quality. And I'm sure since I've visited other countries because I've had contact with this production on another issue, the guarantee is that our wines are far better than imported, all these wines we import, but we're just the ones who always give priority to others. Let's start giving priority to our country of Croatia, our producer, and then we'll all have work to do together as well as those who produce fruit material and those who are involved in the production of barrels, pillars, the production of wire extraction, etc., etc. We'll all be busy. So let's be the ones to encourage domestic production.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72438	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72439	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'd like to join you with a few words about this community and a good mood about the wine debate. You spoke well of fellow Lucic about wine, he would say our people are in order. But you said one thing, that, of course, this law can't solve all the problems with wine and that there's certainly plenty to solve, but these statistics that talk about 2008 where there were about 16 and a half thousand acres... There are now 18 thousand, meaning that it increases the area with this and that it can contribute in any case to improving both social and existential opportunities. [[You don't understand.]] And secondly, not to mention that good mood, let's say, created during harvesting, can be contributed to the tourist offer, and good mood can also contribute to the fight against depression which, unfortunately, in future times, can also be one of the greatest problems of today. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72440	And the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72441	Thanks a lot, buddy. I'm very glad to have one of these answers when it comes to wine at all, but I highly appreciate it as a colleague who sits here in Parliament because a colleague is a doctor and comes from general practice and then we in this neighborhood are really a neighborhood, in this House we realized that wine is a really healthy product and that we should use it as much as possible. Therefore, I would only recommend that you do not neglect white wines because you use more black, but I am sure with this debate it encourages the consumption of wine.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72442	Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72443	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here we have heard a lot of nice things about wine and winemaking, but it must be said that it is very much invested in the basement and therefore we have both high quality and high quality wines and I would simply never change for one foreign wine because here is wine, for example, in Osijek-Baranja County, if I may mention a basement that we know long ago. It's Mr. Josic's basement, started with a little bit and turned into something great, his UV can be found really on tables all over Europe. So then one Malvasia, which was wine 0, and today it's the top exporting to Italy, then in Dalmatia, of course, from the Little Blue. Why am I saying that? I'm saying that there's a lot of work being done to protect the homemade varieties of the vine, so that's how we get our own wine. We have very high quality wines, small quantities, and so maybe that export can't be as big as maybe it's good. Because by protecting geographical origin and protecting in reality, we can achieve a higher price. What is good is still our tourist offer, and in this tourist offer and by connecting this green and blue furrow, we must say that there is an offer in our places along the coast, but also continental tourism and here I must say that the quality of wine is improved if we only talk about wine. But also the wine-drinking culture as well. Like we don't have a culture, like taking honey, so we don't have a drinking culture. Because the drinking culture says that you can drink from the appetizer to dessert one cup, and then we often go into the inn and drink it on bottles. Well, what's important is to say just as much as you drink to keep from driving because wine is indeed a joy, but not excessive because then you lose your mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72444	And Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72445	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think there's a phonogram attached to these calls for so-called. visits to our neighborhoods so that we can have the opportunity to convince ourselves of these qualities on the spot. We have quality wine and product and perhaps on the trail of these few sentences Mrs. Sumrak once said in a word or one sentence, "Wine is beauty, wine is food, wine is art, and all of this has to be said." Who's the one who can tell? We are witnesses in one part of our primarily small economies that connects wine and food that are placed in the situation to this day have knowledge, will and desire to offer guests from the appetizer to dessert when we talk about food several types of wine and make a story. Let us remember the restaurants and the bozos we come to Croatia for who acts in such a way as to interest the guest to accept this story, to have wine and something at the end of the meal, to get the guest under quotes to take a few broths of wine with him at home because then there's a good story. So we've made quality education in wine production and I'm talking first of all about that hobby program that's not the foundation of industry or production but is definitely a quality expression. But we'll admit that we've failed or we haven't done enough in the other part, which is just about to prepare that wine for consumption. And Croatia is as rare as the country has the ability to share the commercial network relative to the number of inhabitants, not to talk about tourist areas or especially in that part of the small rural economy that can really give a certain step at a given time. And one more thing. In many societies where I was just like that, such situations leave a memory. People return to those places with friends, with people to show the true qualities of beauty both wine and food in our neighborhood. Because I repeat rarely that the earth in so little space has so much diversity about both wine and food.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72446	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72447	Thank you very much. Here I think I really appreciate all of you who've come forward with the replicas because this is really an interesting topic. Just as Mrs. twilight was saying, so did my colleague Turk, I agree that I'm going back to that offer. Watching other countries do that. You at lunch if you come to any restaurant on every table you'll find a bottle of wine. We're not talking about some top-notch, expensive wine right now. But since it's a different order or not, I don't know, they're going to take a break in restaurants and have lower quality wines. But these are also the wines that someone produces in Italy, France, Bordeaux or anywhere else. What did we do about it? I'm afraid we haven't done much. But at the same time I know when I brought a couple of two, three cases of wine in Bordeaux and when they tasted those wines they asked where they made it, who were those producers. And at the same time I tried their wines there, where I don't know 100, 200, 300 euros for a bottle. They made a brand, they made a story, not to mention the production of barrels that were left out of our hands. Why? Because we are inclined to say no good Croatian barrel, good France, good Italian. Everyone's good, but ours is bad. And also when we talk about wine, then we're also willing to do such a story, and so I thank everyone who's involved in this debate and this kind of debate should be more, but at the same time not just moving from the ministry and saying that they should make changes and additions to the law, but the one who sells that wine at the end or in the chain to realize that he has to sell 100 bottles today, not 10 bottles. But at the same time, the price must be 60 kuna, not 160 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72448	Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72449	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This is my theme, wine for a long time. I don't know you know that anecdote that the father of a dying son taught that wine can also be made from grapes. At least these were stories and anecdotes related to Kyanta in Rome or Italy because they were also made of figs not only of grapes. However, from this anecdotes to something that is real and I really don't know the same if that is the fact that the survey in the United States is about Croatia, about the recognition of Croatia which Croatia is between 10 phenomena is also wine. So, if wine is also recognized in the United States as a phenomenon related to the concept of Croatia, that means that Croatian wine also means something on the international market. It can't mean much because it's not much, because it's not produced much and it's not produced in standards that are. Many test wine deliverys as much as sardines and other things that went into the world and that got excellent reviews of the next tour that would come would have nothing to do with the quality that it was. So the question of perseverance and quality standards is extremely important. Of course, it's the theme of your ministry. I'm sorry, I didn't greet you at first, only the vice president, but it's not that I didn't want to. But like everything else within the entire system, so does the promotion of wine and the use of more wine depend not only on you or your ministry but depends on many things. Today’s fires, unfortunately, show a great deal how many of these vineyards were once more. Suddenly, the pine tree that was the only one that could grow on a field is actually this type of pine tree, the weedy stem, and not the one that was planted and we see how many of these lases, appraisals, or how much of these trains are called in some area, how many of these vineyards were once destroyed at the beginning of that century, and many have moved out because of it, but we are coming to realize how much wine was once in our culture. Of course, at the time of those vineyards there was not so much beer, there was neither Zjuja, nor Karlovac, there was no football in such a way that it promotes, but there was that wine. Our wines were not known for the quality of wine, but our grapes were known for the quality of grapes, and at least when we talk about Dalmatia which I know a little better than other parts of Croatia, and I visited almost all the basements as president... I visited almost all the cellars of Istria, Slavonia and Dalmatia, everywhere there were some valuable wines, valuable cellars and good ones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At least Dalmatia was said to have excellent vineyards and to have very bad basements. It couldn't work, it just didn't know how to make wine. But that's why there were so many people who were so convinced that they knew how to make wine, and they made themselves wine and they said that these wines were good. But for themselves, they did fake wine, fake wine, based on sugar, not on the grapes that it is. This culture is changing a little bit, our wines are increasingly quality, and Croatia would not be known for its wines in the United States if it weren't for that. In the end, some Croatian winemakers, both in the United States and Australia, made careers and money thanks to wine, hence some of them took it from here and perfected it where they are. In this sense, it is also very important and encouraging that the waste that has not been for nothing in the forest areas is converted into agricultural land, that it is being infested by the information of the association infractions over 2,000 hectares has already been brought to some agricultural culture mainly by vineyards, which in one of these picturesque fields are doing very well, so the entire southern side of Brac, as well as Hvar, has been brought in by one very good wine-mining, and more and more bottled wines. I am not unfortunately happy, but unfortunately it is not on the other side I can say how Istrian winemakers and wine producers have joined together into a whole system where each other is not competitive, where he sees no negative competition but positive engagement and one of them is leading the entire campaign, they are doing trips to Greece for Malvasia and affirming species that were, today and conquering not only European space, real wine festivals, even in Bordeaux have their own representation very good. So the standard of wine is extremely important, but let's see if this wine can be produced more and more consumed. More would be produced if more were consumed, because a colleague said how much wine is unsold. Now there are several tricks, which are not only in your domain but... and others, and it would use the production of wine and would benefit... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] wine, because we're all happy to drink wine, of course it's a question of the amount and measures to drink, but at least for the truth that lies in wine and wine veritas, it's good that the truth rules us, not the lie. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we talk about this truth that is extremely important, then let's say the chance that wine can be produced and produced in vineyards is welcome, because the European Union standards say that they are top-notch, famous wines must be produced on the spot, just like olives, the harvested olives should go immediately into production, not stand in the cages, especially not as they used to be in sea water, because other waters were not, in order to be preserved, to get everything collected and brought to processing. So technology should be approached by these standards, therefore in large vineyards, not on a vineyard of 100 cane, understand on large vineyards should enable the building of those objects that are in function of what is happening, of course respecting certain spatial plans and those elements that come out of spatial plans. We have more and more of these wine routes in our tourist offer, the county boasts of these wine routes, people are brought to wine and many other things that can be sold with wine and placed through that dimension of agrotourism, so I say that the Ministry of Tourism should also act in a certain way in the production and placement of wine, and give certain incentives and stimuli so that this consumption is not as great as possible. In order for consumption to be as good as possible, I absolutely agree with colleagues who talk about the price of wine, because look I know a caterer who is phenomenal and well-behaved to wine, because he poured a bottle that costs 50 kuna in purchase or 500 kuna in purchase, his effort to pour is more or less the same, but many have a habit, custom or right to compare to the purchase price times three, or I don't know how many times he sells it. The service is equal regardless of which category you sell the wines. So the control of the margin that would be held in the bars, or in the shops, in relation to the production price, so if one thing were to be attacked, there could be accumulated funds at least to stimulate the production of wine, or to control that margin cannot go beyond one particular price, one certain percentage compared to that of these consumptions any more. In addition to this, I present you with one experience from Italy, which is a very large wine producer, and have excellent wines, you can't say that they don't have, let them compete with us in terms of wine type, but they were more classed, more classed for lower-class wines, just for tax burdens, because they managed to sell the quantities of wine much faster than when they were declared by a larger category and then made more contributions to it. So through the financial side and through the sides of spatial planning and through tourism, and through the side of those primary concerns in relation to the state of vineyards and production, it is very important to help winemakers to be stimulated, but also to be stimulated by them, because they care about selling wine as much as possible and as much as they drink. So they're not the ones who can drastically affect the price, although they're basically quite expensive, as well as everyone else who... You know that black wine is special too, I drink black wine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72450	Red wine.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72451	Black wine, I can tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72452	Red light.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72453	It sounds red to the other one, and now it's red light, so I have to hurry, but we call it black wine, so... , in France you know about this phenomenon of black wine, a colleague of Hebrang could say it on the health side and of course Stjepan could say it because of free radicals, etc., heart disease, how much black wine he uses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there's one more thing, if one anecdote is allowed to apologize in the Parliament, I don't know what that's gonna sound like.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72454	And that's what you'll do in your tail, in your tail. Now the replicas will go and you'll be on the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72455	All right. And someone answered the line?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72456	What? They called, of course. Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72457	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's what I was going to say, what I forgot when my colleague used to say, namely, all that quality, and that's what we got, of course, different manifestations or evaluations, but also the evaluations of wine. Well, we've just been invited to several such evaluations. What I want to point out is that women as archaeologists are top oenologists and that they are appreciated in this work they do because they have exceptional taste in wine and are gladly invited and they are most famous indeed in the order of women. I wanted to say one more thing and mention one thing, I'm of course by the profession of Dr. Veterinary Medicine, but I can't get around our Faculty of Agriculture, and now I'm going to list something of Contesa Ner, Zlatar's gold, the Black Knight, the Black Queen Katarina. These are all the names of beautiful wines that are worked at the Faculty of Agriculture, which are top experts, which are absolutely top quality, are not on the market of course for broad consumption, but everyone who tried them truly honors them. But they serve as well as they do for the education of students and for the education of future winemakers. And that's why it takes real credit to the Faculty of Agriculture and to all the professors, and I'm going to take special advantage of professors' opportunity. Tell Bernard Kozina that. What I still know from some experience and a tour of equally different basements is that top-notch winemakers and do not want to sell wine in broad consumption they want their wine, top quality wines, namely to place or to top-notch restaurants, in small quantities in some shops, they want to know exactly how much of that wine is on the market, where it is drunk and there are no supplies and take care of that top product. And there's one more thing I wanted to say, what I've been up for for a long time, and maybe I'll try to do, are different protections, I think it'd be good to protect a Zagorian gemist because he has a special function in his diet, a gemist as such, and that's why I'm going to stand for it in the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72458	The answer to the anecdote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72459	The answer to the replica, such as the replica of my discussion, is the addition of what you have to say. But when we mentioned the protection of the Chemist to tell you that the syringe was being protected with us because it's the same kind of thing. He says the syringe is like a salty heart, that you have to drink behind it. That's how the syringe and the wine were protected. But I wanted something else... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I wanted to say something else about a health component of wine. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72460	That's what you'll do in the next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72461	Well, I'm not red yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72462	There's another replica, so you'll do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72463	Come on, then I'll do it later. Will there be enough replicas to make everything?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72464	Branko Box, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72465	Thank you, Vice President. Here, the wine obviously gives us inspiration, right? My colleague, Roshin, you've said one of the most revered syntagmas worth before the Homeland War that we're good winemakers and bad winemakers. If Croatia has made progress in something, then it is definitely in the area of winemaking. So, in my humble opinion, it's made the greatest leap in quality, right? You mentioned Istria, but there's another good example next to Istria, and that's Jaska. So, the example for paved wines before the Homeland War in that last state was Jaska Wines, and today we have a positive example, you mentioned a merger I don't know the French have their beaujolais, here in Jasca, or on their wine road can be drank with different names, but with the same label portugizac. And so this is a good example in which Croatian winemakers should go. You also mentioned the medical aspect, I'm not a medic, but the fact is that the French as a nation have the least problem with the cardiovascular system precisely because of drinking black wine. Now, in what amount do you judge for yourself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72466	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72467	Yes, it's from a medical point of view because I'm also a member of the Croatian Doctors' Assembly so I can tell you that just black wine in France has a certain phenomenon due to cardiovascular problems. But it's said that between white and black wines it's better to decide on black wines. Because when you pour white wine or black wine into yourself, you always pour out the same colors. So, at least there's something left in there from black, right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72468	Final review of the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72469	First of all, I thank you for all these discussions, for the support you've given us for all the laws, including this law. I would now try to answer these questions. The representative asked a question of these, there will be one, six laws in three laws we have a category of work experience at 5 years, in the Food Act we have 4 years, and in the Veterinary Act for 3 years. I must say that practically the Food Act regulates the area of jurisdiction of 3 inspections, so it is not only an inspection from the Ministry of Agriculture's domain, which is veterinary and agricultural but also an economic inspectorate and a Sanitary inspection. In their special laws, the Inspectorate Act and the Sanitary Inspection Act have this lower category here are the conditions for this commission, so we have also adapted ourselves to this lower category to be in this basic law that defines food safety and everything that is meant to be. In the Fisheries Act, this threshold is not four years, but it's down even lower. We are here for 2 or 3 years, so the area of fishing did not have a fishing inspector, but the inspection in the fisheries area was carried out by agricultural inspectors and veterinary inspectors. Practically by law, the new Fisheries Act, we are especially setting up an inspection in the way that this inspection supervision works in accordance with the acquis and the EU countries, and here we literally did not have an inspector with such qualifications as we have sought in these other laws and for other areas in the agriculture ministry's jurisdiction. And now I would just try to answer Agent Lucic or correct his allegations that there will be no support for the wine industry in the future. I would say that this sector of winemaking and winemaking here at the Ministry of Agriculture has been the subject of special attention because of the role of this sector, its significance, which you have spoken affortly today. And I hope that we will be at that level tomorrow. In fact, the wine industry and winemaking sector remain in support. They won't be in the way they've been so far, in terms of support for the rise of the embankment. But support remains related to agricultural activity on the surface as well as all other producers in plant production, while the wine industry in terms of obtaining an envelope for Croatian agriculture is particularly apostrophe with an additional envelope of 10m euros. It will be spent in accordance with certain programmes, and the experiences of EU countries that through these species, the largest part of which goes to promote wine in new markets. And I hope that the experiences of the winemakers Europe and the world will also be passed through the programmes and measures that our winemakers will also use and find markets for their wines for very high quality wines. All we've been doing in recent years has been that in a significant part we've raised new plantations, plantations with quality varieties, original varieties, and in the process of recognising certain designations of originality for the quality of our wines, such as original wines, wines with geographical origin that can be more positioned in Europe because they mean that there are more levels of quality. However, all these efforts we have made lately have resulted in new surfaces and new wines and high quality wines. Here are our cellars in the coast and on the islands, and they also raised their level of cellars and have very high quality wines. And one more thing, we had here an amendment to the Committee on Legislatives that was nomotechnical in nature and as such we accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72470	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72471	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Wine Act. It was an emergency procedure. P.Z.E. No. 769. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. And during the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law under Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Wine Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This Final Proposal for a Law amending the Wine Act was adopted by a majority of votes, 88 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72472	We're going to have another dot tonight. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 763 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development Stjepan Mikolčić will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72473	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, let me cut it short. In the same way, for the same reason, we have come to the amendments and additions of the Veterinary Act because we are harmonising it with the General Administrative Procedure Act or we are meeting the criteria relating to Chapter 23 – the judiciary and fundamental human rights in order to conclude accession negotiations for EU membership as soon as possible. And here these changes relate to the appeal period which is defined according to the new Administrative Procedure Act from 8 to 15 days, or the principle of two-stage inspection procedure. And here the first stage is carried out at the level of our regional and regional inspectors, and the second-degree procedure at the level of the government's commission, which is defined here also by its composition of three members with a structure and a working internship on certain tasks and jobs for 5 years. And here is an emergency procedure for reasons like the previous law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72474	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Djurdzica Sumrak's club of HDZ representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72475	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Let me immediately say that the HDZ Club will, of course, support the adoption of this amendment and the addition of the Veterinary Act. I mean, I'm gonna use this time on behalf of the club to say something about a year of veterinary. This year 2011, it was declared a year of veterinary and veterinary training. Well, as a doctor of veterinary medicine, it's my special honor to have it now and to have a chance this year to say something about it. Of course I won't leave, I'd have to go deep, deep into history and roots of veterinary, but the first law ever since Maria Teresa went somewhere when the health condition was arranged, taking care of horses, of course they were the most important means of transport at the time. But I will slowly return to our present. And what I would like to say is that the organized education of veterinarians and doctors of veterinary medicine began in 1919. And we celebrated the 95th anniversary of our Faculty of Veterinary Medicine in Zagreb two years ago. This way I know they may not see it, but let it be heard. We'd like all of us as former students, and the current doctors of veterinary medicine thank our professors, our academics who have had the honor of handing over to us, to all those who are still dealing with science. And I would especially like to say something about fellow vets. These are colleagues and fellow veterinarians doctors of veterinary medicine working in the field. They really need special thanks and should be especially proud of them because fellow veterinarians and veterinarians on the ground today do not have time to sit here because every once in a while they call them boss to come to the intervention and there is no waiting. Field veterinarians are in reality and surgeons and interns and maternityists but are also psychologists and in a lot of cases all of them and doctors who do and doctors of human medicine on the ground know that sometimes a veterinarian also knows to provide a service to a human and, of course, it belongs to the order of particularly respected people. In addition to doctors veterinarians, parishioners and today it is also the agronomies of course and fissures and judges and lawyers they are especially additional. What I wanted to say to our Veterinary College is a top scientific institution and leading in Southeast Europe. The health of animals is equal to the health of the nation, human health. The veterinarians participated in three negotiating chapters and this is chapter 12 closed last year, then Chapter 11 and Chapter 13, all of this is about reality to our veterinary profession. I would also like to say something about the Croatian veterinary chamber of one of our oldest institutions. The chamber includes 3,000 200 veterinary medicine doctors who have a license and perform their work fairly on that field. Veterinary activities are carried out in 59 veterinary cells, 132 infirmarys, 107 veterinary practices, 95 veterinary services on farms engaged in organised livestock production in 4 reproductive centres at the Croatian Veterinary Institute and of course at our Veterinary Faculty. The veterinary activity shall include the protection and control of animal health and welfare, the control of zoonoses, the provision of health-real and harmless products of animal origin, animal reproduction and veterinary protection. So far, the appropriate system of veterinary practice and the dedicated and conscientious performance of those tasks have resulted in a favourable... the situation, as we once said, which is conditioned naturally by the use of control infectious diseases, artificial diseases and by the successful control of the diseases that have occurred. [[You don't understand.]] One example is bird flu, trihenelosis, and global plague. Croatia is the first country in a world where bird flu was first discovered in wild birds, several domestic poultry. Veterinary services have taken extensive measures to combat and prevent the spread of the disease to prevent major economic damages and to protect human health. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this model of bird flu control has been applied in the Republic of Croatia and has been accepted in the world and is used in almost all countries where the disease occurs. Also, I don't want to leave out a big, big contribution from our colleagues and fellow veterinary professions in the Homeland War. Of course, like all others, they gave great pain, especially in the recovery of the terrain, the rescue of animals, the care of animals, and I must say that at that time of bloody war and aggression on Croatia did not appear zoonoses, there was still concern about animal health and health and so on. Thank you for letting me say a few words in this address, just a few words about the profession of veterinarians or the doctor of veterinary medicine and, of course, I won't repeat myself, Mr. Secretary of State. The HDZ Club will support the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act, with the final proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72476	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72477	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a little later, Missy. I feel like wanting to study veterinary again, but I wouldn't go to her for sure anymore. But she described very nicely one activity that is really strong and heavy and responsible. And now I'm going to try to say something in this debate how to protect this activity because unfortunately this change of law it has its logic from these 8 to 15 days, etc., about a first-degree and second-degree procedure by veterinary inspectors, i.e. official veterinarians as such, I don't think it's in anything that's probably not debateable. However, there is something else to be discussed, that in today’s situation when a colleague spoke about the veterinary profession that this particular veterinary profession was not in enough quality position as it was, because when I was a veterinarian and when I was working in the country then they called me a doctor although I did not have the title of a doctor of veterinary medicine but a graduate veterinarian and had my status. People came, called you, paid you, etc. Today, the situation is much more difficult in the veterinary cells, it's a lot of debt, the peasant is in difficulty. The problem is that the number of cattle decreases, which is one of the first and primary problems, is therefore, veterinarians have an increasingly smaller part-round of their work. And at the same time that happens in the entire veterinary system, it happens to increase the veterinary administration. In 2007, the Veterinary Authority had 182 employees, and in 2011, when there were, there was a self-government of veterinary, a veterinary inspection sector of 90 employees, a border inspection of 58 employees. Today we have a Veterinary Authority with 42 employees and a veterinary inspection office with 250 employees or a total of 292 employees. As a veterinarian, I certainly shouldn't mind having my fellow veterinarians employed here, but last year, 83 official veterinarians were employed and 60 more official veterinarians were reportedly scheduled for this year. All this goes according to European rules etc. At the same time, however, there are certain control bodies within the veterinary cells where veterinary organisations under the Veterinary Law and the Conditions Regulation go into the accreditation procedure according to these standards to Europeans and can do all these jobs for which we employ official veterinarians today. It's not cheap, it costs everything else. So when you look, and at the same time this veterinary profession is being held by these veterinary cells, or people who work in the field as their colleague used to say, not these official veterinarians, not veterinary inspectors, but when these epidemics occur, what you said then the vets from the cells go, and they're the ones who carry out that prevention, who carry out the suppression of these things that are happening, these infections, and they sort of save people and everything else. However, when we look at this increased number of inspectors and official veterinarians at the same time, where they should work. So they should work on these facilities where slaughtering cattle, pigs, etc. At the same time as you've been watching since 2006, there were 168 objects where cattle were slaughtered, slaughterhouses, and in 2010, 127 objects. It was 2006 for slaughtering pigs. 162 objects, 2010 122 objects. Therefore, the question arises whether we are working rationally, the veterinary cells are going to be accredited so that they can also do these jobs, but if certain veterinary cells are closed, which are predominantly oriented towards the job, they will have to close completely without saying their own door. So, the Veterinary Chamber, what you said, the Veterinary Chamber was and has its own as a Czech organization talked and everything else and pointed to that problem and to Mr. Secretary of State and Minister. I think at this point that there would be no need to question certain veterinary institutions or cells that are also being prepared, or prepared to do this job and which can also do those jobs, with an increase in employment in the veterinary administration. So I support all these changes that are going on, but at the same time I have to go on behalf of both these people who work, and I've visited these institutions a lot, and I know in what conditions many work on which wages and everything else. And there are few who want to study veterinary today. There's more. I'm the first one not to tell my kids that I wouldn't tell them that he's going to go to the vet school just by looking at everything that's going on in this profession and it's about reducing what's called cattle, and it's also about objects where those vets can work. Therefore, one of these changes is in a legal that is acceptable, but the other is also a matter of discussion and an adequate way of thinking about where these veterinarians can work, not by hiring each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72478	Thank you. Two replicas. First Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72479	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I am reporting for a replica not with the intention of being our traditional controversy of doctors and veterinarians, as we in the middle of the village are doing very correctly and politely, as my colleague Sumrak said, but just to say something. You said that the veterinary situation in the villages is much more difficult, and I would say both where and where that part reduces the number of cattle, etc. I'd say the same thing about where. I'd say in my midst the vets are very esteemed. They're all called doctors. They do this wide part of the business as counterpart twilight used to say from that interstitial section to the operational procedures, etc. And the second, in my midst, increased the number of cattle, increased significantly. The production of milk has increased. At the state level, too. In addition to that, it also says these 540, 550 new stables that were made. The production of milk is in far larger quantities produced. All of that is, therefore, a confirmation of the one who denies it. But as far as this section is concerned, so please nicely so here the Medical Chamber has quite its own mechanisms, both licensing and education, etc. So in this direction, here is an example and an opportunity to help the veterinarians in this way, and to strengthen their chamber and to put a little bit more pressure on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72480	It's nice this kind of cooperation doctors with everyone. Yeah, they used to call doctors and bats, and they used to call car mechanics. Yeah, yeah. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72481	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Milinkovic, the fact is that you said there are new farms, there are large producers who are in the VAT system, who have everything. They're the weakest payers. You're the least paid. You have the highest debts to the veterinarians who work with them. That's a big problem. Ask around when you're there at your veterinary station. I went, I worked on my medication for three, four years, so I went to those vets, so when you get here, I say you have to pay for the drugs you took, and he sees me, look, open up. Here's all my debts, that's all my debts. Well, I know, but you shouldn't have taken the medication if you can't pay for it, because I'm gonna have to. Therefore, it is a difficult situation. Since it is heavy in livestock, it is also difficult in all the services that work and serve that livestock, and one of them is the veterinary service. So let's not. I just wanted to say let's not make it even more difficult for people to work, who have invested the funds because it's less privatised are the veterinary stations that have invested certain funds and which, if they are taken away from them, they will come into a situation that they will either have to fire those people or not to tell individuals and close these. That's why I agree with you it's not the same situation everywhere, but in global here are the data I got from the veterinary chamber. These facilities are reduced, and that's where the vets work. It's the one that works on the line of slaughter, etc. and assesses and is paid according to how many pieces he has examined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72482	Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72483	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of mine. I'll just be adding a few more sentences to your exposure. You're most right. Of course, the number of cattle in the Republic of Croatia has decreased. However, we must be aware of the fact that the war has brought great pain to such a reduction in the number of cattle. Big farms fell, big farms were destroyed, cattle died or moved across the border. However, over these years, and here are the various incentives and subsidies but also the preparation for entering the European Union, there has been a rounding of family economies, so that those economies have decreased with one and two but have increased by more than 10, 20. I won't already have enough big, plenty of farms with one 100 to 400 and even 1000 dairy cows. What's important to us vets is that I'm going to put a lot of, a lot of money into it just as safely as you are not to take away their powers, not to take away their jobs on the ground. The doctors of veterinary medicine are appreciated in the field. Blood work is a field vet. When any zoonosis occurs, believe me, vets cancel all their conferences, all their veterinary days, there's nothing. We haven't even had a conference in three years. So, we field vets don't have time for that sort of thing. They have to be where people are waiting for them. The truth is, he's in debt. Of course there is, but what's interesting here I was working as a field veterinarian in Oroslavje is that when you came into the house and when you saw very often veterinarians, our colleagues don't even charge for it. He says you're gonna pay when you have it, and then it's gonna be a while, and now it's gonna be something else. It's an economic situation and the cells are in a very difficult position. This is why we will try to help our veterinary stations to maintain our colleagues and colleagues who work to make it so much easier for them and to be able to believe honestly, professionally, day and night for their work to be done and to support their family.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72484	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72485	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Gurjica, surely what you were saying in relation to that part, you have now entered into the core of the problem and the weight of that work and what is being done. However, what I want to point out here, which is what my colleagues also told me from the Veterinary Chamber, etc., that just what you mentioned cannot be reduced by the authority of the veterinary service, and at the same time that there is a service, because everything is good while it is good, it is good until there is an epidemic. So we know what happened in '95, '96. the years we had in Slavonia trihinosis, when that part of Vukovar was released, etc. If it hadn't been for the veterinary service, then thousands and thousands of pig samples that had been examined and thus reduced that number. Today, there is no thank God, which is the case, but we are in some way, the veterinarians themselves cut off their own branch where they were sitting because there are no more thousands and thousands of these checks that cost so much and so much, but a lot is reduced until I say again some epidemic doesn't appear as such. So that's what we're fighting for, if all possible illnesses are reduced or eliminated on the ground normally, there'll be less work to do. That's why what needs to be done, and that must be done, people have to eat etc., let's not what it's called that veterinary administration is going to be the one with one, I don't know if it's a plan or an unplanned receipt of so many official veterinarians that puts those who today... Because these jobs are still being done today, and these 60 when you get these jobs today, people are working on stations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72486	Thank you. No one mentioned only one very important function of veterinarians, those who go to field work, who in Slavonia know this, when a vet goes on a moped and, when he goes to field work, when he eats. ... A little imagination, a little imagination. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That'll explain everything to the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72487	Gentlemen, here, I'll at least try to answer some of these questions. Above all, the veterinary sector is really important and important, and veterinarians have given their great pain and contribution to health care, especially animals, because it is a profession to them, but especially to the protection of healthcare professionals and us consumers. On these enquiries, here you have discussed and discussed the reduction I do not know of employees in veterinary organisations, in services, in relation to the increase in the number of veterinary staff in the state administration, in the veterinary administration and in the veterinary inspection administration. I have to say, here we have taken over the legal gain, and here we are, before, about the legal gain. The legal property of chapter 12 is 35% of the total legal property. If they can display this plastic total legal gain, they say somewhere on 100,000 pages of written text, 35% of the waste on chapter 12, and it was mainly done by veterinarians, both in the administration and in the veterinary organisations and services, and they have done in terms of access activities and establishing a new food safety system through institutional and in-house adaptation, here is a major contribution to the completion of Chapter 12, and ultimately to the conclusion of our accession negotiations for membership in the European Union. The new way is here are the official controls that are carried out according to the acquis. In fact, we had a standard in this segment, because those controls carried out by our veterinary organisations with their employees simply carried out those controls and charged and that was simply the reason that they were in conflict of interest. We had to resolve it, we resolved it in a way that we have organised this part of official or veterinary supervision in the form of official controls, in accordance with the experiences of countries or most of the European Union countries, in a way that we have set up services through veterinary inspectors, and in particular that part of the official veterinarians in carrying out these here official controls. I have to say, in terms of guaranteeing animal health regularity, we have in our time guaranteed it through inspection and inspection services. In accordance with the legal gain, the guarantee for the health level of food must be guaranteed exclusively by the manufacturer, means the entity in the business, and our official controls and this official supervision we carry out is in a position to ensure that this production runs in accordance with certain standards, which guarantee the complete health correctness of the food. However, I think that veterinary as a profession, as a profession, has not lost anything here from the status it had, but there are little of the predisposition forces, a little more now veterinarians we have in the system here's a state administration through the veterinary and veterinary inspection administration, but practically the same number of people remain, but I think that the importance of the veterinary profession in the new system is very important, and it makes its contribution to all of this. And I still thank you for all these discussions, thank you for your support, and we still have one and here amendment of the Legislative Committee, which is nomotechnical in nature and which we accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72488	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I interrupt the session, resume tomorrow at 9:30 with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-04-0.u72489	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 763. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted the amendments and became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority, 91 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against along with the amendments adopted. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, as announced, we are moving to the agenda point - Final proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on spatial planning and construction, emergency procedure, first and second reading. P.Z. No. 754 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received the proposal in boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Does the proposaler's representative want to explain? Yeah. Mr. Alexander Russo, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
