ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time taken for recess is exhausted. Please enter the hall and prepare for registration at the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues ready for registration? Please take up jobs. And I'd like the National Deputies to sign up for the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like you to sign up. [[16:06:53]] 365 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. So, colleagues, as we agreed, at 16 o'clock we move on to the question of the appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors. I want to inform you now. What the procedure for dealing with this question would look like. And I would like everyone's attention so that there won't be any questions during the sitting. So first, a report by the head of the State Financial Control and Activities Committee of John Ivanovich Krulk. The report gives you five minutes. Not yet, I'm just telling the sequence. Five minutes to report to the head of the subcommittee. Then it is given the right to speak to all factions and groups who want to participate in the discussion. Three minutes to all factions and groups. Once the factions and groups are discussed, we will conduct a rating vote for all candidates in the Chambers of Auditors. The committee will recommend that we conduct only for those elected by the committee: 29 people. But in order to do that, we have to vote to make that decision valid. So then we're running alphabetically, colleagues, alphabetically, a rating vote for each candidate. Then, when we have a rating vote, 9 of those who have won the largest number of votes are chosen. And then those nine are already considered to be the composition of the Court of Auditors. Did you understand the logic of the question? I think we'll be able to look at it in an hour. And if logic is accepted, I'm announcing a transition to the question of the appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors. And according to article 85, paragraph 16, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 20 of the Act on the Court of Auditors, article 208 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council appoints the members of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with article 16 of the Ukrainian Act on the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors consists of nine members of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the Rules and the submission of the Committee, I invite the Head of the Subcommittee on State Financial Control and the Activities of the Committee on Budget Affairs, John Ivanovich Krulk, to report. Please turn on the microphone. Five minutes to report. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u2	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Honorable National Deputies and Invitations! Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Auditors, who are now here on the balcony in the session room! The Budget Committee at its March meetings last year summarized the results of a competition for the appointment of members of the Court of Auditors for the appointment of a new composition of the Court of Auditors. To say that this question is out of date is not to say anything. I believe that, and this is the position of the committee, which we have repeatedly addressed with the relevant letters, that it is a matter of honour for the Supreme Council to form a new composition of the Court of Auditors. To date, there has been a very serious situation in the Court of Auditors where, in fact, only six members of the Court of Auditors have the appropriate authority, and the term of action that has passed for more than three years. Thus, the Court of Auditors is on the verge that their meeting may not take place, since today the number of members is minimal to the quorum. Therefore, of course, we must resolve the question of choosing a new composition of the Court of Auditors, especially that it is a body that carries out external financial controls on public finances and is a parliamentary body. The Committee on Budgetary Questions had received documents from 67 candidates, which could generally be described as follows: 66 per cent male, 34 per cent female; 84 percent have an internship in the State Service, including 20 candidates who are members of the Court of Auditors, of whom 4 are active members of the Court of Auditors; 5 candidates are certified auditors, 4 candidates are Ukrainian National Deputies; 26 candidates, or 39 percent, have a title, of which 9 candidates also have scientific degrees, 18 scientific publications. The materials for all candidates are available on the Ukrainian Supreme Council website and the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee's budget website in September 2015. So there was enough time to get to know the candidates. According to the information I own, individual factions of Parliament have also exercised their right and invited candidates to the Chambers for their meetings. In this way they were able to directly identify and evaluate the candidates to be submitted to the Supreme Council for election. The Budget Committee also conducted a personal interview with each candidate in the Court of Auditors. In the process of processing the documents, it was found that candidate Petrenko did not meet the requirements of article 19 of the Act on the Court of Auditors, i.e. he did not meet the relevant criteria, namely his employment in the relevant sphere. According to a special examination by three candidates – Zazimko, Shindel, Jadwidczuk – information has been found to prevent them from serving as members of the Chambers of Auditors. At the same time, candidate Jadwidczuk refused to continue to participate in the competition, which was why the committee did not submit conclusions and information on it to the Supreme Council. In addition, following the committee’s decision to continue to participate in the competition, another candidate, Ms. Oksana Prodan, was notified by the Committee to the Supreme Council by a separate letter. The committee’s decision gives you detailed information about the competition. The Committee on Budgetary Questions concluded that it had adopted a decision approving the conclusions of each candidate to the members of the Court of Auditors. At the same time, of all candidates, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council the appointment of members of the Court of Auditors of 29 candidates. Since the Rules of the Supreme Council and the Act on the Court of Auditors do not contain a clear procedure for the conduct of the rating vote, the Committee proposes an order for the consideration of the matter, which in particular recommends to the Supreme Council that a procedural decision be taken first that 29 candidates are allowed to vote before the rating; thus, the other candidates who have not been supported by the committee are considered to have not passed the parliamentary vote and their nominations have been rejected. And so we're going to conduct a 29-person rating vote that we've accepted, which is recommended by the committee. At the same time, this decision of Parliament should be adopted by a vote of 226 votes. Immediately after the appointment of the new composition of the Court of Auditors, it will be necessary to put to the vote a draft decree on the release of the old composition of the Court of Auditors, this number of Decree 4283. Therefore, honourable colleagues are invited to proceed to the appropriate procedure proposed by the committee, and the relevant materials are distributed to you, and to choose a new composition of the Court of Auditors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ivan. Dear colleagues, all hands have documents and corresponding candidates proposed in the Court of Auditors. And that's why we're going to talk. And now I'm asking you to record statements from factions and groups. Three minutes for the show. This will take up to 25 minutes. Colleagues, please record this issue from factions and groups. Please sign up. Thank you. So, from Peter Dustenk's Block, Lubinec Dmitry Valeriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u4	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u5	Dear colleagues! I very much ask you to support the position of the Head of the Supreme Council and now all of us vote in favour of those candidates who are now almost with us on the balcony, because in fact today the Chambers of Auditors need to change and update their composition. Among the 28 candidates are deserving people. I ask each of you to vote as candidates now, and you must choose the 9ths, as well as the approval of these 9 candidates, in order to pass them on to the Head of the Supreme Council for later election and submission to the Supreme Council of the Head. It's really a very important question. And we've been waiting for the competition, the completion of the competition and the introduction of the draft decision and the possibility of voting for future members of the Court of Auditors for over a year and a half. I'm asking you to vote now, and who may be watching the broadcast from the buffet hall or the committees, please come to the hall right now. We have time, 28 candidates. And then the approval of the nine candidates we have chosen to hand over to the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you very much and please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u6	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u7	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We pay our respects to the members of the Court of Auditors. But let's be honest. Today, the entire system of power in the country is being built for the purpose of usurping the power of President Dustenk. We were brought here by changes to the Constitution of the Judiciary. It was said that when voted, there would be an independent judicial system. And where is she, the independent judicial system? It is truly independent of law and common sense. But she's dependent on the Presidential Administration, on the deputy head of the Philatov Administration. For example. We appealed to the court to commit ourselves to publish a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, and the court ordered a hearing on our appeal on July 12th! Five times Rodin will be sold back and forth until our sanity court hears this suit! And another lawsuit by the Radical Party team is for the government and the NCREKP to decide on the illegal price of 70,000 dollars for gas and the increase in tariffs. For almost a year, the administrative court in Kiev, the district, is considering the matter and there is still no decision. Although according to the Code of Administration, this decision would have been decided within two months! And let's take a decision from the Rochenko NCREKP, where the "wolf in sheep's skin" was sent by Peter Prashenko, who made a decision on subscription, agreed to meet -- the likeness -- the oligarchs, the bandits, the corrupters agreed on each other, decided to get 24 billion dollars out of the Ukrainians' pockets. And the grandmother, the grandfather in the village, the pensioners in the city have to give the last penny to fill their pockets. Today, the president and the government are fooling people that they said they had solved the problem, suspended the decision of the NCREKP. But it's actually an effort to get a couple out, because the decision isn't overturned, and people are going to be robbing people with this illegal subscription. So the requirement of my iron team, the Radical Party faction, is to cancel the robbery oligarchic decision to subscribe to Ukrainians, this is the resignation of the corrupt NCREKP and the Russian Wolf and the return to the state administration of the gas distribution networks used by the oligarchs to date. At Yanukovich Firtash, Ljovczyn, today the same is used in Dustyenko because it seems to pay off. We demand justice, we demand an end to the looting of Ukrainians, we demand that President Dustenk be told the truth and the protection of the country, not his own pocket and his own money.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u8	Next, please, from the "Fatherland" faction, the national deputy of Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u9	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Madam Chairman, I ask you to convey the floor to my colleague, without a doubt, one of the best auditors of Ukraine, Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u10	Please, Mrs. Alexander Kugel, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u11	Thank you. Alexander Kugel, Fatherland. We stood with you three years ago and said that Ukraine was Europe. But Europe is not just a democracy, it's not just a free press, it's a very clear and transparent control over budget use. If people in our country were confident that the authorities were serving them, that the people’s money was not built by the palaces of tax collectors and senior officials, but by hospitals, schools, expensive ones, factories, and pensions, their children would normally be taught. I assure you, the shadow of the economy has shrunk. But such confidence in each country provides, in developed countries, for honest and uncompromising activities of financial controls. I learned that kind of control. I'm really one of the first auditors of Ukraine, I was president of the Union of Audiences, I studied that kind of control in England and Sweden. It's a real fight against corruption, it's a targeted day-to-day front work. I want to ask you all, you're not interested, because you don't believe in the room right now, and Parliament is going to build that kind of control. Well, really the opposition suggested that the House of Accounts should be headed by a representative of the democratic European opposition. Also, who will control you? The Coalition, the BP, the President, the government, the government, the BP, the financial committee in the Supreme Council, the budget, the BP, the Antimonopoly. Lying, there's no contest, there's no SCRECRCRCR, and there's no such thing. It's a farce. There's no competition. The year did not go into the hall, they traded as if they were having someone. Did You Know How to Spend? You don't know. And I can tell you, our team knows. There are principles on which the Court of Auditors should work. This is the first red paper, a red flag that deals with risky operations. Secondly, one minute to monitor the efficiency and correctness of budget use. And third, most importantly. The Black Box is when the Court of Auditors responds to public investigation of journalists and so on. But what I want to tell you is, in 2.5 years, that we haven't heard any reports from the Accounting Chamber, it hasn't returned any copies to the budget, it appears. and continue to use only the customers, as the NAMC is now doing, ordered investigations into those parties that will prevent the theft of existing authorities. You know, at least for the sake of convenience.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u12	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u13	If the opposition were to lead the House of Accounts, at least you were afraid to steal, but you're only allowing it to be wide. And so I'm saying, thank you to the support team, I'm withdrawing my candidacy from the account room.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u14	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we haven't been able to register a few factions. Now from Self-Help, please, Oleg Berezuk, then from the Opposition Block of Dudenkov. I think it's from the People's Front. Please turn on the microphone for Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u15	Your Honour, Madam Chairman, Your Honourable Colleagues! An account room is an organ that checks the quality of the use of human money. But the oligarchic authorities that exist and function and run this state over the last 10 years, as a minimum, are not comfortable with such an organ, so it doesn't work, so it's stagnation. Therefore, even today we have doubts that there will be enough voices in the room to start his activity. But since 2014, the number of unpaid taxes on the state budget has quadrupled, and today it's about 56.60 billion dollars, and it's not taxes paid by small or medium-sized businesses, it's people who actually pay taxes, it's not taxes paid by oil giants and monsters. That is why this oligarchic authority does not need the House of Accounts. The Self-Help faction has conducted interviews with several dozen people who claim to be in office, and has selected 10 people for whom we will vote. Today, Ukraine needs to start the work of an institutional state machine that will monitor the use of human resources, which is a major task. That is why we need to vote on this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u16	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. Please, Dudenkov from the Opposition Block. And I'm talking to all the other factions that haven't made it, and the groups, to write down, are still willing to make a statement on this question. If not, colleagues, I ask you to go back to the session room, because now after Mr. Dudenkov we have to go to the vote, essentially. Please, Mr. Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u17	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! Without a doubt, the Institute of the Court of Auditors of Ukraine is an essential factor in the implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's control over the coming and use of budgetary resources. It is not only article 98 of the Constitution. This is, indeed, the tool that should be used more effectively by the people's deputies who are representatives of the people of Ukraine in the area of the exercise of the supervisory function of the executive branch in part of the use of budgetary resources or the coming of budgetary resources. But there's a small, but first, the faction of the Opposition Block has repeatedly stressed the need to adopt the Ukrainian Opposition Act. The proper formulation of the House of Accounts of Ukraine must be made up of opposition representatives, for it is the political interest to make the use of funds as objectively as possible, to demonstrate the effectiveness of one or another authority, regardless of which political party is currently in power and which is in opposition. Of course, the Opposition Block faction will take an active part in voting for some candidates in the Ukrainian Court of Auditors because the institution should be listed. should work. In doing so, observations are made regarding the effectiveness of the use of those reports that are being prepared by the previous branch of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors. For example, let's take the 2015 State Budget Use Report. Indeed, the report was prepared and stated in this report that the current authority is ineffective in its use of funds, its purchase of three ways of production, government services. I mean, more. The most inefficient use of funds has been made through public procurement. What, though, is the reaction from the law enforcement authorities? Reactions are zero. Therefore, the issue is not only about the welfare of highly qualified specialists, who would emphasize the quality of reports on the use and availability of government funds, the State Budget, but also about the proper response of the law enforcement system, because the fact that public funds are being misused is, in fact, the dissolution of the State budget is not coming up with a consistent response. Because the authorities are not interested in drawing on the responsibility of those who make decisions regarding the allocation of budgetary resources held by the governing bodies who are the budget managers. So the question here is not as much in the Court of Auditors as it is in the law enforcement system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u18	Thank you. The People's Front won't take a word for it. Then, Mr. Chairman, the discussion was closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. And I would like to emphasize to you that the first vote will be the proposal of the head of the subcommittee of John Krulk. Mr. Ivan! Mr. Ivan! The first proposal is that we consider only 29 candidates. I would like to point out that 62 candidates have been submitted for the competition. The committee took the 28th. I'll give you my word. And in order for us to vote not 68 votes, but 28, we need to make a decision together in order to consider only those who went to the committee. For a more detailed explanation, please, John Krulko, one minute. And please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I want us to listen very carefully to important information right now. Now we're going to put to the vote the committee's proposal to vote in the 29th, we recommended, but since there's one self-response, it's Alexandra Kugel who made a self-response, so of the 28 candidates. Thus, other candidates are considered to have passed the rating vote and were not supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If this vote doesn't now have 226 votes, then we're going to have to run a rating vote on all 64 candidates, because now 64. I very much ask you to take this matter very carefully, and to vote now to hold a rating of 28 candidates in the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u21	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're taking up jobs. Do you understand the position of head of the subcommittee? I'll explain it again. The head of the subcommittee recommends that we determine that the rating vote will be held among the 28 candidates who have competed in the committee. Otherwise we'll have to put 64 candidates to the vote. So I'm asking you to support this proposal and I'm putting it to the vote first. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. And I am voting on the proposal to consider 28 candidates for membership of the Court of Auditors recommended by the Committee on Budget Affairs. I ask you to support this proposal by the head of the subcommittee and please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please support us to consider the 28 candidates who went to the committee. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:33:20]] For-198 198. Guys, I'll put it back on. If there are no votes, please give me the full list. I'll put it again, just let my papers be in my hands. That's especially what I'm stressing to those who then have questions about energy efficiency. It'll take half an hour to look at it as a minimum. So once again, I am putting to the vote the proposal to consider 28 candidates for the office of members of the Court of Auditors recommended by the Committee on Budget Affairs. And I'm asking you to support this proposal. This will make our consideration more effective and faster. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:34:21]] For 259. Decision taken. And we're only going to be looking at 28 candidates. Colleagues, let's move on to the alphabetical voting. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've moved on. So let's go to the rating vote in alphabetical order in each candidate separately. I'm going to call it my last name after my father's candidate. The head of the subcommittee, Ivan Krulko, will announce the committee's decision on each candidature, and the board will determine its support. I would like to emphasize once again, I'll call it in alphabetical order. Mr. John, is there a need for each one to give you his word? There's no need. Okay. So let's move on. First. Andrienko Jaroslav Petrovich. Whoever supports this candidature, please vote. [[16:35:39]] For -14 14 votes. Please calculate the apparatus so that at the rating date nine of the most effective votes will be voted on. Next. Bogun Victor Pavlovich. Whoever supports this candidature, please vote. [[16:36:12]] For 211 Next. Buhanevich Alexander Mikolajovich. Whoever supports this candidature, please vote. [[16:36:34]] For 105 Next. Herula Taras Ivanovich. Whoever supports this candidature, please vote. Herula Taras Ivanovich. [[16:37:05]] For 227 Next. Drozdowski Lubomir Petrovich. Whoever supports this candidature, please vote. [[16:37:33]] For 224 Next. Kosinov Stanislav Anatoliyovich. Whoever supports this candidature, please vote. [[16:37:57]] For-55 Krywicz Viktor Bronislavovich. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[16:38:18]] For-29 Lepak Roman Ivanovich. Please vote on who supports it. [[16:38:41]] For-53 Lukyanchuk Ruslan Valeriyovich. Please vote, please support. [[16:39:03]] For 261 Meisner Andriy Vasilovich. Whoever supports this candidate, please vote. [[16:39:25]] For 202 Silent Alexander Volodymyrovich. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[16:39:47]] For-23 Unknown, Vasil Ivanovich. Whoever supports this vote, please vote. [[16:40:08]] For 225 The fire of Caesar Grigorovich. Whoever supports this candidate, please vote. [[16:40:30]] For 197 Olinik Dmitry Semenovich. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[16:40:52]] For-79 Odchuk Ludmila Georgievna. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[16:41:11]] For-38 Puckan Valeriy Vasilovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Whoever supports Packaan Valeri Vasilovich, please vote. [[16:41:34]] For 291 Filipenko Viacheslav Pavlovich. Supporter, please vote, Viacheslava Pavlovich. [[16:42:01]] For 165 Pliss Hennaday Volodymyrovich. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[16:42:22]] For-58 Rudenko Vasil Sergiyovich. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. Now Rudenko. Then there'll be Pukir. Now we vote Rudenko. [[16:42:46]] For-36 We missed the powder, didn't we? Yes, please, it's Julia Hennadivena's Pukir. Colleagues, now we're looking at Pucar Julia Hennadivena. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[16:43:14]] For-43 Sidorovich Jaroslav Marjanovic Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[16:43:36]] For 207 The cast of Angelica Volodymyrna. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[16:43:57]] For-39 Next. Liberate Julius Borisovna. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[16:44:18]] For-50 Stefan Igor Bogdanovich. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[16:44:40]] For-52 Court of Justice Fedir Semenovich. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[16:45:00]] For-51 Shah Hennaday Anatoliyovich. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[16:45:23]] For-31 Mary Jacob’s Skull Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[16:45:43]] For-69 And the last vote. Yaremenko Alexander Stepanovich. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[16:46:04]] For-163 Now I will ask the camera to bring me a list of nine candidates who have won the largest number of votes. And now I want to emphasize our next move. We are now moving on to the final vote in the list. A list of the nine candidates who have obtained the largest number of votes on the basis of the ratings. And this is actually the final vote for the appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors. Now we're not voting one vote at a time, but we're looking at nine candidates who have won the largest number of votes. You got it, right? So now there's going to be a final and decisive vote. I'm asking my fellow deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. I'm going to read it so they can check if they counted it right in the apparatus. Ivan Ivanovich, now I'm going to read nine people, and you're going to see if everything has been properly defined by the apparatus. I understand you've fixed yourself, too, haven't you? One second, now. So I'm going to say, please be careful, I'm going to read. So Boone Victor Pavlovich is 211. Yes. Gerula Taras Ivanovich – 227. Two. Drozdowski Ljubomir Petrovich is 224. Yes, Ivan? John, well, be careful, well, I am. The third is Drozdowski. The fourth is Lukyanchuk Ruslan Valeriyovich, 261. Meisner Andriy Vasilovich – 202. Unknown Vasil Ivanovich – 225. Fire Cezar Grigorović – 197, Packan Valeriy Vasilovic – 291, Sidorovich Jaroslav Marjanovic – 207. Right? So, colleagues, I gave a list of nine people who took the highest position in the rating vote. Nine. Please, one minute, Krulko, and we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, I want the only one right now, to pay attention to the entire session room, and now there's going to be a key vote on the list of nine. If we don't start the computer room now, I'm afraid that's going to be delayed for at least six months, we're going to have to hold a new competition. But worst of all, under the conditions of cooperation with international institutions, such as the European Commission, all the technical assistance planned for this body, external financial control, will be completely blocked and stopped. These letters are addressed to the Head of the Supreme Council, to the heads of all factions. I would very much like us to form the House of Accounts, no matter what their names are. All recommended by the committee are worthy to serve as members of the Court of Auditors. And I'd like to ask us to do this vote right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u23	So I put the whole list on the vote, I'm counting it again. What's the signal? What will it do? Colleagues, what will it give? We'll be back if we do. So let's move on to the final vote with the list. According to part five of article 209 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, a list of nine candidates who obtained the largest number of votes on the basis of the rating vote is placed on the vote. I put to the vote the proposal to appoint the members of the House of Auditors, Bokhon Viktor Pavlovich, Herul Taras Ivanovich, Drozdowski Lubomir Petrovich, Lukjanchuk Ruslan Valeriovich, Meisner Andriy Vasilovich, Unknown Vasil Ivanovich, Fire of Caesar Grigorovich, Pakkan Valerija Vasilovich, Sidorovich Jaroslav Marjanović. Did I say that right?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u24	So whoever supports this list, please vote. Vote. [[16:52:06]] For 211 Guys, I'll put you on the way back. I'll put it on the way back. I'll bet you guys I'll come back. Colleagues, let's exchange our thoughts for a minute, for a minute, for factions, for a minute. Who has a desire for factions. Please, Oksana Prodan, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u25	Dear colleagues! We just voted in favour of nine candidates or nine that I would like to see. Or is this nine, which I'm sure will be exactly what I would be if I were among them, I don't think so. But I've just voted and I'm going to vote now, and I'm asking each of you to vote now for these nine people, even though some of them I don't like, because 9 of them is much better than 9 of them. In any case, we're launching a new upgrade, we're launching new people into the House of Accounts. This is what the Radical Party stands for today. You stand, the Radical faction, for the update of the NCREKP and I'm in it with you, but it's only possible to update the Court of Auditors now that we're all voting and let's give 226 votes. The one who speaks but doesn't vote now is lying to everyone about the fact that he's in charge of updating the control bodies for the update of the NCRE Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u26	One minute, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u27	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Respectable Ukrainians who are being robbed through subscription, through tariffs, through rising prices on utility, food, medicine! You see, they don't discuss how to help you not get mugged, but we see the contractors here in Parliament voting for the authorities and the president to usurp the impact on the House of Accounts. The Radical Party faction in these shameful, corrupt, unworthy corruption deals is not taking part because President Poroshenko thinks that Parliament and Ukraine are his private office, where he can decide everything. From the Ukrainians, take three times as many tariffs as you can and count on the Environment to count with the oligarchic groups. President Prašenko is leading the same Byzantine evil, unworthy politics as Janukovic did. The powder will end as well as Janukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u28	Shufrich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, of course, what is happening today is a disgrace and a humiliation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. May the Ukrainians know that the Court of Auditors is an independent parliamentary control body, which will also combat baseless tariffs and corresponding calculations. But I have a question for my colleagues at the hall, please say, "Is there a man in this room?" You think I like all nine candidates? No! No! But if we have an agreement, we must have dignity, and we should not make a mockery of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We firmly opposed many candidates, but this was the decision of the Chamber, so we decided to appoint the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we agreed who did not fall in nine, and for the respect of the Ukrainian people, we will vote, and you must vote if you respect people! And you're them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u30	Please, Irina Heratschenko, one minute. And then Burbak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, in fact, it is the responsibility and responsibility of the session room today — to choose the Court of Auditors, as well as the responsibility of the session room to update the CWC and other important bodies as soon as possible. We really don't have the right not to choose the Court of Auditors today as an important control body, coming out of a quota party principle. Let's put the state higher than the party, let's put the state higher than the factions. Moreover, I would like to point out that we are now on the list of the members of the Court of Auditors, not the management of the Court of Auditors. And this is very important. And I want to talk to journalists and voters: very carefully now to watch how all the factions vote. Because that's exactly how they're going to vote for both the C.V.C.C. and the other important organs that are so much in this room today. This is not to say that not all those people on the list, maybe the people we wanted to see, but you all with your votes, we all gave them the highest rating. Why is there no vote on the full list today? It doesn't make any sense, except for party narrow interests. And that's not European. I call on everyone to be responsible for European and European politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u32	Thank you. Maxim. Semenha, one minute. Then there's Maxim Burbak, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u33	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, I share the view that the candidates selected are probably not ideal. But let's be honest: is this Supreme Council capable of choosing better candidates? Probably not. Today, we are in a situation where we have to choose between a bad decision and an imperfect decision. But I want to make everyone's point: if we don't make any effective decisions today, that means that we are confirming today the status of actually illegal members of the Court of Auditors. Because it is very convenient for the authorities to have fulfilling responsibilities, so - called handicrafts. If we don't make a positive decision today, we cancel, we don't even give ourselves a chance to update the Court of Auditors, we don't give people a chance to exercise their powers as one of the most important institutions of the state. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u34	One minute, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u35	Dear colleagues! Let's lower the degree of tension and think soberly about the Court of Auditors as an independent parliamentary body for control. And there must be all the factions there, all the groups in order for it to be an independent body. I want to go back to the independent NAZC organ, which was also independent. How did this end after the e-declaration? Let European slogans not overshadow their own inadequacy! I think we need to have a careful selection, and representation should be all factions and groups in order for this to be an active, not an internal party body. So I urge everyone to abstain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u36	Colleagues, pay attention! And the Motherland hasn't even spoken yet. Please, Sergey Sobolev. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u37	Sobolje, Fatherland. Colleagues, the scariest thing that can happen right now is the quota principle for a body to control public finances. [[B in m in s a l in]] God forbid, we're going to go after every faction we're going to make room for. This is the way to nowhere. This is the path to direct corruption. When the individual factions that are represented in the government that control the President's administration will then control this government. Our proposal is as follows. The one who doesn't want us to continue to have a so-called temporary organ that has absolutely no control or, God forbid, four or five people are going to be elected now, and we understand who are going to be chosen by these five people, and again, we're going to have an incomplete organ, our proposal is this: to vote for the composition that is now. It is possible to form an organ alone, all the more so that the law makes each one of them autonomous and responsible for direction. Our faction offers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u38	So, colleagues, everyone has expressed factions. Now, colleagues, focus. I'll put it back once. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'm going to consult with the lawyers right now. Colleagues, they're really having a hard time, but I'll put them on the way back. Get ready. I propose to return to the consideration and vote on the matter. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[17:02:18]] For 212 The situation hasn't changed, there are no votes. Colleagues, in accordance with article 28, paragraph 3, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, ask the Committee on Budget Questions to announce a recommissioning of members of the Court of Auditors. Thank you, colleagues. Let us move on to the following questions of the order of the day. And, dear fellows, the next thing we have in the daytime is a block of energy efficiency and housing. And I'm looking at the first draft of the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act (4941-d). And I'm asking you to support the consideration of this issue by means of a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support. [[17:03:32]] For-125 My colleagues, I want to make a point: this is a list of questions about the energy efficiency of buildings. We have 3 questions in this block. If we go in full procedure, we won't be able to look at them. So once again, I'm going to make a proposal for a reduced procedure. If there are no votes, we'll go in full, but I ask the MPs to take a responsible approach to this vote. So I'm going to make a proposal: a short-term draft of Law 4941: on the energy efficiency of buildings. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:04:26]] For-151 And I invite you to a report by the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban Development, and ZHK Babak Alon Valeriyev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u39	Dear National Deputies! I would like to remind you that the first draft of the bill was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, since Ukraine, as a state, is obliged under the Energy Partnership Treaty to implement an approved plan of action and is one of the priorities of the project. In line with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to submit a bill to the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing to prepare for the re-reading of the Committee prepared, with the participation of members of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, a new draft of the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Bill. The prepared editions for review in the re-first reading take into account most of the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. A detailed list of cases in which testing and certification of energy efficiency of buildings is required. In other cases, this is done either by request or by agreement of the parties in cases of sale or rental, such as private housing. A new article has been added on the rights and responsibilities of workers who provide services in the field of energy efficiency of buildings. There's a clearer formulation of terms, and there's a new term for "technological systems of buildings." Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens have been added to the use of the database of energy efficiency certificates of buildings. The bill is also structured according to design techniques. The main scientific and expert office generally supports the bill. The European Integration Committee concluded that the bill did not conflict with Ukraine's international obligations. The Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy supported the proposed approach to regulatory regulation of advertising relations and recommended the adoption of the project as a basis. In view of the foregoing, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the amended Bill No. 4941 to adopt and finalize it, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the subject matter of the legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u40	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u41	And bring it up for consideration in the second reading. Thank you and I very much ask you to support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u42	Please record: two in, two in. Please. Krishin Oleg Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u43	Please pass the word to Natalia Katzer-Buchovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u44	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The People's Front faction will support this bill by voting. In Ukraine, the energy component is very important to take energy efficiency measures. The bill provides an independent monitoring of the certification of energy efficiency of buildings and reports as a result of monitoring heating and conditioning systems. The low level of energy efficiency is one of the biggest problems in Ukraine. Ukraine is 3-4 times more energy-efficient than the average European countries. So the adoption of this bill is extremely important not only to reduce the cost of services that our population pays but also to ensure energy security, to implement European standards of energy security and energy efficiency in our legislation. So I very much ask our colleagues to support this bill and our faction will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u45	Ribak Ivan Petrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u46	My fellow Members, I propose to support this bill, because it regulates a number of provisions of existing legislation: in particular, the bill defines the basic principles of state information security policy in the field of energy efficiency, organisational and legal principles for certification of energy efficiency of buildings, the specificities of testing of heating systems and the conditioning of buildings, the general principles of professional activity in the field of energy efficiency of buildings, the basic energy efficiency measures in buildings and the mechanisms for financing them. Dear friends, really, an important bill and a second reading again, he's already worked out enough for a second read. Let's support first-reading and second-reading, we'll have a normal one that will be able to use the Ukrainian society. Thank you. We'll support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u47	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u48	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Please pass the word to Rybczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u49	Aleksei River, Fatherland faction, Donetsk. As one of the co-authors of this bill, I want to remind him of his history. Two times the government passed a similar bill that was rejected by the Supreme Council. And now this is a bill that has been developed by the two Committees of Housing and Utilities and the Fuel and Energy Complex, which has brought down the flaws that have been in the government bill. We all understand that taking measures to increase the energy efficiency of buildings will greatly reduce the consumption of gas, heat, and thus reduce payments. I've only recently returned with my colleagues from the Green Energy Change interfraction from Lutsk, from Plain, where we've seen the result of the work of modernizing buildings that require prior energy audits. That's exactly what it's going to be for the purpose of getting the funds, international ones, in general. What will this bill involve? First. New new buildings. So mechanically, these characteristics will be transferred to an energy passport. There'll be no extras. The other one. Public authorities have to report to the community how much they spend on energy-efficient light bulbs, on energy-efficient combustion of how much budget it goes. And this must be the certificate received. And the third. Only those buildings, only those of OSB that want financial assistance from the state. These are three categories that will fall within the framework of the law in force. Yet, I want the honourable listeners to control the voting of the two largest factions that formed the coalition, because in the past. Last week we watched the vote for the Energy Efficiency Fund, this is a key bill by the government that's been submitted. He passed the third time, 227 votes from two factions of the Peter Prashenko Block and the People's Front, 157 votes. Last week we voted in favour of energy service contracts, so that business could do energy upgrades. Passed, only passed in 228 votes, from the coalition – 145. I wonder how much the coalition is going to pay for energy-efficient laws today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u50	Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u51	Please pass the word to Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, I would like you all to return to the session room so that we can vote in favour of this bill. This bill has already had such a long history and so much work done on it, and it has to give us, first of all, support energy efficiency in housing. We've filmed as deputies in this bill any requirement for payment certificates for people. This is a law that has to lay the groundwork for what started and the mass thermo-modernization of buildings for contributing to the European Union's 100 million euro grants. Dear colleagues, I ask you very much that it really looks like sabotage, after decisions on the Court of Auditors, there are extremely important laws for Ukraine as energy efficiency, such as the Law on Municipal Services and Commercial Accounting, and there is no one in the hall. Honorable colleagues, requests, all to return to the hall and support this bill, which has no payment, a paid nature in paying for certificates for people who are going to modernize housing today. All certificates, written in the bill, must be paid if State support is received at the expense of state support. Therefore, a great request to you to vote today. And it also sets out a national plan for the transfer of buildings with zero energy consumption, the whole world is going to do that, and we don't even know what zero energy consumption is. There's no standard, there's no plan of action. Please, very much ask everyone to support this bill and start the energy-generating process that everyone is talking about today. A big request.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u53	Colleagues, I'm giving you two minutes to invite MPs into the hall, we're done talking and we're moving on to a decision. So, colleagues, now I give my word, I'm here for our meeting, Deputy Prime Minister Hennaday Zubko. And I give the floor two minutes to speak to Gennady Zubka and ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall and ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite deputies to the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u54	Dear colleagues! I'd like to go to the hall right now and ask for a minute of attention, because when we communicate in districts with people we keep thinking and looking for ways to make life easier or to reduce pressure, including municipal tariffs on ordinary Ukrainian families. Now, there's a bill in the hall that deals directly with a tool that will allow people to define a route map for thermo-modernization, take energy-efficient measures, and thus reduce up to 70 percent of energy consumption in their housing. I realize that the question of subscription and other things goes into that plane to protect people, but you can protect people on the one hand without voting for things that should help. We have long gone on the issue of bringing together practically experts, civil society, national deputies, government, and all branches of government to strengthen the capacity for technical and financial support of citizens. This law also provides an opportunity to establish an energy efficiency fund and strengthen the "heat" credits that we expect will have an effect in the inter-fire season in order to strengthen our citizens' ability to save energy resources. Now, if we're breaking this law, and it's practically been in Parliament since 2015, that means we can not get and support our international partners, including the European Union. Now, let me be clear, we're on the verge that political issues are not allowing our Ukrainian families to live economically. And so what I would like to do is, first of all, to the Radical Party, which is constantly in its speeches, politics is stressing that it's fighting for a particular consumer, for a particular Ukrainian family, to make it possible for them to reduce consumption. And I would like, Oleg Valeriovich, to come to you and take a short break, literally, for one minute, by supporting this bill, so that we can have the prospect of Ukraine as a state becoming energy-dependent and each Ukrainian family reducing its consumption to 70 percent. I'd like to go to the People's Front, to the Peter Poshenko Block, to our trusted partners of non-frustration MPs, to the Fatherland Party, which is also engaged in energy efficiency, which supports this bill, Self-Help, which has put a lot of effort and effort into making Ukraine move towards energy independence: please don't lose the opportunity to now vote on this bill, get 226 votes and move on. Because we constantly have questions of a political nature when we go out on a very important and important bill. So, Oleg Valeriyovich, I am addressing you as the head of a faction that has consistently been and sustained energy efficiency, the energy independence of the state, the voting of this bill, the support and the opportunity to move forward. I would like to emphasize once again that we have a set of bills waiting for the heads of the OSBB today, 26,000 OSBBs, which bring together more than 40,000 houses in Ukraine, the administration. The people who are addressing us, and today I'm just meeting with the All-Ukrainian Association of OSB Heads, who have asked to contact the National Deputies from this rostrum to enable them to implement energy-efficient measures. And they totally don't understand why, just when the Supreme Council has come up, so to speak, to certain events -- this is about the second reading of the laws -- we have a situation in Parliament where we don't find 226 votes. So once again, I would like to point out that today is a very important part of the bill in terms of energy efficiency. I address all the heads of factions, I turn to all majors, I turn to all those who protect and support Ukrainian families in reducing energy consumption. Please, let's get together, and let's take a very important step: we're going to vote on this bill. We're now in the voting phase, we can't help but support him. It's going to throw us off again that we won't be able to take energy-efficient measures in the inter-heating season. So again, thank you to all concerned deputies for a powerful step. We hope that directly the steps that have been taken so far, and this vote in the first reading of all the bills, have already been positive. The European Union, our partners have appreciated that Ukraine is going to reform and reduce Ukrainian families' energy reductions. consumption of energy resources, and I'd like us to continue this step and this route together in this session room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u55	Thank you. My colleagues, once again, I urge everyone to come into the hall and please invite the deputies into the hall. Colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, I'll get it. Colleagues, come on. Who else has a wish to speak, I will give my word. But I'm very convincingly asking the factions to invite MPs into the hall. We don't have enough people in the room right now to make decisions. Come on, I'll give it to you. Dombrovski is a minute. The first one asked for Lyszko. Oleg Lazko is a minute. Then Dombrowski is a minute. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u56	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I am addressing representatives of the parliamentary majority: the BPP factions and the People's Front. We have registered a draft decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the NCREKP, requiring the annulment of the Order on the imposition of payment for counters. I ask you to put this ruling 6279 to a vote, to adopt it. The Radical Party faction will be able to unlock the rostrum, take up jobs, and vote. In particular, I would like to thank the distinguished colleagues of the Fatherland faction who, together with us in the local councils, are initiating a decision: to call on the government, to call on the President to stop the looting policy they are pursuing. I am glad that, despite our petty political contradictions when it comes to protecting Ukraine from the looting of power, we and our respected natives have united our efforts. I call on all political forces together.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u57	Dombrowski, please, 1 minute. And, colleagues, invite a colleague into the hall, please, everyone. Please, Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u58	My dear colleagues, unfortunately, after the vote in the House of Auditors, I must say that we do self-demeanor with our own hands. And we ourselves are killing the political Supreme Council as the highest parliamentary body. And so, unfortunately, this situation that we have right now in this room can just break the vote on a key bill that people have been waiting for for many years to minimize tariffs and reduce salaries. So I'd like to ask you to either put it to a presidential vote or maybe think about how not to lose this bill for the third time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u59	My colleagues, as far as I can tell, are all supporting this bill. Yeah? Come on, guys, I'm going to do the ratings now, see what's the potential, and we're going to call people, we're going to invite people. So the situation is very simple, you just have to invite people who were just in the hall. We just had a vote of 300. Colleagues, I now announce a rating vote on the draft Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act, 4941. I'm asking you to focus. Just on the basis of a rating vote. I'm asking you to take up jobs. If we don't have enough votes, we'll call the other deputies. So please participate in the rating vote in support of draft Law 4941. Please vote. Please take part in the vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:25:02]] For-189 Please, Sergey Sobolev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u60	Thank you. Sobolje, Fatherland. Mr. Vice Prime Minister! Honorable Parliamentary Colleagues! Why didn't the Fatherland faction vote for that decision? We think there's one louse that allows billions of dollars to be spent entirely on inefficient energy audits. If we change from voice to voice as you like, and we include three categories of buildings where there will be an energy audit. First, these are new structures that are being introduced. Second, these are the new buildings or any buildings that are being built, for example, the financial assistance of international institutions. Third, these are so - called municipal and state buildings above 250 square feet [250 sq m]. Yeah, well, if we record that the energy audits of these buildings are only done if they get budget or international funding to improve energy audits, we're willing to support it in this way. There will be no other choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u61	Who will comment? Olena Babak? Let's have both Helen Babak and Mr. Hennaday. First of all, Olena Babak. Turn on the microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u62	Dear colleagues! The point is that the bill provides for the construction of buildings with mandatory certification. And it is written in article 7, that if public support is provided, then certification will be paid for the budget. I mean, if people in a multi-room house today are using the Energy Efficiency Fund, the Heat Loan Program, they get a certificate after they upgrade their house that confirms the efficiency of using budget funds. And this certificate is paid off by the fund or by the program. No, this is about municipal budgets being financed by the corresponding budgets. Appropriately, because it's, well, because they're not going to get the money through the fund. The Fund will finance mainly housing, housing, and housing. And municipal communities have to be financed at their own expense, but in case.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u63	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u64	Dear colleagues! For municipal buildings, hospitals, schools, and so on, certification is mandatory only in cases where the building is undergoing reconstruction, again to confirm the efficiency of budget use. If the hospital is being upgraded, show that it is effective, give confirmation through a certificate. This is the logic of the changes that have been proposed. But now the first reading, let's talk to the second one, let's take the first step, and we'll take this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u65	Thank you. Please, Hennaday Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u66	Sergei Vladislavovich, your logic is quite clear: in order not to spend too much money on energy audits of Logic, it's very simple: billions of dollars are spent on energy efficient measures today, but it's impossible to see which situation has changed and how the recommendations have been implemented. Thus, this is directly done by introducing energy audits to ensure that not only those who own buildings, municipalities, but also those who implement them, and those who make recommendations, are specifically responsible. Because this law also places responsibility on energy auditors. And so directly, I absolutely support your logic that we are today obliged to conduct an energy audit to see that it is only where public funds are used or municipal funds are used. Compulsory factors are simply to conduct an energy audit in order to place and save money for the branch, and that will not be the case. Mr. Alexi, your colleague was involved in this development. And completely in the first reading, well, we can support this law and then prove again that it's not going to happen. The only thing I have to ask all the national MPs right now is 31 minutes till the end of the day. If we don't see the possibility of continuing work, I would suggest that we give this time 31 minutes of discussion of all the energy efficiency laws at all, and that we end the session at 6 p.m. after the time comes for this bill not to fail. And now we have a very simple situation, because we're practically going to the finish line of the four bills. It's the Commercial Accounting Act, it's the Housing Services Act, it's the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act, the Energy Efficiency Fund Act, which in general gives priority to energy efficiency measures. It is also up to us to have laws on the reform of heat and what should have an impact on the immediate reduction of the strain on the Ukrainian family. There is also a question of support for the Power Market Act, where we are virtually struggling with monopolism. And, you know, there's a certain effect today that even the oblenergo starts to dictate the condition, absolutely not according to the legislation, and not according to the Cabinet of Ministers regulations, but also the monopolists that deal with the frauds. So I think that right now we can, so to speak, spend this time very productively by discussing the laws, by discussing the points that concern the support of our citizens. But once again, it's important that we not only financially support our citizens, we need to support them technically by offering them energy-efficient measures.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u67	Gennady. Mr. Sergey Sobolev, is the committee's response acceptable to you or not? Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, let's let everyone know that this is an open game, not some underside, underground game. We support the first position that all of the new buildings that are being introduced should be undergoing automatic energy audits, and there are no questions. The other one. If FSBs or any other mergers want to receive funds, such as international organisations or budgetary organizations, they are also obliged to be energy-audited. Now for the third position. There cannot be a mandatory energy audit of all municipal and state institutions on the sole basis that they are more than 250 square feet [250 sq m]. And only if the budget has funds or international organizations that want to finance it for the future, then the energy audits of municipal and state institutions are carried out. Period. This is a crucial moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u69	I am now asking very much both the head of the committee, and the vice-premier or the proposal that Sergey Sobolev made may be suggested that we include it in the first reading. That depends on the votes, so I'm asking you very much. The first is Olena Babak. Sergei, listen carefully, please, if it is correctly formulated.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u70	Dear colleagues! Frankly, it is not clear at this point because the bill states that only those municipal and state buildings go to mandatory audits that envision reconstruction. But if everyone now understands the transcript, this is about this language in addition, I think that in order for us to adopt this bill in the first place, we are ready to accept all the recommendations that will now be heard. In order to move from place to place, let us go to these compromises for the general idea of running, in fact, energy efficiency and keeping pace with zero-consuming buildings. We're backing it up. Come on! How else? Let's do something!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u71	Mr. Sergei, if you don't mind, I'll put it to the vote. Igor, Igor! With the offer made by Sergey Sobolev under the transcript. You said it clearly enough, didn't you? Colleagues, now I'm going to put this bill on the ranking vote on the basis of the amendment that Sergey Sobolev made under the transcript. Colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Please take up jobs. An extremely important bill, long gone to him, worked out. Let's focus and support him. And I'm voting for the draft Energy Efficiency Act (4941), which was amended by the People's Deputy Sergey Sobolev. The rating vote. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, let's concentrate and support. Please vote. Rating vote, please support. Vote. [[17:35:15.]] For 215 215. So the Soboljeva amendment gives us a voice. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Now let's move on to the final decision. Please come into the hall. Now let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking everyone who's in the towers in the cafeteria to come up and take their jobs. I ask the heads of factions to mobilize as much as possible and invite MPs. So, are your colleagues ready? Is everyone in the room? I'll wait. So, colleagues, please, come in for more deputies, please. Let's focus, please. And I'm voting on the draft Energy Efficiency Act of Buildings (No. 4941, MP) with an amendment that was made by national deputy Sergei Sobolev under the transcript, with technical legal rights on the ground. Colleagues, just on the ground. I ask you to concentrate and please support me, colleagues. I vote on the basis of 4941. Let's focus, please. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be careful! Each voice has a weight. Vote. [[17:37:18]] For 244 Decision taken. Thank you to all the national deputies who took responsibility, and to the Radical Party who voted. Colleagues, we have the next draft of the law, where we have a huge number of rights. We won't be able to see it. At the same time, we have a number of important decisions regarding the holding of parliamentary hearings that Spiowakovsky has asked for. I think in the time we have left, we can do it completely. I'm asking you to turn on the mic for Singerowski. Let him name the most important decision. Please give me a call. Alexander Volodymyrovich, tell us which of the decisions that follow the order of the day is most important. And I'd like everyone to stay put. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u72	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! We have a very important regulation of 6117 on equalizing the level of scholarships for young scientists, the most talented scientists in order to align them with the scholarships given by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine. 6117. That's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u73	Colleagues, associations, I can count on everyone to stay put, and we? No, we can't vote right away, but I'm asking you to stay put right now. And I'm going to look at the draft Amendment Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's name scholarships to higher education students on the increase in the number of named scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 6117. Yes, Mr. Alexander? I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure, please. Please be supportive. [[17:39:23]] For-162 I invite you to report to the First Vice - Chief of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u74	The honourable head, the honourable people's deputies, we see that in fact the country has lost human capital over the last twenty years. Therefore, the allocation of funds to our young students, scientists who will shape our country’s future, is very important. Since January 1, 2017, there has been an increase in the size of all types of academic scholarships. There has been a situation where the amount of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's name scholarship for students of higher education institutions III-IV has been increased by only 100 dollars more than the size of the corresponding minimum academic scholarship and less than the size of the higher academic scholarship and the named scholarships of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine. If the Supreme Council respects itself, we ask that we support a draft decision in which we give 1,800 dollars a month for the I-II level of accreditation, it's like the President's and the Kabmin's. And for high school students, the third-iv level is 2,300 bracelets per month. Dear colleagues! I would also like to take a decision in general, taking into account the following amendment under the transcript, paragraph two of the decrees to supplement the second paragraph with the following content: "The payment of the Supreme Council's name scholarships in the size envisaged by this decision has been effected since 1 January 2017." Thus, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will pay a scholarship to young scientists and students at the same rate as paid by the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please support! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u75	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Chubarov. Eutushka, please. Eutushka?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u76	Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko of the Fatherland faction. Pass the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u77	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u78	Dear colleagues! We cannot fail to vote in favour of this decree. Friends, the scholarship that is now being paid is equal to a simple scholarship to a simple student. For special reasons, for outstanding knowledge, the Supreme Council's name scholarship. She should be as worthy as a cabinet scholarship as a presidential scholarship. We can't stop voting! It's just going to be humiliating for the Supreme Council. Please just vote and support, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u79	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. It's a really non-conflict decision and it just needs to be mobilized so that we can accept it. Please invite all the deputies to the hall, prepare for the decision. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite deputies to the Hall and ask the factions to invite deputies to the Chamber for a decision. So, colleagues, can we move on to making a decision? Please vote. I'm voting on a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on the establishment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's nominee scholarships to higher education students on the increase in the number of named scholarships to the Supreme Council of Ukraine (No.6117) on the basis of and in general with technical and legal rights. Colleagues, please vote, please support young people, students. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote carefully, each voice has a weight. [[17:43:56]] For 199 We'll wait, we'll invite. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, please don't distract the deputies from voting. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, please invite the deputies into the hall. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote, colleagues. So, colleagues, please. Colleagues, please, I'll be back in a moment. Please, we're taking up jobs. Colleagues, please, I'm asking you to come to work. Colleagues, just when there was a bill on energy efficiency all seated in their seats, so now I'm asking everyone to take their seats. I will sit and wait until the conversation is over. I'll wait. We can vote, yes. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft regulation 6117. Please vote and please support. Please note that each voice is relevant. Please return to 6117. Please vote, please support. We vote return to 6117. [[17:46:32]] For 219 219. Six votes. We'll wait. We'll wait for six votes. Please invite MPs into the hall, heads of factions. Please, Oksana Bilozer, one minute. And I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. Please, Oksana Bilozer, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u80	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, it is clear that the end of the day is clear that it has been difficult for us to work today, and this decision is not just about scholarships and not about the value of those scholarships, but about this determination on the faith of our young generation in the Ukrainian state. They will come after us to this hall and the results of our work will be to build a new Ukraine. So I urge you now to mobilize your efforts and vote in favour of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u81	Please, Oleg Easy, one minute. And please invite the deputies to the hall, colleagues. As long as the performances go, I'll give it to you. And now to you, Mr. Ivan. We're waiting for the deputies. Please, on the subject of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u82	Easy, Radical Party. Dear colleague Bilozer! When you campaign to vote on Parliament, prepare your faction, half of which is not in the room. And we don't need to be accosted, we support all the decisions that help young people. But let’s also think about the parents of this young person, whom you, through counters, through tariffs, rob by making corrupt decisions. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's why we're asking you to vote in Parliament for a decision, to resign from the NCRECR, to return to the state property of the gas pipelines stolen from the state, and to cancel the subscriber's salary as a result of the conspiracy of power with the oligarchs. And this will be the best gift you have for young people and for older people and for every Ukrainian. Let us restore the Ukrainians ’ faith that the authorities can not only rob them but also protect them. The Radical Party faction will make you respect, love Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u83	Colleagues, please. I'll give you a word, Barney. But I emphasize, this is our last vote! Don't make politics on students or on children! Don't make politics where it doesn't have to be! Here we simply need to unite and vote. Do not put conflict in the hall when we are close to making a decision. It's wrong and it's not effective. It's Stephen Barna's one minute. And let's move on to making a decision. All right, I'll give you a minute. But, colleagues, don't split up, but vice versa. All right, I'll give all the factions a minute. Please, now. I'm just asking to invite the deputies into the hall. Barna, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u84	Fellows, I'm addressing everyone again: let's not turn into populism and political pyars our work. There are urgent laws that apply to our citizens. And you have to vote for them. And this bill, as before, I emphasize to my colleagues in the Radical Party that neither tariffs nor counters nor gas are involved. Because it seems to me that my colleagues in the Radical Party will only calm down if the counter is attached to the cow and the villa. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go without the political pianist. We are voting for the laws that the state needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u85	Please, Cream. Cream, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, I ask you all to return to your seats and pay attention once again to the plot of this decree. In fact, we support and increase not only scholarships for students in higher education institutions I, II, III, IV levels of accreditation. In fact, today we are giving our young brilliant government sign that the problems of financing the education system, that development and reform in the general secondary education system, that the reforms of vocational education and the belief that we are working on the image of the Ukrainian State are not words, but concrete actions. I would like to remind you that in Ukraine today, there is an International Educational Forum in Kiev that has gathered students from all over Europe. There was a National Reform Board that supported the concept of a new Ukrainian school. Let us support the determination of the Committee on Education and Science, supported by all those in favor of Ukrainian education. Let's use this document, by our vote, let's consolidate the hall and show you an example of Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u87	Please, Oleg Berezuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u88	We need to support students who want something new. These students are now observing how in this state and here in Parliament an oligarchate merges with state institutions and robs people. They're really watching this. The bill is an example of this robbery. Today, however, the oligarchate was involved with Parliament when it failed the House of Accounts, which should control and punish such devices as subscription. And this is also an example for these young people. Let us at least vote today for their scholarships so that they can learn and eventually replace these people who are destroying and despising the Ukrainian institutional state today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u89	One minute Dudenkov from his block, then Krulko, one minute. And in two minutes, we're going to vote. Invite all the deputies to the hall. Please, Dudenkov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u90	Regrettably, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has once again shown the extent to which it is not indifferent to the problems of young people. Regrettably, there is such a situation that actually voting for candidates in the Court of Auditors is more a priority than dealing with youth issues. The opposition bloc will naturally support the bill on the award of scholarships from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, we call upon all the members of the Supreme Council who speak in which language, especially in which language, should speak - read the Rules, we do not violate the Rules as opposed to you - and we call for support for this decision because it concerns the future of Ukraine, our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u91	Ivan Krulko, one minute. And let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking you all to come to the hall. Colleagues, don't leave the hall. Please, Ivan Krulko, one minute. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u92	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I just want to read from the draft decrees that set up these name scholarships here: junior baccalaureate specialist, 1800 bracelets; master, 2,300 bracelets per month. If there were a question of "hotels" here now, there would be hundreds of millions or billions of votes. And what's going on is this question where an ordinary Ukrainian student can get 2300 out of Parliament, the best one, and we're collecting votes on crumbs. Similarly, there is no question of an auditor-in-chief here for the NABU. Because it's inconvenient for him to be an independent candidate! Similarly, this Parliament is unable to choose the House of Accounts because it does not want us to become stronger. And they want the oligarchs to continue to charge here! So that this House will still not be able to control public finances! So, you know, honourable colleagues, let's stop playing politics. At least vote on that decision. And this is what I'm saying, this is going to be the science of Parliament's inability to form a fresh body that, on our behalf, has to control how state finances are spent!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m1.u93	Colleagues! So let's move on to making a decision. Please enter the hall, take your seats. Colleagues! So I'm proposing to go back to the 6117 Project. Colleagues, I ask you to support and vote for the return to the 6117 vote. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. We'll support students and young people. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:55:51]] For 240 We're back. Thank you, everyone. And now I'm putting to the vote a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on the establishment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's nominee scholarships to higher education students on the increase in the number of named scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (No.6117) for the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general with technical and legal remedies. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support 6117 as a whole. [[17:56:38]] For 239. 239 — yes. Decision taken. Alexander Volodymyrovich, that was, I know how important the decision is. By factions, please turn on. The factions. And, dear fellows, we had a difficult day, but we were able to go through those key issues that were meant to be considered and put in order of the day. Tomorrow, I emphasize, we're going to have a youth and sports block, and tomorrow we're going to have a group question, a second question. And that's why I'm asking you to mobilize first thing in the morning so that at 10 a.m. we can start our work day. And now I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And I call tomorrow at 10 a.m., disciplined to come to the session room to continue our work. Thank you. Good-bye!
