ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u1	Colleagues, time taken for recess, are exhausted. I want to remind you that by noon we had voted to move to the draft Social Services Act after lunch. And I'm going to have to ask you to consider it in a simplified manner. And I'd like to point out that we have a transport block coming up. There are a number of issues of inclusion in the agenda of the session. I want to emphasize, not for consideration, but just to be included in the agenda of the day session. And then the question of transport. In order for us to be able to consider transport as much as possible so that we can work effectively, colleagues, we need to get together in the hall and make decisions. So I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the registration at the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Heads of factions and the Secretary of the Supreme Council would like to invite members to the Hall, please. Colleagues, I'd like to address the members of the Transport Committees in particular right now. What if we go into full procedure in an hour right now, we're going to have a hard time dealing with transport. I'm going to the committee to maximize the mobilization of my fellow Members. And I have a question for the hall. Is there any agreement that we should pass through the draft Social Services Act? Do you agree, colleagues? Yes, yes. It's really important for us to vote. Please take up your jobs and prepare to register in the evening session. Colleagues ready for registration? People's deputies please register. Please. [[16:05:35]] 370 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And, dear colleagues, I remind you that we voted for the afternoon after the draft Social Services Act. Today, March 21, is the International Day of Down’s Syndrome. It is also observed that every year, according to the decision of the UN General Assembly and the bill in question, we will be able to honor people with Down syndrome. And so I'm asking everyone to support the committee's proposal and consider the bill in short notice. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. And I would like everyone to support this proposal, colleagues. And I'm voting on the proposal and the summary procedure for the draft Social Services Act (4607). Colleagues, please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. We're voting for a reduced procedure. Please vote. Vote. [[16:07:11]] For-125 We didn't make it. I'll do it again. But please invite the deputies into the hall. I'll put it again, but please ask the deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. Colleagues, I'm going to make another offer. Please take up jobs. Colleagues Ready to Vote? Please take up jobs. And I'm asking everyone to support this, this is a social issue and it's outside the political debate, and it's the general agreement of the hall. So I am voting on the proposal and reviewing the reduced procedure of the draft Social Services Act (number 4607). Please vote and please support. I'd like your support, colleagues. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[16:09:01]] For 133 So, colleagues, I'll put it again, if there are no votes, we're going to have a full discussion. And I'm addressing in this case and the Transportation Committee, which is what we actually understand, if we go into an hourly review, we're stalling. And then on the Conciliation Council, when you're putting a big time where you have a list of questions, you have to understand that if there's no MPs in the room, we're going to be in the process. So once again, I'm going to make the last proposal for a simplified procedure for the draft Social Services Act. Please vote, please support. Please support, colleagues, we vote. [[16:10:07]] For-142 There is no solution. Let's move on to the full procedure. And I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Social Policy Fedorovich Natalia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Today, Ukraine has a network of facilities and facilities that number about two thousand providers of social services, some three million as they are in difficult living conditions. At the same time, there are legislative and technological problems in providing social services. In particular, an imperfect system of social services administration, inadequate legislation in four conditional social spheres, namely, the elderly, the social protection of children, persons with disabilities and other vulnerable persons, inadequate budgetary planning, insufficient social services, including from the non-state sector. The draft Social Services Act provides for the adoption of a new version of the Social Services Act, as well as amendments to eight Ukrainian legislative acts. The bill proposes to define a single terminology and approach in the organization of work for any target group, the main orientations of public policy in the area of social services, rights and responsibilities of holders, the task of social service providers, the mechanism for ensuring the principle of voluntary choice and transparency in the provision of social services, monitoring compliance by providers of established criteria for their activities, the basis for identifying persons, families in need of social services, the authorization of local self-government bodies and local public administrations, the single order of provision of social services, the new classification of social services, new approaches to paying social services, based on the income of the individual, and not on the availability of persons who can help. The bill proposes to involve non-state providers in the provision of social services through social services through the identification of needs for services, competition among providers, contract with the winners of competitions and compensation for the cost of social services to their providers. The adoption of the bill will ensure an increase in the number of social services providers through the involvement of non-state organizations, targetedness, accessibility and openness in the provision of social services and the satisfaction of every citizen, decentralization of the social services sector, which will help to reform local self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u3	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum, three minutes is a question to the reporter. Please record the question to the reporter. Please, Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u4	I have a question for the representative of the Ministry of Social Policy. Please tell us in the current version of the Ukrainian Social Services Act are social services, psychological services, socio-pedagogical, socio-medical, socio-economic, legal, informational services, why are all these services excluded from the current Ukrainian law? That's the first question. And the second question. There are also rules on the conditions and arrangements for the placement of senior citizens into fixed conditions and the establishment of other social protection facilities. Why do you exclude these important standards from existing legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u5	Can I answer your questions? Can I answer that? The terms of placement of persons in social institutions are proposed by means of regulations. In principle, it's a mechanism, it's not a rule of law. So we suggest that they be defined in the positions that will govern the functioning of one or the other institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u6	Thank you. Please, Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u7	Good afternoon! Of course, a bill on social services should be considered today. We also know that today is a special-needed day for children, and a representative of the Down Syndrome Association has asked for the support of the bill. But you want to ask a ministry representative, do you think that if the average monthly income of a family member is 2.5 thousand dollars, that's enough not to ask for free social services? So for 25,000 bracelets, can you provide yourself with current prices? That is why we propose to consider the bill. But immediately put real prices and real figures into it so as not to make things worse for those who are still suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u8	We are certainly not interested in any way in making the social protection of any of the social groups in Ukraine that need this social assistance.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u9	Thank you. And the last question, Spore Ivan Dmitrovich, Peter Dusty Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u10	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. I think we're all going to support this bill together, because it's extremely important, especially today. But along with that question, was there really no monitoring of compliance with these criteria of children, no definition of persons, and so forth? That must have been it. But the main thing is, please tell me, what percentage of increasing social services will be according to the new bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u11	Of course, the number of social services provided will always depend on the possibilities of a specific budget. But we anticipate the establishment of certain minimum guarantees, a certain set of guaranteed compulsory social services.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u12	Thank you, Natalia Volodymyrna. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Veterans, members of the fighting activities of Burbak Maksim Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u13	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on Veterans, Actors of War, Counter-Terrorism and Persons with Disabilities reviewed the bill of registration number 4607 at its meeting on June 1, 2016. As has already been said, the bill proposes the adoption of a new version of the Social Services Act and amendments to the eight laws of Ukraine in order to improve existing legislation in the area of social services. These include improving the administration of social services, expanding the powers of local executives and local self-government bodies to provide social services, creating an open register of providers and recipients of social services, and establishing new approaches to social services, taking into account the income of the person, not the presence of relatives and loved ones. The committee agrees with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate on the need for drafting the bill and believes that all comments made can be taken into account in the drafting of the bill for second reading. Committee decision: As a result of the first reading, the bill is adopted as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u14	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum. Three minutes is a question. Please record the question to the co-rapporteur. Mr. Andriy Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u15	I give the word to Victor Valeriusz Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u16	Questions. The word for the talk will be later.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u17	The Radical Party faction insists that the issue of minimum social standards in the country today is one of the most pressing issues for the development of our economy. We're proposing an initiative to raise the minimum wage to 5,000 dollars from October 1, 2017. We're proposing a mechanism where this can be done without further borrowing from the International Monetary Fund: on the basis of internal economic reserves. We propose how to do this by overcoming customs smuggling, de-offshoring the economy, increasing the control of transfer pricing, which will allow more than 50 billion dollars to be added to the government budget, which should be directed first to raise minimum wages and pensions in Ukraine. How do you feel about this offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u18	Thank you for such a meaningful question. I can tell you that the People's Front faction, working on a profile committee, has always supported all initiatives to raise social standards in our country. Thank you to your representatives on our committee. We're ready to work on the first and second readings. If you have any suggestions, you will be willing to consider them when this bill is being drafted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u19	Thank you. Please ask questions on the substance of the bill. The performance will then be able to do the faction. Now Kiral Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u20	Thank you. I have a simple question. I generally, and the faction approves the movement towards man-centredness, to improve the quality of social services. And I have a question of the following character as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Whether the draft of the bill also included resolutions of the Council of Europe, especially in the part of social services, especially in respect of children’s rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u21	Thank you for asking. In drafting this bill (I want to remind you that it's government) we had a lot of observations when we went through our committee, so we made decisions about making it only on the first reading so that we could harmonize with European legislation between the first and the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u22	Thank you. Question time's up. There will be factions from the factions, from the deputies. And now I'm asking you to record the factions. Please record. Sverke Grigory Aronovich of the Block of Peter Dust.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u23	Please pass the word to John Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u24	Passes the word to Sporish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u25	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I think Bill 4607 is waiting for the whole of Ukraine. First of all, these children are waiting for us today on the balcony, from all parts of our country. And I think it's really going to make their lives easier. We know perfectly well that among the 420 born with Down syndrome. Of the new births, one child is born with Down syndrome, and we understand very well that these children are our solar children, and they must be as full as any other. Thus, today is a symbolic day for the adoption of this document, for Ukraine, along with the whole world, is celebrating the International Day of Down’s Syndrome. I think it's not just this category of society that comes into play, that virtually all defenseless levels of society and those who need help get easier access to quality social services. In particular, this includes increasing the skills of social workers, increasing the prestige of such work, allowing volunteers to be involved, which has not been introduced. The financing and work of social centres are being reformed, and social protection responsibilities and responsibilities are more clearly prescribed. So we see here a complex approach, a ground-based approach. And this will be a document that really needs to be supported to help these least protected groups, our children with Down syndrome and other defenseless ones. The Peter Prashenko bloc is urging everyone today to vote in favour of such defenseless children. So I think we should unanimously, unanimously accept it as a foundation and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u26	Thank you, Mr. Ivan. Please, from the Self-Help faction, Roman Semenach passes the word to Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u27	The self-help faction will support this bill, but only in the first reading. The bill contains new texts of the Ukrainian Social Services Act, which improve the Ukrainian law. It is the social care of citizens who have partially or completely lost their ability to self - care and who need constant foreign assistance that is provided directly at home or in an appropriate institution: in a residential home, in a local social service center, in a veteran’s home, in a nursing home, in a nursing home, or in another institution that provides social services where they live, is temporary or permanent. This is a novelty of the bill. The bill also gives additional powers to state administrations, which are obliged to adhere to public policies in the field of social services for persons, their families under difficult living conditions, and their need for foreign assistance in accordance with legislation. The bill also defines the term "minimum basic social services complex". But the text does not say what kind of social services will be included in the mandatory minimum basic social services package. So the Self-Help faction will insist on amendments and work on this bill in a second reading to make it very clear at the level of law that we define the minimum basic social services and the list of requirements for social institutions that provide such services. Because the bill proposes that this should be passed on to the level of legislation. So we can essentially allow the Ministry of Social Policy to manually regulate the volume and quality of social services. So I think that's going to be important amendments before this bill is redrafted for second reading. I also point out that this bill should have a return to the standards that apply to the conditions and arrangements for the placement of senior citizens in health care institutions and the establishment of other conditions of employment in social protection institutions. The Self-Help Unit will vote in favour of the bill. But we insist on his substantive work of second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u28	Thank you. Please, Natalia Royal of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u29	Dear colleagues! Of course, a new Social Services Act is needed. But we need to understand that the new law should in no way be worse than the previous one. It must be more qualitative and responsive to the new needs of people. We must also be aware in this room that this bill concerns the social protection of more than three million people in our country. Above all, it concerns single pensioners, veterans, people who need the greatest attention and protection of the State. The bill is unfortunately far from perfect. There is a need for a large number of changes and amendments. And the faction of the Opposition Block is ready to support it only on first reading. I want to address the room immediately, that it is in no way acceptable today as a whole, because it will not work, and it will not provide that quality protection to the people. To prepare it in reduced mode, we call for a room and call on it to be finalized as quickly as possible to take into account the real needs of people today, because this bill proposes a new approach to the definition of “human need”. And if earlier, and today, account is taken of the conditions in which a person is living, the existence of relatives and loved ones, then it is proposed to take on material things as a basis. On the one hand, this may be the right approach. But the bill believes that if a person has an income of about 2.5,000 bracelets, he is already completely self-sufficient and can solve his own problems. Well, think about it, a pensioner, a person with special needs, mostly lying people who can't handle themselves if he has an income of 2.5 thousand bracelets, the State will have to deny him on the basis of this bill. We believe that this is extremely unfair. Therefore, the bill, when adopted on first reading, will have to be seriously finalized. We also believe that, unfortunately, this bill does not today provide for criteria for what approaches to decision-making, nor is the mechanism for evaluating social services balanced today. Let us therefore vote in favour of first reading and understand that our duty and duty today to offer and provide the highest quality services to people, because it is in principle impossible to survive the pension that retirees receive today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u30	Thank you. This is about voting in the first reading. But I would like to turn to the speakers, from this high rostrum, to ask them to speak in the national language. Thank you. And please, from the Radical Party, National Deputy Halasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u31	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear colleagues! One of the biggest challenges for our nation today is not only military aggression, it is an extremely low level of income for Ukrainian citizens. Because of the shock of gross and negative economic trends, the average available income of a person in a currency equivalent today is $120 a month. Tell me, how can corruption be overcome in a country where the average income after taxes is $120 a month, and how can a person live on it? Today the level of savings in Ukraine is 3 percent, while in the Czech Republic it is twice as high, in Germany it is three times higher, in Sweden it is five times higher. So people don't have a penny to put on a black day and spend everything until the last penny. Moreover, nearly 40 percent of Ukrainian income is spent on food, while Europeans spend only 13 percent on food. In fact, because of this situation, we are repressing our own economy and imposing sanctions on it. Because when a person is able to pay just a little bit for their basic needs, all the other sectors of the economy and production that produce all the goods, clothes, medicines and everything else, they go down. This is an artificial reduction in the Ukrainian economy, which increases dependence on the International Monetary Fund of other foreign creditors. 70 percent of the economy is shaped by the consumer basket. consumer demand for households. So when people make money, they spend this money, the economy increases when they don't make money, the economy goes down like it does today. Moreover, dear colleagues, notice the price of energy in Ukraine, the price of materials in Ukraine, the price of European equipment, and what do we not have in Europe? The wages, which were not indexed, did not increase, and if the faction of the Radical Party with the same minds and with the support of the government did not choose 3,200, there would be nothing at all. So this needs to be developed and we need to conclude that if 3.5 million Ukrainians today get an extra salary, the economy starts to grow, over a million budgeters. The Radical Party faction has just introduced to Parliament a bill to raise the minimum wage in Ukraine from October to 5,000 dollars, and we have proposed a specific anti-crisis plan for economic development that will ensure this. Not at the expense of the IMF, but at the expense of overcoming customs smuggling, at the expense of covering offshore schemes, at the expense of increasing the control of transfer pricing, i.e. taking funds where they're being buried, and where they're being washed, not by ordinary people, and paying people their wages, then the economy will work, and we'll have a real one.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we thank you for your statement, but at the same time, I have as chairman to draw the attention of all those present to the next one, which in the course of the discussion is desirable to take a position on the bill under discussion. And I would like to thank the factions of Self-Help, BPT and others who were speaking out of the bill, not in general. Colleagues, there's this vision, there's this vision, I'm the presiding officer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleague, pay is a very big subject when we discuss the 5,000 dollar bill, we will discuss the question of pay. As presiding officer, I have the right to draw the attention of all my colleagues to the Rules. Now, according to the Rules, there are scoundrels from the national deputies of Ukraine. Whether I want to discuss this or whether I now have an appeal to a faction who wants to discuss it. Look, we still have a big roadblock in our daytime. Perhaps we should vote in favour of this bill now without discussion? Okay. There is a desire to discuss. From the deputies, please, we have now 15 minutes, from the deputies, I ask you to sign up and abide by the Rules, speak in the national language and the question under discussion. Bill 4607, this is the Social Services Act. Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Wolf. Six minutes, the Wolf and the Cuprienne, and she'll be speaking. Social services, please, Mr. Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u33	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. In general, I am surprised by the reaction of Parliament Speaker Irina Herashchenko when my distinguished colleague Victor Halasyuk comes out to this high parliamentary rostrum, informs Ukrainian citizens that we are fighting to raise wages, to overcome poverty, so that Ukrainian families do not need to receive social services, the chairman criticizes us for this. And we have to look at in Parliament. Here in Parliament, what laws should we consider? Aren't they what people are waiting for? Are not laws that will enable poverty to be overcome? So I would ask you not to teach us mind and mind, we know what we're doing, and we know our mission, our program of the Radical Party team. It's overcoming poverty, it's creating jobs for Ukrainians, it's supporting a national producer, it's protecting our own country. There the children are standing at the top of the Ninja, from the Borodjanka, ask their parents about their work and how much they earn at that job. People's pretenses of poverty pay cash wages, then put people on a social service needle, a grant needle, a grant needle, and housing-communal subsidies. We don't need your drug doses, subsidies and subsidies! Give people a decent job and a decent salary, and support the national producer! That is why the Radical Party faction proposed an anti-crisis plan of action aimed at supporting and developing national production. You go around the world for loans, humiliating the Ukrainian nation. In exchange for these loans, you raise your retirement age, you sell land, you bring foreigners here as overseers over Ukraine. Do you know what to do? It's not about collecting credit, it's about making money, it's about changing the National Bank's monetary policy, it's about giving the national manufacturer cheap long credit resources and creating conditions for Ukrainians to work. What the government does is they make a commitment to take out the forest round. They'd take themselves out unprocessed or processed -- no matter what, and don't touch the forest round. By the way, I want to inform you today is World Forest Day. And our task is to have both the forest and the earth and the water and the cow and the people and everything that lives in Ukraine. And you want to turn Ukraine into a colony where peasants will be out of work, where all people will be sitting on your services and subsidies instead of making normal money. So I demand, our team requires a radical change in economic policy. We have to be a self-sufficient state, we have to change economic and monetary policy, give cheap credit resources and sell our products. President Prashenko has to lobby abroad not for Roschen's confetti, not to sell Turboat and Ukrainian land, but to lobby abroad for the interests of a national producer so that everyone, everyone, I stress, who works in Ukraine can sell their products. To this end, we have breached in Parliament the adoption of the Law on State Export-Import Agency, so that every national producer who wants to go out with their products abroad can get support from the State, so that more currency can come to Ukraine, so that there can be more jobs in Ukraine, so that more wages can be paid to Ukrainians, so that more opportunities can be offered to Ukrainian peasants and farmers to make more pensions available to Ukrainian pensioners, and so that the peaceful sky can be over our heads! That's the way politics is supposed to be! What do you want instead? You want to tear the country apart, you want to sell the land, you want to land our native Ukrainian peasants, and you want Ukraine to walk through life with its arms stretched out like a beggar and as a harvester. You can talk here, you can turn off the microphone, you can take us out of words, but you won't rip out the Ukrainian heart, you won't rip out our love for Ukraine, you won't take away our desire to fight for the Ukrainian people, for the Ukrainian destiny. The Ukrainian destiny in our hands, not in the hands of foreigners, is that Ukrainian people have a job and a salary so that our children who are standing on that balcony, when they graduate from school, will have the opportunity to study in the village and get a job, not to go abroad to the mountains behind the Europeans and not to see their families and their parents. That's why I demand of you, the Compradorian authorities, the compadres of Ukraine and the authorities that condemn Ukraine to poverty: don't stand in front of us, because we'll take it and move on!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u34	At the request of colleagues from the "Block of Peter Prashenko" faction, such as Irina Lucenko, Vladislav Doub and others, I am forced as chairman to read article 36 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, "Victures to Speech at the Planned Meeting of the Supreme Council." First. It's number one. Dear colleagues, experts in the Rules from a very radical faction. Article 36, page 35, paragraph 1: "The speaker must speak only on the matter from which he was given the word and to observe the length of time." And speaking to our honored guests, the children of Ninja. In your geography class, talk about geography, not mathematics, but don’t take an example from some of the speakers in Parliament. Thank you. Mrs. Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, Irina Heratchenko actually sounded what I wanted to focus your attention on. Dear friends, there are children of the sun waiting for us today, not the general phrases, not the whispers, not the use of their diagnosis for "sacrifice" and the humiliation of other members of Parliament, but the actual actions. Such children are 15,000. Parents today, giving a briefing with us, asked us: “Children looking at us today have done their part. The Supreme Council, they made their laws; one of these laws was a simple statement: "All must work." So let's not bla-bla-blah, let's not populism, but let's do specific, simple things for the children of the sun: live a normal life, get normal services, and feel like real citizens, wanted, and worthy, and loving. Thank you. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u36	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy of the People's Front, please. Out of place, out of place. The People's Deputy of Kryvoshia from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u37	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Well, first of all, I want to say again: the People's Front faction will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Secondly: I would like, in principle, to have everyone pay attention to the things that the representative of the ministry has been talking about today, the deputy minister, in particular the issues that relate to decentralization and the powers that will be passed on to the local authorities. Why am I focusing on this? Today, in principle, there are a lot of powers in this area: care, maintenance and provision for the children concerned are at the disposal of local authorities, particularly district administrations. So, at the same time, I would like to draw attention to this: when preparing the draft for second reading, we need to write out a clear mandate for the local authorities and accumulate them in conjunction with how this is going to be regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers. You shouldn't cross these powers, that's the first. Secondly, we need to understand what kind of financial security will come from the state budget, but, at the same time, we need to understand what the collateral will be from the local budget. Today, we all understand well, local authorities have an average of 35 to 40 percent more income. And that's why we need to understand that their task is not just, excuse me, to steal money, but their task is to invest that money in such, including children, to ensure their social protection. It's not just the authority of the Supreme Council or the Cabinet of Ministers, it's the task of every civil servant, in front of every social worker. And that's why this is our shared task. I think that this initiative should definitely be supported in Parliament, and I would ask for this initiative and my comments when considering the bill for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u38	Thank you. My colleagues, I very much ask you to speak more concisely right now so that we can move faster to making a decision. And now I give you my word. Sergey's fishing is passing it on to Halasyuk Victor. Please, Mr. Victor. And I very much ask you on the subject of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Mrs. Irina, don't shut us down. You better stand up for State initiatives to protect the moratorium on the export of roundwood from Ukraine to Europe. Better defend the interests of Ukrainian industry, employers and taxpayers, because in any country that respects itself, the authorities live on the basis of taxes paid by industry and businesses, not by IMF loans. So we need to learn this in civilized countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u40	Mr. Victor, I'm asking for a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u41	It's different. Secondly, we today urge the authorities to lift economic sanctions from their own country. Because today, when the share of wages in the industry is less than 9 percent and the share of wages abroad is 30 percent in Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u42	Mr. Victor, I ask with respect the great one. With great respect, Mr. Victore, on the subject of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u43	That's what it means. Please do not interrupt, for this is the subject of this bill! [[B in m in s a l in]] A share of the cost of living in Ukraine is less than 10 percent. In Europe, this is more than 30 percent. So if someone's going to deal with secondary issues today that don't solve this problem to "scarve" someone's eyes, we're not going to let that happen. Because we are proposing real radical changes in the country that will allow us to raise the well-being of citizens who will allow us to put a Ukrainian entrepreneur and an industrialist at the centre of the country to have a sovereign democracy. As you say in slogans, let's do it in practice. So the Radical Party faction proposes to raise the minimum wage to 5,000 dollars. In particular, on the basis of which sources, I emphasize that this is more stringent control over transfer pricing. Our experts estimated it to be more than 10 billion dollars a year. Expanding the list of countries that are subject to transfer pricing and expansion of controlled transactions. It's a matter of restructuring the internal debt. Today, Nazbank holds government securities that pay nearly 40 billion dollars a year to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u44	Mr. Victor, I ask you to speak again under this law. Mr. Victor!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u45	We propose restructuring, it will release 20 billion dollars in the budget to raise wages, social standards in Ukraine. And finally, smuggling. Who doesn't know how a forest rounder travels across the border by smuggling? Who doesn't know how Ukraine loses? Look at the difference in the trade balance between us and our partners. There's a lot of accounting, a lot of smuggling. Over 20 to 30 billion dollars a year can be obtained through the introduction of new scanners, through a new risk analysis system, by overcoming the hand factor that is today. Then you won't have to choose your own citizens and borrow from the IMF. Then the Ukrainians will live in Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, I want to address the entire hall. We are discussing the subject of Down’s International Day. I think it's disrespectful when we call these questions minor. I try to have the utmost respect for all those who speak. I try not to interrupt during the performance. But this is a clear and direct rule of the Rules. I emphasize the direct and clear rule of the Rules. During the discussion of the bill, only to speak on the subject of the bill. I'm asking you not to provoke conflict in the hall. I want to warn you right now, we're gonna turn off the microphone when it's off-topic, colleagues. This should start sometime, and we should treat each other with respect. I would like to emphasize, one to the other with respect. I'm asking you, colleagues, and I urge everyone to abide by this standard. And we have huge blocks of questions, important blocks of questions. Let's finish up faster where there's general support and move on to transport issues. Now, this is the last speech that will be discussed, and then we'll move on to the vote. That's why I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. I ask the heads of factions and factions to invite deputies to the hall. And to the last performance of Spores Ivan Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u47	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! Unfortunately, today's Social Bill 4607 has moved into pyar action. It is very hurtful that we today should consider the matter of making life easier for children with Down’s syndrome. And today we say, God knows why to please the people of Ukraine! Well, it shouldn't be. We're not talking about energy supply in this bill, we're not talking about agriculture. We have to say everything to make these children's lives easier and easier. So I very much ask, honourable national MPs, let's really talk essentially, let's talk through the bill! Let's talk about improving the lives of these kids, not piranhas. It's very important. And I think today we're going to put the whole room together and we're going to take the social bill 4607 as a basis. Because it's a very important bill and it's coming up with all the kids with Down syndrome in Ukraine, and not just these kids and other kids who really need social protection. So I ask everyone to unite and vote unanimously in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u48	Please, colleagues, the discussion is over. Please come into the hall. Please come into the hall for a minute. Doesn't anyone object to a representative from the IDP "Equal Opportunities", one minute prepared by this bill? There's no objection. Please, Alona Babak, one minute. There'll be a vote in a minute. Please enter the Chamber. Please, Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u49	Dear National Deputies! Thank you very much for being able to make a small, small speech now from the "Equal Opportunities" interfractional MPs. Today, you know that the support of IFOs has taken steps to mark World Day people with Down syndrome. And we received such a request from representatives of the community. I'm asking you all to pay attention. They said, "Please find in those laws that you adopt, as the Social Services Act or other, a place for sports rehabilitation institutions that the state would support." To enable children with Down’s syndrome to have special opportunities and needs for sports and rehabilitation. An example is that a child with Down’s syndrome is denied gymnastics because they say: “Who will take care of your child needs special care. As a state, as national deputies, we must find a place for such sports rehabilitation facilities and secure them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u50	Please, 10 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u51	became a part of our society. And we ask our colleagues not to take the time from these children to discuss any disputes or other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u52	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I ask all national deputies to take up jobs and prepare for the vote. Please. I am voting on the draft Social Services Act (No.4607) on the basis of a committee proposal. All the adjustments that have been made, we can work on the second reading. So, 4607 on a base, please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! Please vote. Vote! [[16:54:55]] For 296 Decision taken. And, colleagues, now they're asking for a simplified procedure for consideration of second reading. So I'm putting to the vote the proposal to shorten the deadline for submission of proposals and amendments to the second reading. Please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! [[16:55:27]] For 272 Decision taken. Colleagues, now according to the order of the day, we have seven, if I'm not mistaken, issues of inclusion in the agenda of the day session, just inclusion. It's not until a minute after each bill. I'm asking everyone to stay at work, they're all in the daytime, everyone had a chance to get to know each other. For five minutes, let us go through questions that we have not included in the general discussion, and now there are suggestions to include it in the agenda of the day session. The first is 6161. This is a draft law amending Chapter VI of the Budget Code for Ukraine (for the implementation of midterm budgetary planning). This is a proposal from the Budget Committee. They are urging us to include the day’s session in the order of the day. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. 6161 votes. Please be supportive. [[16:56:39]] For 238. Decision taken. Next up is 6192. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2017 (to clarify certain provisions). People's deputy Krivenka's project, also proposals from the budget committee. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. We've included all the bills in the agenda. 6192, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[16:57:19]] For 225 Once again, the drafter was not present. Colleagues, and please concentrate, and I'm putting 6192 into the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:57:52]] For 214 No votes. 6099. We'll all go through, then we'll talk. 6099: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Protection of the Rights of Domestic Farmers. National MP Krishna's project, the proposal to include in the agenda, the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. 6099. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Let me remind you, we've included all the bills. Please support, vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote, please support 6099. [[16:58:41]] For 278 Decision taken. The following is 6210, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to clarify certain provisions and eliminate contradictions arising from the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Improvement of Investment Climate in Ukraine. Also suggested by the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of Southern Nina Petrovna. 6210. Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. [[16:59:26]] For 233 Decision taken. Next: 6116, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act to ensure the right to higher education for persons whose residence is temporarily occupied by Ukraine. National Deputy Spiowakovsky’s project and a proposal from the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. 6116. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Vote. [[17:00:12]] For 248 Decision taken. And 6117: The Ukraine Supreme Council Ordinance on the Establishment of Name Scholarships for the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Higher Education Students on the Increase in Name Scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is also a project by the National MP of Spiowakovsky and at the suggestion of the Committee on Science and Education. Colleagues, please vote, please support, please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. [[17:00:59]] For 256 Decision taken. And 6111: The draft Decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United States Congress on Security Safeguards. Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Hopeko Hanna Mikolayovna Please vote, please support. 611, please stand by. [[17:01:33]] For 242 Decision taken. And, colleagues, the only bill that we didn't support was one vote, 6192, which is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Budget for Ukraine for 2017 (to clarify certain provisions). The People's Deputy Krivenka's Project, it wasn't actually in the Hall, I'm asking you to concentrate and vote, colleagues. Please take your seats, colleagues, and I ask you to vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Just in order of the day session, colleagues, I'll remind you we included all the bills, all the ones that sounded in the hall. Please vote, please support, inclusion in the agenda of the 6192 session. Please vote this last vote in this chapter, please support, vote, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[17:02:39]] For 202 202, what's going on? Krivenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u53	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Good afternoon, everyone! Dear colleagues, this is a bill that corrects the situation, a terrible situation that has happened to us today in providing the army with technology. The State Budget Act for this year does not provide for the repayment of the body under those State guarantees, on those loans issued last year to purchase military equipment for the needs of our army. And so far, without changing these regulations, the Ministry of Defense can't take this technology on its own. Appropriately, the equipment that is being repaired at repair plants and the equipment that is being repaired at our defense companies cannot reach the army. This is agreed with the Treasury, and this is agreed with the Ministry of Defense, with the Ministry of Finance. So this is a technical regulation that's not going to work, this safeguards rule, so last year, we didn't give anything for the special confiscation. It's not going to work, and we're not going to put technology on the balance sheet without this technical regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u54	Colleagues, this is a matter of security. I'm asking everyone to focus. I would like to point out to you that I can place the inclusion in the agenda of the day session as much as I consider necessary, not limited by the Rules. I'll do it again, I ask everyone to concentrate and prepare for the vote. And I'm proposing to include in the agenda of the day's session a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Budget for Ukraine for 2017 (for the clarification of certain provisions) of National Deputy Krivenka, 6192. Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote, please support. [[17:04:46]] For 214 There's not enough votes, we'll put them on again. And colleagues, let's move on to. I have applications for what factions? There's a statement about a break from two factions: the People's Front and the Radical Party faction. But they're ready to take a break. Who's speaking? Please, Sergey Pashinsky, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u55	First of all, I'm not even talking to the national MPs, I'm talking to all the patriots, all the people who are looking at us right now. Friends, last year we failed to execute a state defense order. He was not executed because the money for this state defense order was to come from the money confiscated from Yanukovich. In this room the villains and corrupters, who most of them are shouting about their patriotism, have broken this law. In this year, in the first quarter of order to carry out the POPs and to put military technology into the army, and we're talking about hundreds of tanks, artillery systems, BMWs and BTRs, we're on our way to state guarantees and lending companies to state banks. Today, this program is in operation, and the first technique is ready to be transferred to the army. But in the face of a lack of agreement in the current legislation on the transfer of this technology, minor adjustments agreed between Minfin and Treasury need to be made. And what do we see in this room? Real patriots don't vote! Of course, why do we need tanks? We've won, we've blocked! The war is over! Nobody died yesterday. People are good, but do you really think that if we don't arm our army, Putin will forget about us? People are good, but don’t think about your paid corruption victories, but think about your state. I ask everyone once again to put this law to the vote and to support it. Thank you for your attention. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u56	Thank you. Colleagues, at the request of two factions, I'll put it again. And I emphasize that I don't have any limitations on how many times I have to put the day session in order. But please take your seats now and get ready for the vote. At the request of two factions, I will put it, but I ask you to prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, I'm putting in the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2017 (for the clarification of certain provisions), the People's Deputy Krivenka from the Budget Committee (6192), just to be included in the agenda of the day session. If only all the bills had been included. Please vote, please support. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[17:08:08]] For-183 The decision is not taken. And let's move on to the transport block. I ask you to prepare yourself for consideration: a transport block. And so the first question we have is the question of the second reading. And we're moving on to the transport block. First, the draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine’s Code of Merchandise Navigation (to promote the development of shipping in Ukraine) is announced. It's a second reading, it doesn't need a different procedure. And I invite the head of the Dubnevic Transport Committee, Jaroslav Vasilovich, to report. Please, Jaroslav Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u57	Good afternoon, honourable chairman, distinguished national MPs. The Committee considered at its meeting on 8 February 2017 the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Commercial Navigation (for the promotion of shipping in Ukraine) (registration number 2712) from 23.04.2015 and the proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies to it. The bill received five comments and proposals from law enforcement entities, two of which were rejected and three taken into account at the committee meeting. The committee has prepared a comparative table for the second reading given to the National Deputies. Taking into account the presentation and outcome of the discussion at the meeting, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Merchant Shipping (for the promotion of shipping in Ukraine) (Registration No. 2712) as of 23.04.2015, to be adopted on second reading and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u58	Thank you. Please, there are only a few amendments, and therefore I ask the national deputies not to disperse, to prepare the amendment authors immediately. 3rd, Eutusek. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u59	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I, Mr. Chairman, would like to ask you not to put my amendment in place for confirmation, because it is counted. But now I want to thank all the members of the Transport Committee for taking these two very important amendments into account, because there was a rhetoric in the Hall that other states, namely the aggressor states, could use to bring our ships into our rivers, our seawaters. So I want to say thank you, and part 3 of article 32 put it this way: "The right to navigation under the flag of Ukraine has a ship that is a state or municipal property or is owned by a citizen of Ukraine, a natural person - an entrepreneur, a legal person who is registered in Ukraine or a vessel that is in the contract of a berybout charterer, except for vessels owned by the citizens of the aggressor state." For confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u60	Don't you insist on voting? Okay. Four. Vadaturski. Turn on the microphone, Vadaturski.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u61	Dear colleagues and presiding officer! I ask you to understand the difference between launching foreign investments and free access to the offshore flag. For investments in any sector, we need: first, the expected profits; second, the protection of the sector from offshors; and third, stability. This bill allows foreigners to invest, but we're cleaning up protection in the form of permits. The ships under a foreign flag are now requesting this permission from the Ministry. It gives three days for the Ukrainian vessel to intercept the application. If there is no ship under the Ukrainian flag, the cargo will be received under a foreign vessel. The entire procedure lasts 10 days. In the last three years, there has been no refusal to grant permission. Today, permission does not prohibit a foreign fleet, but it gives the Ukrainian carrier only three advantages. Is that a lot? If the Ministry wants to be more effective, let it look at Sweden, where the procedure lasts 48.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u62	Please comment, Mr. Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u63	30 seconds. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u64	In Sweden, the procedure takes 48 hours, not 7 days. It's a matter of bylaws. Permission is not an obstacle, it will not solve the problem. Support my article 131 revision 4 or support the Main Legal Office for re-reading the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u65	Comment, Mr. Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u66	On the committee, we considered the amendment of the Vadaturian People’s Deputy, and this amendment was rejected. With regard to the proposal of the Vadaturian People’s Deputy, it is proposed that there should be a standard of acceptance in the Ministry to allow the transport of goods. But after all, we're always talking about deregulation, we're talking about openness, and yet it's suggested to leave manual control as a permit. Please, if the author insists, we can place on confirmation of this amendment, which was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u67	Thank you. Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u68	Vadaturski, do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u69	Do you insist on voting? Yeah? So I'm putting to the vote the fourth amendment of the Vadatoursky People's Deputy, who was rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[17:14:53]] For 113 The decision is not made. Five o'clock, Solvar. Don't insist. And the last amendment, colleagues. There will be a vote in a minute, so I ask all the national deputies to come to the hall and prepare for a decision. This is the final amendment, Logwinsky. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u70	Dear friends, I would like to say that this is a very important amendment. But I wanted to edit it in the context of what was pointed out as not being distributed to ships flying under a flag other than vessels owned by the aggressor state. It's right to add, "citizens or owners are legal persons." So to add the words "legal person," that's the first. And second of all, I'd like to make an extra offer. That the stated standard is not distributed to ports in the occupied territory. It’s important to emphasize! That's why I'm asking for a transcript. I propose that article 131 (second reading) should be supplemented by the following: "The position of part one of this article does not apply to the transport between the ports of Ukraine, which are in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine." This will still allow a temporary limitation on the marked possibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u71	Please, Mr. Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u72	On behalf of the committee, I support the sound correction by George Logwinsky. And I would also like to ask the people's deputies to vote on the bill in the second reading and in general, taking into account the amendments made by George Logwinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u73	Thank you. So the discussion is over. I ask everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs and prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to invite a fellow MP into the hall. Turn on the microphone yet Dubnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u74	Dear fellow national MPs! The basic, basic, basic proposal that has been made in this bill to enable investment in the maritime field to be possible for new ships to be built. And so the ships would go under the Ukrainian flag. The main change proposed by the bill is that not only the natural person of Ukraine or the company of Ukrainian citizens, but that the natural person is a non-resident entrepreneur, and in particular the owners of Ukrainian companies, the non-residents have the opportunity to build ships in Ukraine and walk under the Ukrainian flag. This is the basic, basic norm of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u75	Let's go to the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Code of Trade Navigation of Ukraine (for the promotion of the development of shipping in Ukraine) with an amendment that was made under the transcript by the Logwinsky deputy, in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:18:56]] For 209 I can either go back, or I can put the second right away. Let me do it again. Colleagues, come to the hall, invite the deputies to the hall. Please show by factions. Show the voting factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'll wait 30 seconds. I'd like to invite the deputies to the hall. As the MPs enter, he is Minister of Infrastructure Vladimir Omelyan. Turn on the microphone, please. And invite the deputies to the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u76	Thank you, Mr. Head. High-ranking national MPs, a huge request to support this one of the three key laws that will allow for the liberalisation of the river, to create competition, to increase freight traffic through Ukrainian waterways from 7 million tonnes per year, as it is now, to 30-35 million tonnes. We only need three laws to have a completely different river transport sector. It's up to you. A great request to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u77	Thank you. The discussion is over. We're going to the vote now, colleagues. Ready to vote? I'll make an offer to return to the vote first. And I'm asking you to focus as much as possible. And I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote for the proposal of a committee of the draft Act amending the Code of Trade Navigation of Ukraine (2712). Please vote, please support. Please vote. Vote. [[17:21:10]] For 218. 218 votes, 8 votes. Colleagues, the offer for the second will be supported? Again. Okay. Once again, I see the MPs are here. Colleagues, please concentrate. The law is very short, there is no second reading, there is nothing to do with the bill. It's just to focus in the hall. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. So once again, I'm putting the vote back on the table. So, colleagues, they're getting ready. I would like to stress that under the Rules I can return to the vote, and this is unlimited, it is provided for. I'll do it again. Everyone concentrate, and I propose to go back to the draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Trade Navigation of Ukraine (number 2712). Please vote for the return. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Vote! If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Both the minister and the committee support. [[17:22:55]] For 230 We're back. Colleagues, I am now introducing the draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Trade Navigation of Ukraine (2712) in the second reading and in general with the amendment made by the Logwinsky. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, let the political consultations be concluded. So I put it in sequence. First, I put the 2712 Committee's proposal in the second reading. Colleagues, please prepare, please prepare. At first, I place an amendment that was made by the representative of Logwinsky under the transcript, with this amendment 2712 in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, second reading, and in general, as corrected by the Logwinsky. Vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:24:20]] For 222 And, colleagues, I now place the second reading of Law 2712 on re-reading. Please support me, please vote second reading 2712 again. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote, colleagues, re-read. Please concentrate so we don't lose the bill. [[17:24:48]] For 263 Decision taken. Next is a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation to bring them into line with European Union legislation on the transport of dangerous goods (4644). And I invite you to report to the head of the Dublin Transport Committee, Jaroslav Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u78	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislation on bringing them into line with European Union legislation on the transport of dangerous goods (registration number 4644), submitted since 11.05. In 2016, adopted on 17.01.2017 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, prepared by the Committee for Second Reading. The bill is designed to bring dangerous goods into line with European Union legislation. Implementation into national legislation of the EU Directive 2008 and the requirements of Ukraine's international treaties. In preparing the bill for second reading, 38 suggestions and amendments were made to the comparative table. As a result of the consideration of the proposals received at the Transport Committee meeting of 08.02.2017, 27 proposals were included, part of one proposal was taken into account, and 10 proposals were rejected. Taking into account the above terms and definitions, as well as the rights and obligations of dangerous goods transporters identified in the bill correspond to the specified agreements. By a decision of the Transport Committee of 08.02.2017, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was recommended to adopt the draft Law (Registration No. 4644) on second reading and in general. A comparative table is agreed with the Editorial Department of the General Documentary Administration and the General Legal Office. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u79	Thank you. Colleagues, we're moving on to the amendments. Please, 2 amendments to the People's Deputies of Sphenov. He insists. Please turn on Mr. Spin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u80	Dear colleagues! I insist on this amendment, it is only technical and legal. Targeted at eliminating judgements, possible abuses, it provides a clear qualification for the characteristics of dangerous goods in the first and third classes of danger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u81	Please, I am putting to the vote amendment number two, which is urged by the National MP of Sphenov. Please vote. [[17:27:51]] For-138 138 deputies, you haven't been corrected. 3rd National MP of Sphenov. Are you insisting? Please, Mr. Spin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, I will again insist on this amendment. This amendment aims to eliminate estimates that may lead to abuse. What other actions may be carried out with goods other than transportation, dispatch and receipt. Do not make the law absurd, please, I insist on this amendment and ask it to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u83	Please, 3 amendments to the insistence of the People's Deputies of Sphenov will be put to the vote, please vote. [[17:28:43]] For 115 115 deputies supported her, you didn't get your amendment. Next to the 4th People's Deputy of Ostapchuk. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u84	Please give my word to my colleague Kulinich, he's co-author of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u85	Please, Kulinich, who is the co-author of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u86	Thank you. I insist on the right. What's the point of editing? The project is proposed to include in the definition of "transport of dangerous goods" that this activity involves sending and receiving dangerous goods. This would mean that licenses for the transport of dangerous goods would have to be obtained by ordinary buyers and sellers who do not carry them. Worldwide, the license is obtained for transport and includes loading and unloading operations. And this is in no way relevant to shippers or cargo recipients. If the amendment is not confirmed, I call on the agrarians not to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u87	Amendment 4 of the People’s Deputies of Kulinić and Ostapčuk is based on their insistence on voting. [[17:30:06]] For-138 Next amendment to People's Deputies No. 5. You insist. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, any cargo may be used for terrorist purposes if desired. It was therefore necessary to delete the vague wording from the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u89	Please vote in favour of the insistence of People's MP Sphenov for this amendment number 5. [[17:30:47.]] For 111 People's deputies, please. Only 111 supported this amendment. It's not supported by the hall. 6th, Dmitri, do you insist on 6th Amendment? You insist. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, I would like to withdraw all my amendments in the future because the Hall does not support them. All these amendments were intended solely for the exclusion of corruption. Unfortunately, "not in time" is the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u91	Heard your position. So you're not insisting on the 6th, you're canceling it. On the 8th you do not insist, Your Honor's colleague Sphenov. Let's move on. 12th, don't insist. 13th, Spanov. Don't insist. 15th, having withdrawn his amendment, the National MP of Sphenov. 16th, having withdrawn his amendment, the National MP of Sphenov. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, the amendments to this have come to an end. We're about to go to the vote. I would like all the MPs to return to the session room so that we can now vote in favour of the bill that we are considering. I'm asking the National Deputies to return to the session room. One minute, I'm going to let the people's deputy Dubnewich present this bill from the committee. Please, Mr. Dubnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, all the amendments have been considered on the committee, and according to the rules laid down in the European Directive, we have done our utmost to have the bill comply with directive 208. And I'm asking you to support this bill, it's highly awaited by Ukrainian carriers who can't carry dangerous goods. Anything else that sounds like there's something counted or not counted, it's already the right of every national MP to discuss. I ask your support, because by supporting this bill, we will allow the European Directive to work and bring our legislation closer to European Union legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u93	Thank you. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. We have concluded our discussion and are moving on to making a decision. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall and take jobs. So let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation to bring them into line with European Union legislation on the transport of dangerous goods (No. 4644) as proposed by the Second Committee and as a whole. Please vote. Please support 4644. Please vote. [[17:34:43]] For a hundred and I'll bet the next one: return to the committee for further work. Please invite the girls into the hall. Please tell me it will be supported. So I am now voting on the proposal: to re-read the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation to bring them into line with European Union legislation on the transport of dangerous goods (4644) for re-second reading. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, concentrate so we don't lose the bill. For the second reading again. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. Another reading. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:35:49]] For 202 There are no more options for voting. Draft Law 4644 has been rejected. Next. Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Roads Act on Roads, No. 4647. Very few right-handers, so please stay in the workplace. The report invites the head of the Dublin Transport Committee, Jaroslav Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u94	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed a bill amending the Ukrainian Roads Act on Roads of Defence (Registration No. 4647) from 11.05. In 2016, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which was adopted on the first reading by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 14 January 2017. In preparing the bill for the second reading of the Transport Committee, he maintained six proposals from the right-holders of the legislative initiative, which were submitted to the established Comparative Table and considered by the committee at its meeting. Five suggestions are taken into account by the committee, and proposal No. 6 is rejected. Article 5-1 of the bill was proposed to supplement the rule that the requirements for the technical and transport and operational status of road defences are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in agreement with the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in relation to the following. The reason for the deviation. The bill, adopted in the first part of article 5/1 of the 4th reading, stipulates that the procedure for the use of defensive roadways, its technical cover - up arrangements, and the list of defensive roadways are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Therefore, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the General Staff of Ukraine, which is part of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in accordance with the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act, will take part in the adoption of this order by the Cabinet of Ministers. By Decision of the Transport Committee of 8.02 p.m. In 18 the Supreme Council of Ukraine was recommended to adopt the draft law (registration number 4647) on second reading and in general. Please support the adoption of Bill No. 4647 as a second reading and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u95	Thank you. Colleagues, we only have one readout. So we're going to have a very quick vote. And I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. And I'm going to the right. Only one amendment of the People’s Deputy Winnick has been rejected. National MP Vinnik, is he insisting on the right? No, it doesn't. In fact, all the other adjustments are included. And we can move on to making a decision. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Yes, it's Kabmin's law. As long as the MPs are in the hall. Please, Minister. Turn on the microphone, one minute. And please invite the deputies to the hall. One minute, Vladimir Omelyan. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u96	Thank you, Mr. Head. The great national MPs, the great request to support this bill, to vote it, because it really has a key role to play on the defensive routes. And this will simplify all procedures to increase the security of the state and the needs of our army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u97	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Roads Act on Roads of Defence Means (number 4647) as proposed by the Committee, second reading and as a whole. Please vote. Please support 4647 in the second reading and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:40:28]] For 214 I'll bet on my return, colleagues. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I'll be back in a minute. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall and take up jobs. Please. So can I put it on the way back? Colleagues, have they all taken jobs? Please be prepared. And I'm proposing to go back to voting for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Automobiles Act No. 4647. Please support the return to the vote. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:41:56]] For 227 We're back, colleagues. Now I ask everyone to take up their jobs. Please come into the hall. Please be prepared. Why don't you go to the hall and see who's in the towers? And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Roads Act on Roads of Defense (number 4647) in the second reading and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, please vote for everyone. Each voice has a weight. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:42:49]] For 224 Colleagues, I'll put it again, only I'm asking you to be more careful when voting. I see some MPs just talking on the phone and leaving when they vote. Please take up jobs. I'm putting 4647 on the return again. Please support the return of 4647. Please vote on the defensive road. Please be supportive. Vote 4647, come back. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[17:43:40]] For 229 And now I'm putting draft Law 4647 in second reading and in general. Everyone please take up their jobs. These are defensive roads, colleagues, friends! Please support 4647 in second reading and in general. Please vote, please support 4647 in second reading and in general. Vote, fellows! Vote! [[17:44:23]] For 231 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Next draft of the National Civil Aviation Safety Program Law (4046a). And that's also the law in the second reading, the bill. And I invite the head of the Dubnevic Transport Committee, Jaroslav Vasilovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u98	Mr. Chairman, honourable members of the people, first of all, I would like to thank you for supporting the previous defense road bill. Thank you all for supporting this bill. And now we're going to go to another important bill, which on January 17th of this year was the draft of the Act on the National Civil Aviation Safety Program (registration number 4046a), introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. As a result of the first reading, the Supreme Council was adopted on the basis of January 17 of this year. During his preparation for the second reading, 53 amendments were made to the committee from 7 entities of the legislative initiative, which were included in the formed and comparative table and discussed at the February 22, 2017, meeting. The committee was supported, 37 amendments were taken into account, 2 were taken into account and 14 amendments were rejected. The comparative table for the bill is agreed in the editorial department of the Chief Documentary Administration and in the Chief Legal Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine without any notice and given to you, honourable national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u99	So, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u100	In addition, a number of technical and legal clarifications were introduced to the text of the bill. In accordance with part seven of article 120 of the Rules, I propose that the following amendment be made. To supplement paragraph 58, paragraph 2, of section VII after the words “a carrier is obliged to provide the State border authority and the authorities of revenue and assembly” with the words “and the principal authority in the state-wide system of combating terrorism”. Please be supportive. As a result of the discussion, the committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the bill 4046a was adopted on second reading and in general, taking into account the proposed amendment. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u101	Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on to the amendment discussion. So 1-a, Solvar. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. Four o'clock, Dove. Is it insisting? No, it's not. 6th, Goose. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u102	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! The Opposition Block will support this bill on second reading, because the security of the people for us is more than anything, and the previous Civil Aviation Security Program was adopted in 2003. Over the past 14 years, there have been many changes in both civil aviation and safety requirements and in the means to ensure this security, and that is why there is a need for a new program. With regard to this amendment, it allows you to concentrate on the responsibility for safety, so please put it to the vote and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u103	Thank you. Will you comment, Mr. Jaroslav? So who. I'm betting on the vote of amendment number six of National Deputy Gusak, her committee has been rejected. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[17:48:48]] For-140. The decision is not made. 7th, Dove. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 8th, Dove. Don't insist. 9th, Dove. Don't insist. 13th, Dove. Don't insist. 14th, Rosenblatt. Is it insisting? Rosenblatt doesn't insist. The next amendment, which was rejected because in fact almost all of the amendments the committee supported and they entered the body of the table. The next one that is rejected is the 33 amendment, National MP Gusak, 33 amendment, do you insist? No, don't insist, okay. Then the amendments are taken into account and only one more amendment 44 is not included, yet Gusak insists? No, it doesn't. And so, colleagues, we have all the amendments taken into account, the discussion is over, and we can move on to the decision-making process. I ask the National Deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And now for one minute, Minister Vladimir Omelyan, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u104	Thank you, Mr. Head! In fact, this law is important not only in the context that it enhances aviation security, but also in the context that we're going to be going through ICAO audits. And this will be one of those parameters that will determine Ukraine's suitability and its companies to fly both inside the state and on international flights. Therefore, a great request is made to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u105	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, Please take up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Law on the National Aviation Safety Program, Civil Aviation Number 4046a, proposed by the Committee on second reading and in general. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support Vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[17:51:37]] For 243 Decision taken. The law is passed. Colleagues, the next we have is the chapter "First Reading," and I think we'll still be able to look at one law from the first reading if we work quickly and efficiently. This is the draft Law on Inland Water Transport (2475a). And I'm asking you to support the consideration of this bill by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, please support us to be able to look at it quickly and efficiently by the end of our working day. [[17:52:16]] For 178. I'm just putting it forward, and I've moved on for 15 minutes. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Kozir Boris Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u106	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Citizens of Ukraine! Today, we have no exaggeration to start strategic reform on Ukraine's inland waterways. The absence of a legislative business base on inland waterways has led to the river becoming expensive and the investment conditions being opaque and unclear. In the 1990s, Ukraine carried 60 million tons of cargo in the rivers, and in 2016 it was only 6. For example, in 2016, the United States carried 630 million tons, the Netherlands 360 tons, and our neighbor Romania 30 million tons. Therefore, the need to develop and adopt documents that regulate the work on the rivers of Ukraine is due time. Bill 2475a is called upon to bring an end to the lawlessness that has been on the inland waterway for 25 years. The rules that govern the law will bring back to the Ukrainian rivers the former glory of the State’s transport arteries. The law is revolutionary in its sphere, it contains more than 30 innovations aimed at substantially simplifying business conditions on the river, as well as reducing the costs of shipowners. The law cancels a series of payments, assemblies, and permits, cancels the payout, cancels the cost of passing the bridges, provides for private investment in strategic river infrastructure objects, using the compensation mechanism. And the main thing is that we're opening up a river for ships under foreign flags, for example, how the Ukrainian sky is open to airlines in the world today, or the road for foreign road transport. All of this will make internal routes competitive in the freight market. Law 2475a was discussed in the Ministry of Infrastructure, in the European Business Association, in the American Chamber of Commerce, in the Association of the Rivers of Ukraine and in other professional institutions where it received positive feedback and support for the bill in the first reading. The bill also supported business, as evidenced by letters that came to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u107	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u108	I should also point out that on 2 November 2016, the Transport Committee, in the order of part five of article 44 of the Ukrainian Law on the Committees of the Supreme Council, at its meeting, reviewed and supported the proposals made to the Committee concerning the limitation of the size of the river congregation and its terms of action. It was one of the key requirements of business. I propose that this proposal be discussed when preparing the bill for second reading. Colleagues, the effect of ordermaking will be felt by all Ukrainian citizens, since the law does not only apply to the establishment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u109	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u110	The rivers of Ukraine should become a source of budget fulfillment. Could Ukraine benefit from this? This will depend on our decision with you. Colleagues, please support Bill 2475a as drafted.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u111	Please! Colleagues, 10 seconds. Say the resolution part.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u112	I'm calling the Self-Help faction. During the discussion of the bill, you were asked to have funds from the river congregation not at the expense of the administration but at the central budget. I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u113	Well. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u114	I suggest we write this down: "The size and order of payment of the river congregation is established by law. Ukraine’s river waterway administrations are financed by the National Budget of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u115	Thank you, colleagues. I'm asking a lot of questions, because the proponents of the law, by taking time, we're just reducing the chances of its adoption. Please, Head of the Transport Committee Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich. Very short, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u116	The honourable chairman, the distinguished national deputies, is the main purpose of the bill in developing inland waterway transport. The voyage will be free for non-military vessels and under any flag in accordance with Ukraine's international multilateral or bilateral shipping agreements. The bill aims to systematically regulate shipping on inland waterways, in particular the bill states: sources of financing for inland water transport infrastructure; the legal regime for marine hydrotechnical facilities and water approaches to them. It contains standards for the safety of navigation and the regulation of the movement of vessels. The adoption of the bill will facilitate the introduction of Ukrainian legislation in the field of water transport into European norms and rules. The committee, together with the Ministry of Infrastructure, has worked on the bill by taking into account the comments and suggestions made. The Transport Committee, at its meeting on 02.11.2016, reviewed the bill and decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading to adopt it on the basis of the proposals of the Ukrainian national deputy Kozer Boris Juryovich. Please support this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u117	Colleagues, please sign in for two, two for against, but very concisely, please. It's very concise. Please hold the recording. Wojcietsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u118	Semenhe.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u119	Semenha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u120	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! Of course, the sector of river transport needs development. With its unique potential, Ukraine today has the lowest percentage in the European Union. Today, this is two tenths of a percent in the total freight market. For example, in Romania today, it is 20 percent, and in Bulgaria it is 15 percent. Once the river transport is fully started, the consumer will benefit from the fact that river transport, river transport, is much cheaper than a similar railway or road transport. However, the branch is in critical condition. Let me give you just a few examples. In the country, only 22 percent of the small - scale vessels remain. And part of the separate gateways of Dniper, they'll soon be 70 years old. In fact, this means that we're going to end up using the infrastructure that was inherited from the Soviet Union. However, the bill contradicts the legislation on privatization and on the rental of state and municipal property. Bills do not set out the size of the river congregation and its payment mechanism. The bill proposes the creation of a state monopoly on the administration of waterways. In no way, though, have the agency’s functions been defined or authorized. The key to reforming can be the opening of river waters for ships under a foreign flag. We need to put in place a system of targeted government credit and maybe other market preferences, which will allow Ukrainian companies to invest in the industry. The Self-Help faction stands ready to support the first reading only if the river assembly is established by law and the water route administration is financed exclusively from the state budget of Ukraine. The transfer of the right of the newly created administration to determine the river congregation itself and to finance it at the expense of the industry today is unacceptable. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u121	From "The Fatherland" Evtushok Sergei Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u122	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, perhaps we or most of us remember how good it was when rivers were used in the past. It was less stress on roads, so to speak. But I'm going to say right away that the "Paternity" faction is not going to support this bill. But we have some suggestions. Well, in fact, we want a committee, and maybe even the Ministry of Infrastructure, to create a commission or a working group, where we have a clear inventory, which is what we actually have in the annual fleet, which vessels. I'm talking about what Roman Semenich's self-help colleague just said to me. We do not see what infrastructures have been left out of those distant Soviet times, but which have already been stolen. So we want this to be inventoryd, and then we just want to talk about infrastructure, we want to talk about using waterways. And we're also definitely against having two functions in one hand, both administrative and economic, which means they're going to raise funds, and they're going to use them as well. And finally, what I'm saying is that it's a huge risk when an agency can have the right to use the coastline, to build it. It's also something that we see as some kind of corrupt risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u123	Thank you. From the People's Front to Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u124	Dear colleagues, here we see two speakers who are very good at dealing with agriculture and in rivers and taxes -- in everything, in infrastructure. So I can tell you that this bill was still being submitted to me as Minister of Infrastructure in 2014. In three years, you've never taken a step to do inventory, to see what you have to do, which plus what has been created by the seaports administration, and to accumulate funds to do deeper depths. Is that what you're talking about? Here, the interests of private grain traders are advocated. That's what we need to talk about. You're saying there can't be a state monopoly, but you're talking about spending government loans on carriers. Listen, this is nonsense. Let's put the load back on the rivers because you only stand here for grain traders -- once and for all, truckers who destroy our roads. We won't be able to make them until we open the river until we have an administration of river ports that will accumulate money for the sinking of this river. That's what we need to talk about, not do populism and talk about it. So I ask everyone to support this bill. Let's get the river back to Ukraine to get the goods off the road to Ukraine, because in Dniper it's the cheapest way to get them to export ports. Don't stop the case. We're giving green color to this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u125	Thank you. Colleagues, and the final performance from the Petra Prashenko Block, please. Urban, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u126	Dear colleagues! I am very much asking you to support this bill. The whole "Peter Dust Block" faction will support it. I am very grateful to the previous speaker who also supports this bill. I want to give you a few digits. Think about it, just 1 million tons that we're transporting on our land roads, if we move it to the river, it'll save 1 billion dollars to keep our cars going. I think it's a very large amount of money and a lot of money for our state right now in our economic situation. And the cost of shipowners and truckers will be reduced almost three times if this bill is supported. That's why we're showing that this is exactly the support of a business, an active business in our country. I propose to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m1.u127	So, dear colleagues, the discussion is over, I'm asking you to take up jobs, we're moving on to making decisions, colleagues. Please come into the hall and take your seats. I would like to point out that although the draft law is still in place in the first reading, I'm going to put it with this law, which was written by Kozir Boris Yuriovich. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Inland Water Transport (number 2475a) with the amendment that Kosar Boris Juryovich made under the transcript on the basis of the committee's proposal. Based on the base. Please vote, please support, on the basis. Vote, colleagues, please. [[6:06:29]] For 212 Colleagues, I'll put you on the way back, be there, then re-join the committee for work. Colleagues, I'm proposing to return to 2475a, please return to the vote, 2475a. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please be supportive. [[18:07:02]] For 219 Colleagues for re-reading, I ask you to support, to consolidate your colleagues. I ask you to vote 2475a for the re-reading. Please vote, please support 2475a for re-reading the first reading. Please support, we're voting on colleagues not to lose the bill, we're voting. [[18:07:34]] For 224 I, my colleagues, am the subject of a legislative initiative for further development. Colleagues, please concentrate. Please gather now in the hall of all those who are propitators of this bill. I'm going to put the subject of the legislative initiative to work, please vote, please support. Please, 2475 a subject of the legislative initiative for further processing, please vote, please support. Voting colleagues, please support. Please vote. Let's focus, colleagues, so we don't lose the bill, please support everyone. [[18:08:18]] For 231 Decision taken. On this positive note. Dear friends, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. We've gone through two thematic blocks. It is not easy, but we have been able to make many important decisions. And tomorrow at 10 a.m., I ask everyone to come to the hall to continue our work, not as simple as it is necessary for the Fatherland. Thank you.
