ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u1	Good morning! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Colleagues, can we register? Please take up jobs. I'd like you to sign up. [[10:03:42]] 369 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the national deputy Taras Ivanovich Batenka. Taras Ivanovich, welcome to your birthday. [[Applause]] Colleagues, I want to inform you that on June 12-17, me and the national deputies were in Washington on a business visit. During the visit, the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ukrainian Parliament and the United States Congress was signed. I want to thank all the people's deputies, especially the members of the United States Friendship Group, the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs for preparing the memorandum. And I am confident that this memorandum will lead to a new level of cooperation between the Ukrainian Parliament and Congress. It is very important that the memorandum states that Ukraine is a forpost to Western civilization in the protection of Europe from the Russian Federation. This is a memorandum, colleagues, and I welcome you all with an important step in the inter-parliamentary cooperation between Ukraine and the United States of America, a colleague. [[Applause]] I'd also like to report that a statement has been made for a recess from the two factions of Peter Prashenko and the People's Front. But both factions agreed that instead of a break, they agreed to speak from the rostrum. Who will act? Jurassic, yes. Please welcome Oksana Jurinec to the rostrum. Good afternoon, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, respected Ukrainians, but above all my native Levites, would not want to hear the voice of the desert from this high rostrum from the highest body of Ukraine claim that Lviv is actually dying today. From a central European city, it is transformed into a stinking garbage dump, and worse, into an ecologically dangerous place. Because when the air temperature stops. Crossing the highest marks is a threat to the health of our city’s inhabitants. First of all, I'd like to address the Self-Help factions. I say again, in unity, our strength. And we need to save not Andrew Ivanovich, but the inhabitants and guests of Lviv from the garbage. Mr. Sadowy, you've been able to solve this garbage problem for three cases. But even the tragedy at the Gribovic garbage dump, when people died last year, did not push you to do so. This is because garbage disposal was one of your main pre-election promises, let alone your direct duty as city manager and as a 30th article of the Law on Local Self - Rule. When I'm in my house, and I have every opportunity to do that, I clean up my own garbage. As most conscious people, I think a few figures are very loud. A year after the tragedy in Gribovich, the Lviv City Council spent 350 million on garbage transport, wherever possible, across Ukraine. This is because the government has allocated 14 courses for this in the Lviv region. However, the Levite authorities chose not to take advantage of them. You could get drunk before there's no money. But it was only in the last month that 150 million were deposited. And at the same time, the uneasy debt raised in one year is 10 million dollars for disposal. That's what you call solving the problem. Pearce on the garbage topic will lead to nothing. There are episodes in politics where partying and programs are not important, but important feelings of self-esteem for their city. I'm sorry that now the first association with my hometown of Lviv is garbage, it's unpleasant smell, it's idleness, it's idleness and it's impunity. Moreover, if this situation is not resolved now, Lviv will quickly lose its appeal to visitors both in Ukraine and abroad. And these visitors are far from the last source of the local budget. I am in pain for the Levian, for myself, for the representative of this district, for my children, my friends, my colleagues, who have become hostages of this situation. As an MP, as a woman, as a mother, finally as just a Levite, I appeal to you people, to the authority of the city, to stop the persecution of my own interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u3	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u4	And to restore to the city the European status it has gained over the centuries. Andrew Ivanovich, deal with the garbage problem without delay or voluntarily resign. Yes, you can resign because you can't do that. And Oleg Romanovich. I want to stop the shares in Kiev and go to Mikolayev, where his faction doesn't support taking the trash to Mikolayev. Thank you. Never lose the time, opportunity, or words you give to your electorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u5	Colleagues, according to article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes Tuesday for statements by authorized representatives of MPs and groups. I want to remind everyone that the sequence of statements is defined by writing. And I'm asking the factions, the groups, to prepare for the recording of the performance, and I'm asking all the factions to participate in the recording of the performance. Ready? So, colleagues, please record a statement from the tribune of factions and groups. Please. From Rebirth Group Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich is handing over Victor Bondar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u6	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues. In recent months, many discussions have been about the order, so - called, extremely important, popular, and successful reforms offered by the authorities. It's about the medical reform that they're going to do the next day after this reform, so that the whole country will go with the hospital wallets, and they'll have to pay for any service that there's practically no money in the Ukrainian family today. Pension reform, which actually has a single goal, is to reduce the pension deficit and increase retirement age, and increase retirement, work internships to get a pension. This means that virtually most of the population of Ukraine will not live to this pension. The land reform they are proposing to implement, and essentially to sell the land of Ukraine, judicial reform is incomplete and so on. Tell me, who likes it? But nobody likes it, and it's not a good approach. At the same time, our Rebirth Party has said dozens of times that there should be an economy at the top. If the economy goes up, production, industry, then there's going to be costs, and then we're going to be able to solve these issues not at the expense of the population, not at the expense of cost savings, not at the expense of social cuts, but at the expense of creating jobs and giving people decent wages and decent pensions. So why should we support these reforms? We had no motive to support these reforms, and we firmly opposed these reforms, our Rebirth Party and the Rebirth Group in Parliament. At the same time, what did we get? We've had a situation where, in fact, the last month, in all of our parties, the Rebirth Party, there's been a lot of pressure all over Ukraine. Especially in the case of the city of Kharkiv and Kharkiv district, pressure began on the head of the district council of Sergey Czernow, who is threatened by both the administrations, both by the district authorities and by the criminal elements that are now essentially beginning to grow with the authorities, there are threats to video. We're talking to law enforcement agencies, and there's virtually no response, there's no investigation. Pressure is being exerted on members of all levels, and pressure is being exerted on members of the Supreme Council, who are being called, threatened and called for votes in favour of these pseudo-reforms. So we have to say from this rostrum, if this trend continues, we will announce from the rostrum the names of everyone who exerts pressure on our deputies throughout Ukraine and in the Supreme Council. We warn that we will not put any deputies at lunch and that we will take control of every case of pressure that is going on today. So we demand to stop this pressure and we will not vote for such pseudoreforms. This is a situation that repeats itself, and we have seen it before, and nothing good will ever end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u7	Opanasenko Alexander gives the floor to Irina by way of "self-help." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! My mother is 73 years old and lives in a small town near Lviv. And every week, when my mom comes to see me in the business, she brings me a trash bag from my house to her city. And I'm asking, Mom, why are you doing this? And my mom answers me, because it looks like nobody's gonna help you. I want to address the representatives of small towns, towns, villages that are now in the Supreme Council. You may never have problems like those in Lviv before the state shuts down your active ranges. We require the government, the President, the RNB to allocate a reserve range at the time of the construction of the garbage treatment plant immediately, and we also demand that the land be allocated to the state building standards for the new site, not those, so-called, proposals that do not even cost the paper on which they are written. Last week I spoke to the head of the Lviv district administration and asked how they handled those district centers that were taking their garbage to a closed Gribovic garbage dump? And the head of the boat answered, and they normally make deals, and they take their garbage. This is another evidence that there is political manipulation and political pressure not to accept solid household waste just from Lviv. Opposing politics has two consequences: protest and slavery. Like all Ukrainians, the Levites will never again be slaves.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u9	From the faction of "The Father" Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! Such a level of political insanity, when I am ready to drown whole cities in garbage, including UNESCO’s Lviv Memorial, I do not remember in any year of parliamentary representative and legislative authority. Do you want to tell us how Timothy’s questions were resolved when there was no water and water on schedule in Lviv? During the year a government commission was formed, and now Lviv has water constantly because of the direct cooperation of Prime Minister Timoshenko and the mayor of that city. What does Prime Minister Grimesman and President Poshenko do now? What can be called this blasphemy, with which representatives of two factions spoke, even though one was ashamed to go out to the rostrum. Instead of immediately setting up a government and presidential commission and actually declaring Lviv a disaster zone, instead of immediately separating the special ranges, instead of releasing them, then going to the local council and forcing them to terminate these agreements. Not to open criminal cases against those who actually take out trash in Lviv, but to do everything possible to resolve the issue. Now we have some people's heads spinning from polls. That's not what you do! I think that the time of political repression that began in Ukraine is a good memory for those who did not understand Janukovic's lesson. At least what do they understand? They were working in Yanukovich's governments, then they were working with the whole Yanukovich gang, and today they're going to tell us how to work? I think that the political repression that started against the real opposition in Ukraine against Timoshenko against others is an example of how today's government continues its policies. Show me one thing against those who really called for Russian spring in the east and the south. Show me one thing against real separatists. Where is Jura Yenokievsky now walking because the Attorney General has closed all cases against him, specially closed, deliberately closed? Where's Kolobov going now? Today, Kolobov’s deputy head of the government is in office. You'll think about it in your prime minister's office. And you're looking all over the world for Kolobov? I don't think you've learned anything. Those who served Yanukovich changed their colors and are now serving Dust. You'll soon realize that's the way to Titanic. Where Janukovic is today, there'll be your team named after him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u11	From "the will of the people," Petaovka Vasile gives the word Labazuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Last Sunday, all of Ukraine welcomed our doctors with a professional holiday. There was a wave of action in the country, where many good words were spoken. But not even the right words await our medics, and they await decisive action and change for the better. The day before, another updated maternity ward was opened at my home’s Volocsky district hospital. This is not because of public funding, but because of the patronage, the benefactors, who do not side with the problems of their hometown, are rebuilding the city, building the infrastructure for the development of their state. State health policy has not endured any criticism until recently. We all know what led to the attitude of authority toward medicine: broken hospitals, medics on their knees begging, the lack of drugs, and hundreds of thousands of people dying without waiting for help. The People's will MP Group supports the firmness with which the government and the Ministry of Profiles are approaching medical reform today. It's the car that had to be moved out of place a long time ago. That is why our group voted on the basis of the proposed bills. Although these votes were given in advance. We don't really understand the low level of preparation for the first reading. In this regard, our group has developed a number of changes and proposals, and we consider adoption critical to the effectiveness of all reform in general. We demand that our corrections and proposals be taken into account. We see the optimism of the government, which is set to increase funding by 67 billion in 2018. I'd like to see the corresponding calculations in this particular project. At the same time, we support the proposal made by the Health Committee, and we demand that the government urgently resolve the issue of what is called a pay comparison in the field. It's not possible when 3200 is received today. 3200 people get a surgeon and an ambulance. Not only is it unfair for doctors to pay, but the same comparison has been felt for many years by almost every pensioner. That is why we demand that pensions be upgraded. There can be no minimum wage of two and a half minimum pensions, as today. During the days of Nacrad reform, the pension reform project was supported. Unfortunately, despite the government’s promises, the bill was not introduced and registered in the Supreme Council. We insist on introducing pension reform to Parliament as soon as possible so that we can get to know the data and prepare ourselves for consideration, because these reforms depend directly on the future of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u13	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Dunaev is handing the owl to the battle party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! When I talk to the voters in the Poltava, Mikolai and Lugansk regions this week, I can tell you that people have a clear sense that the authorities want to either destroy them or push them out of the country. The good for it is no longer an obstacle. While appreciating the work of parliament and government, we need to move away from the global criteria of gross domestic product, macroeconomic stability, investment in the national economy, social development, inflation. And in this respect, all of these indicators indicate a deep economic crisis. In doing so, we never saw a government report or a crisis program or economic laws. Much of the bills under consideration are secondary and lead to even greater opposition in society. The decision taken by Parliament on NATO's course is no more than a declaration, and it is an attempt to distract citizens from pressing socio-economic problems. What is worthwhile is the absence of botulism - related vaccines. A few years ago, no one thought about it, but only for the simple reason that all vaccines, including baby shots, were available. Now there's no basic protection against epidemics, no one's dealing with these problems. But all were actively involved in discussing the medical and pension reforms that called for healthy and finally driven into the poverty of pensioners. The whole concept of these documents is two simple postulates: how to make a commitment to the IMF, and how much Ukrainians will pay for it. This prepares the sale of the main asset of the Ukrainian State, its land, which is a totally unacceptable and anti-national decision. And the last. We are definitely against the culinary attempts to review the Minsk Accords. Society needs to know about the decision that is being made. We demand that Parliament take direct part in the formulation of decisions relating to the life and security of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u15	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Igor Mosiychuk gives the word Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u16	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Last week, our team worked all over Ukraine. I had important meetings in the labour groups with people in Žitomirščina, Ravenščina, Volina, and Lvivščina. And everywhere at every meeting, whether it's a wood factory or a farm or a bronze factory, people everywhere have raised key questions about how to survive, how to feed their families. That's me before the government planned to raise the minimum wage to 500 dollars next year. Today it's 3,200, and in the 18th year it's 3,700. Let 500 bucks go to the pharmacy and buy a pack of diapers, I don't think that's enough. That's why our team insists that the only real way to overcome poverty, to break out of the crisis, from this swamp of canned, rotten, stinking raw materials is to create jobs for Ukrainians, is to radically raise wages and pensions for people. Instead, what does the authorities offer? So-called reforms: medical, pension, land reform. Read a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, which was published only after the Radical Party team took power as a beggar. Because that's what they've been secretly preparing this memo for. All of these reforms are set out in the memorandum, not for the Ukrainians, but for the implementation of the memorandum, to take a billion-dollar loan and put holes in the budget. Because if these so - called reforms were done for Ukrainians, they would first ask doctors how to carry out medical reform; they would gather unions, employers, and employees and ask how to carry out pension reform in order for people to receive a large pension rather than a large job and a minimum pension. And if they wanted real land reform, they'd gather farmers and support our bill that the Ukrainian farmer should be the Ukrainian farmer, not the transnational latifunds corporations that don't care if there's animals in the village, whether there's jobs, whether there's a social sphere, if there's a key task for them, it's profit, quick profit from the depletion of Ukrainian land and the destruction of Ukrainian villages. So I want to assure the Ukrainians, our team, which is now in power, we're going to stand on the sidelines of Ukrainian citizens. We will not allow so-called reforms that will result in the loss of land, millions of people will not have pensions and health services. Dear Ukrainians, you can rely 100% on me and my iron team!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u17	From Peter Prashenko's Block, the Lubinets of Dmitry passes the word to Irina Lucenko. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! Today, a very strange situation has arisen in the country when the topic of garbage, which one of the most famous of the historic city of mayors carries all over Ukraine. So this garbage topic today has shown a moment of truth. What is this moment of truth? Dear colleagues! When we started our cadence, one of the first reforms we started was the reform of decentralization. What this reform is about. Common form, central authorities perform one function, all authority, and 80 percent of the funds raised in Ukraine go to local budgets. And then the responsibility under these funds also rests on the local budgets. What do we see? In Lviv, the community in democratic elections chose a mayor. 700 million dollars during 2016 are on deposits! The question from the community is, why doesn't Mr. Sadow use this money to do garbage fires, rebuild infrastructure, buy urban transport, repair roads?Oh, my God! Why does he force his deputy to go to bed and starve right when the President left the country? This is called irresponsibility! It's called incompetence. This means that a person cannot carry out his duties! That's why the committee's called the Gardens. Let him tell you how much he's done for the community, with television, show you who he's been talking to, how many times has the committee from the Cabinet of Ministers come, how many times has the garbage been exported in the neighborhoods where the communities are. Self-help representatives did not vote for trash from the city of Lviv to be found in other cities. Believe me, your fellow citizens, the funds in Lviv are enough to bring this historic city from an ecological catastrophe to a thriving tourist center. But for 10 years, Sadowy did only one thing: he was pianist, moralized, and did nothing for the community. And there's a result. He says it's for the president to do that. Sure. But if the President were to deal with this issue, there would not be an army created if the President were to do garbage, there would be no car, there would be no association with the EU, there would be no international coalition holding sanctions and holding Russia back. If the president and the central authority were to carry the trash out of Lviv, and not Mr. Sadowo himself, it wouldn't be started. In the fight against corruption, education reform would not have been initiated, medical reform would not have been initiated, decentralization would not have taken place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u19	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u20	So, dear fellows, let's each have to take responsibility in their workplace, so we're here to gather. We're in charge, you're in charge, the president's doing his job. Mr. Sadov, be good, get to work!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u21	From the People's Front, Corchik Vitaly gives the word to the leader of the Maxim Burbak faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u22	Congratulations, dear colleagues. Last week, the National Security and Defence Committee, together with the press, reviewed the border area of Kharkiv, which was equipped with engineering and technology. Please turn on the video, please. So the only conclusion is that the European Vale project is also being implemented at a high technical level. To all deputies who cannot or do not want to go and see for themselves, you can see it right now and see it from a soft chair in the session room. In particular, I appeal to those who have spread many lies and have urged them not to build borders. See what is done and at what level. This arrangement is only the beginning. In total, it takes 3,000 kilometers, and the average total cost of one kilometer per project is 2.7 million dollars. This is almost 37 times the cost of a wall on the U.S. border with Mexico, to say the least. But the construction of the border has not been fully financed all these years. That's why the People's Front faction calls on the government to allocate all the planned public budget funds. Out of 200 million dollars, only 30 million dollars have been allocated this year. In addition, this year we demand that another 500 million dollars be allocated to the border from the funds that were confiscated in the Janukovich environment and returned to the budget. The need for the engineering of the Ukrainian-Russian border does not call anyone into question, but the deliberate and sustained discredit of the leaders of the People's Front and our political power only confirms that strengthening the borders is an important project to counter the Kremlin's aggressive plans. And today, our neighbours with NATO, the Baltic States and Norway started following Ukraine with a similar project called Engineering and Technology with Russia. The imperial ambitions of Putin must die on the border with Ukraine. The People's Front stresses its position -- the introduction of a visa regime with Russia. Now that we have a visa-free regime with the European Union, the introduction of a car is not just relevant, it is absolutely necessary and there are no obstacles. The talk that Russia will make in return for a visa for Ukrainian citizens is manipulation. Any Ukrainian citizen is now at risk of being illegally imprisoned in Russia and tortured in the territory. Any foreigner who wants to leave Russia must now receive a so-called visa. So you don't need manipulations or illusions, you enter a visa with an aggressor country and a dot. Next. On August 23, we will celebrate the Day of the Ukrainian Flag. And traditionally this day will be much solemn and dedicated to this festival. The People's Front is proposing during these last two plenary weeks that remain to be passed by the State Flag Act. The relevant bill was introduced by Prime Minister Arsenius Yatsenuk back in the 15th year. Parliament looked at it in the first reading on February 2nd, 16th, and for over a year, it's been staring at it on the committee. So, Mr. Head, I ask you, over the last two weeks, to submit this bill to the Hall for consideration, and let us accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u23	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u24	And finally. The People's Front calls on Parliament to support Bill 5670-d on ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language. Among the drafters of the bill are almost 80 people's deputies, including representatives of the People's Front. The adoption of this bill requires both society and public figures. The Ukrainian language, like the Ukrainian flag, is a symbol of statehood and a factor of national security. Language is not just a means of communication, it protects us in political, informational and cultural space, and today we must protect our symbols and our borders with maximum effort. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u25	Heroim Slava! Colleagues, closing statement. I invite you to speak to the Deputy Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council, Oksana Siroid, and in three minutes we are moving on to the agenda. Please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, I would like to address the President, the Prime Minister, the coalition deputies, to those who defile Oleg Berezuk's actions today. You underestimate it because it is difficult for you to appreciate a measure of dignity because you lack your own dignity. You underestimate fear and helplessness because you know you're lying, but you can't admit it to people. You've been lying ever since you said you were going to live a new life, and in fact, you just settled old schemes. You lied when you promised to cancel and amend the Elections Act, which allowed Yanukovich to concentrate his power because this law serves you today. You lied for 25 years when you promised to limit parliamentary integrity. You've been walking like this for 25 years, here, in this room. You promised to investigate Maydan's crimes, but you're afraid to go out on your own. You promised a blind trust, but the people saw your declarations. With the reforms you promise, you simply redistribute the streams. You're stealing from the defense budget of the people who are fighting, and your corrupt Ucrobanprom is known worldwide. You sold the Constitution when you proposed special status in exchange for additional powers for the President. Today you intend to discuss the occupation of the Ukrainian territory with the invader. Maybe it's a new fashion in a war strategy? But I wonder what factory you're selling the state for this time. You know, Lviv is just an example of the resistance to this lie and your vanity, one little example. I want to support Oleg Berezuk today, and I'm going to join him. I'll be with him, I'll be starving to try and protect people from your delusion. It's my doing, too, it's my choice as a man. And I advise the Levites to unite their efforts and call on the President to release the district administrator who carried out and issued criminal orders, demeaning the dignity of the Levites. And you'll make your choice about the President and the next coalition and the next government next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u27	Colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. First of all, we have the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Justice and other legislative acts (numbers 6232 and 6232-1). Since the draft law has more than 100 articles, we have no right to consider it as a reduced procedure. And that's why we're going to look at it as a whole. And I'll remind you that first the co-authors speak, then the committee with questions from the deputies, and then there will be discussions from the deputies and the factions. Is Alexy Valeriovich Filatov there? Is that right? He'll be right there, won't he? Let's start with Alona Shkrum. No, it's not. Then we wait, then we wait. And I invite you to the report. Attention! As soon as he's in the Philadelphia Hall, we'll find him. I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Ukrainian President's Office, Philatov Aleksija Valeriyovich. Please, Mr. Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u28	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Sorry I'm late. Dear Mr. Head, honourable people's deputies, today your decision awaits the next important issue in the context of judicial reform, namely making changes to procedural legislation. We have three elements of judicial reform: institutional, procedural and personnel. During the last two years, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made substantial progress with the organization of the institutional component: the approved changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Judicial and Judicial Act, the Supreme Council of Justice Act. The judicial authorities, the Higher Qualifying Commission, and the Supreme Council of Justice began working with the staff. Now, our joint task is to organize the trial by setting new standards and rules in the judiciary that would fit better world practices. The bill was drafted within the framework of the Council on Judicial Reform for two years with the participation of leading Ukrainian and international scientists in the judicial process of practicing lawyers, with the participation of members of the various factions of Parliament. The bill went through several rounds of discussion and received support from the legal community. The bill provides for a series of substantial money in the trial. First of all, it's an effective protection of rights as a predominant task of justice. The task of judicial action must be a just, unbiased and timely settlement of disputes with a view to effectively protecting the rights and legitimate interests of those seeking trial. Second, it's an expansion of court defense and evidence. This is about the protection of rights not only in a way defined by law or a treaty but also in another way that effectively protects the right. Third, it's an effective suit and evidence mechanism. Fourth, it's the maximum competition of the parties and proportionality as a principle of judicial action. The court must act solely as an arbitrator and never as an investigator when it comes to the economic and civil process. Fifth, these are new rules of jurisdiction and jurisdiction. The jurisdiction between the general, commercial and administrative courts is proposed to distinguish between the subject and not the parties to the dispute. Sixth, it's simplifying and accelerating the handling of complex and less important matters, bringing small and indisputable sums in order of orderly conduct, mostly in electronic form. Seventh, it's to provide thorough preparation and consideration of complex matters. This is a general procedure that ensures careful preparation of the matter as a guarantee of its proper, timely, and unhindered consideration. Eighth, this is to ensure that the case and the legal definition are dealt with at the right time. Ninth, mechanisms to prevent the abuse of procedural rights. The tenth, effective compensation of court costs, the harmonization of civil and commercial justice rules with the simultaneous preservation of the specificities of each of these processes. Finally, no less important is the introduction of an electronic court that facilitates access to justice, the maximum use of information technology, the possibility of all procedural actions through electronic means with appropriate identification mechanisms and the security of the participants. In addition, the court’s support for alternative ways of resolving disputes between international commercial arbitration and the arbitral tribunal. The adoption of this bill will also allow Ukraine to move to a trilanque judicial system, thus implementing the Council of Europe's many-year recommendations to ask citizens to come to justice. This is an exclusive legal issue that has been pending for many years. So I hope that you can find a common interest in building a quality system of justice, and this interest will be higher than fractional or political interests. This bill will allow the construction of a trial that will meet better European standards and practices. Please take this important responsible decision and support Bill 6232 in the first reading today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u29	Thank you. Please prepare for the question book. Please record for the interview. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! This bill, which is proposed to be considered today in the session room, is one of the most important bills that form part of the entire judicial reform. At the same time, when we talk about the content of these bills, which have already been announced from the rostrum, it is very important to understand their form. In this case, when we discuss these bills, which contain three procedural new codes and a large number of amendments to other very important laws, without which the functioning of the entire judicial system is not possible when it is combined in one single document, it is impossible to ensure the adoption of a quality final result. So the Self-Help faction insists that each code be accepted as a separate document to ensure that they can then be actually used in court practice rather than in court.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u31	Please, 30 seconds -- finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u32	so that they can be effectively applied as a result of adoption in court practice, not just to have one large, incomprehensible document with which legal practitioners will not be able to defend the rights of our citizens in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u33	Please. Will You Answer or Comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u34	If that was a question, I'd like to comment on the following. It is not by chance that this bill is presented as the only one that provides for amendments to the three codes. There are a number of questions, changes that cannot be made by adopting a single codex without adopting another codex. For example, the division of the rules of jurisdiction, if certain cases are transferred, is out of the jurisdiction of one court, for example, the general jurisdiction, and they are part of the jurisdiction of another court, whether an economic or an administrative court. The second example is the function of the Supreme Court. These rules can only be implemented at the same time. The third example is the functioning of an electronic court that can only be implemented simultaneously for all types of court. The fourth example is the judicial review of the execution of court decisions, the enforcement of the court level, and this can be done. These examples can be continued. That is why it was not an accident that such a form of consideration of the bill was proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u35	Please, ten seconds. Mr. Alexei, you're done, aren't you? Thank you. Next question, National Deputy Alona Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u36	Alon's splinter, Fatherland faction. Representative of the President of Ukraine or representative of the President's Administration! You, unfortunately, are now marked by the longest bill in the history of Ukraine. This is the longest bill in the history of Ukraine today on page 794. Even now you're not telling the truth that he's presupposing changes to the three codes, you've just answered the question, and he provides three new procedural codes, a change to eight other codes of Ukraine, and a change to 18 other laws of Ukraine. Not even Mr. Portnow on this Supreme Council has done so, and there has never been such a thing. Please tell me, do you think you can start reforming the judicial system, the judicial system and the process in Ukraine for violating the law? For example, article 4 of the Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges, which states that amendments to this law are made only by separate laws of Ukraine and cannot be combined with other 18 laws, the drafting of three new codes and amendments to the other eight codes. There are also procedural rules, in fact, in the Supreme Council, as stated and done in a way that is normative.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u37	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u38	Where all of this is to be given by individual codes and individual changes. And I ask you to respect the law of Ukraine, the Parliament and, indeed, to divide it, as a minimum, into four, into five different bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u39	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. I would like to point out that, first of all, a thorough analysis of the Supreme Council Rules will not allow you to refer to any norm of the Supreme Council that would have been violated by this project. Indeed, the Supreme Council Rules provide for certain codes to be amended only by a separate law. As far as the codes are concerned. This is the Customs Code, this is the Budget Code and this is the Tax Code. And this is an exclusive list. There are no other restrictions on amending codes. When I spoke of three codes, I meant that the three basic codes were being amended by means of a new edition. Yes, there are others associated with this change. For example, it is clear that the Supreme Court, under the same rules with certain differences that are due to the specific process, should also work to deal with criminal cases, so criminal, procedural legislation. The Criminal Procedure Code is also subject to changes in the function of the Supreme Court. When it comes to the execution of court decisions, whether in certain categories of cases, it is clear that changes can also be made to others.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u41	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u42	But just because it's a complex and complex bill doesn't mean that such a bill can't be adopted. There is no violation of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u43	Thank you. We completed the answers to the questions. I'm asking the reporter to take over. One more question. Come on. Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u44	Sobolje, Fatherland. The definition of what is appropriate and which does not correspond to the violation of the Rules is made by the relevant committee as a proposal, and these are in fact the conclusions of the Supreme Council. What is obvious is that a bill that simultaneously contains changes to other laws cannot be considered is obvious. These are the relevant conclusions of the Constitutional Court, a clear section of the Rules. Why don't you go to the science-expert department and divide these legislative acts according to the scope of their regulation and only then consider them by the procedure that provides for the first reading procedure? All the other options are violations of the Rules, of the law of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u45	Thank you. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. I'll probably do it again, but I'll tell you that there are no violations of the Rules. No provision of the Rules, and none of the speakers referred to any article of the Rules that had been violated. And secondly, as I have explained, it is the complex nature of this issue -- making changes to procedural legislation -- that dictates the need for a simultaneous change in a large number of legislative acts, including several procedural codes. This is once again: the function of the Supreme Court under the same rules, the distribution of jurisdiction under the same rules, the functioning of an electronic court, the control over the execution of judicial decisions, as fundamental issues that cannot be resolved separately in one code and waiting for the adoption of other codes. Then they really won't work in practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u47	Thank you. We completed the question this time. Please report to take your place. And I would like to invite you to the co-report of the author of the alternative bill of the People's MP, Alona Shkrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u48	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, most Ukrainians believe that we do not have Parliamentarianism at all in Ukraine. Trust in Parliament is extremely low. Parliament is considered a circus. You see what's going on here. About Parliament, every President somehow wipes his legs, breaks Parliament over his knee. And unfortunately, this bill, now submitted by the Ukrainian President's Administration and the President of Ukraine, is further deepening the actual problem of parliamentaryism in Ukraine and further weakening the state institutions. The President thinks that, by breaking Parliament and forcing it to adopt in one bill a huge number of different norms that cannot be in one bill, once, and agreeing on such a vote once so as not to spend too much money not to waste too much time, so he seems to be helping to reform the country and only weakening Parliament, not himself. But the problem is that by weakening Parliament in this way, it weakens all of the state institutions that we have already completely shaken. And this is a totally unacceptable story in the country during the war. This bill is the longest bill in the history of Ukraine. Neither Mr. Janukovic nor Mr. Portnov, a colleague, dreamed of doing so. The conclusion of the scientific and legal administration, the scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council is clear: it has never been, it cannot be, the codes should be passed separately, the laws on these codes should be amended separately, the amendments to the Judicial Act and the status of judges, in accordance with article 4 of the Judicial Act itself, and the status of judges should be submitted separately. And procedures in this matter are very, very important. Here, Mr. Filatov and the Ukrainian President's Administration are proposing, once again, a new edition of three procedural codes: the Master's, the Civil Procedural and the Code of Administrative Justice. At the same time in the same bill, they propose to amend 8 other Ukrainian codes and 18 other Ukrainian laws. At the same time, if you say essentially these changes, colleagues, there's a lot of right things, but because the changes are so huge, they mixed everything up there, as the classic says, mixed both horses and people. There's an automatic arrest of funds in debt accounts for Ukrainian citizens, and Ukrainian citizens need to know and hear it. There is a challenge to the court to answer through the Internet if it is not possible to establish its place of residence. How this is going to happen in the reality of Ukraine that is now, and with that confidence in the judicial system, I don't know. There are some changes to international commercial arbitration and there is a general exclusion of the Arbitral Court clause, which is changes that are totally inappropriate in this sense to procedural codes. It's where the so-called banking secret is cleaned up because there are changes to the Banking and Banking Act. And this is only a small part of the change that we were able to see there in the short time that this bill was in Parliament. Colleagues, in my alternate bill, I've deleted all these shameful things that I've just listed. I assure you that there are still a lot of things that don't apply to the changes to the procedural codes, to the process of Ukraine, to the judiciary, but only show some lobbyist interests, the corrupt interests of the President's Administration and, unfortunately, its representatives. The Scientific and Experimental Authority, having examined the President's separate bill and my alternative bill, supported almost all the changes that I made there: it supported the exclusion of the automatic detention of funds in debt accounts, supported the exclusion of the court's reply via the Internet in Ukraine, supported the exclusion of amendments in general to the Rules of International Commercial Arbitration and Arbitration, supported other things. In addition, the observations of the Supreme Council Scientific and Expert Office say very clearly: not to humiliate Parliament, not to humiliate all Ukrainian deputies, to divide these things into four different bills, to adopt them separately, to conduct each one by full procedure, because each individual has more than 100 articles and refers to a huge reform of the judiciary in Ukraine and to procedural justice. Everyone has to have a specific period of action when we can adopt amendments to other bills and other procedural codes, and then they have to be carefully studied so that they can be used at all by those judges who will do so. This number of changes, it completely makes it impossible for so-called judicial reform, because no judge and no lawyer, not even Mr. Filatov, can immediately study them and understand how decisions are to be made in court and how it can be used. You guys know why this is happening? I have to explain why this is being submitted to the Supreme Council today in exactly the same way as the longest bill in the history of Ukraine. Because there's absolutely no trust in each other in the coalition. Because respectable members of the so - called coalition do not trust each other so much that they do not trust that if the changes to one procedural code are voted on, this will happen to another. Because every vote has to be paid or negotiated with the will of the people, with the Rebirth, with the Opposition Block, with those oligarchs who have their deputies here in Parliament. And that's why it's in one bill on 794 pages. And that's why it's impossible to split up, because mistrust is scary. That's why we have to deal with the head of the Court of Auditors for changing the CLTC, for the Ombudsman, and for all other matters, unfortunately. This is all connected and we need to understand this causal link. When I suggested that I divide these bills once and for all, they told me that we had to go against it all at once, or it might not go through, and it would cost a lot of money. But unfortunately, this contradiction costs Ukraine very dearly and is very expensive for each of us and for every Ukrainian citizen. Similar legislative machinations, equilibrists did not dream of even Janukovic and even Mr. Portnov. And in this, unfortunately, the Presidential Administration is very shameful and very sad to exceed. So, colleagues, I ask you not to support the bill tabled by the President of Ukraine. I ask that the Ukrainian President's Office make it in accordance with the Ukrainian Rules of Procedure, as provided for in this Hall's rules, provided for in general common sense, provided for by the Judicial Act and the status of judges. And I ask you not to humiliate Parliament, not to humiliate Parliament, not to destroy the parliamentaryism that remains here. I also address the Head of the Supreme Council, I thank him for considering this bill in full procedure, and thank God, but I would like to ask him to give the regulatory committee a mandate to consider again the procedure for introducing this bill, and to consider it in accordance with the standards of standard-setting for the Supreme Council that we have. And then we're just going to look at this bill. No reform of parliamentaryism and the reform of parliament that is being fought for here, in fact, the Head of the Supreme Council, is impossible if Parliament wipes the feet of the President's Administration or any other lawyer from the President's Administration or not from the President's Administration. If you think that Parliament is not a city to discuss where there should be separate discussions on each big bill, then you've confused the country, and then you have to go somewhere to Mr. Grizzlov, who was the former speaker of the Russian Duma and said this famous phrase. I think that the Ukrainian Parliament is a place for discussion, it's a place for normal standardisation, it's a place for respect, at least, of the rules of legislation that we have. And so I demand that the regulatory committee be instructed to review the procedure for introducing this bill and only then to consider it, or to reject this bill, to turn it back, and to consider it normally by dividing it into four or five other bills, to consider it in fact, to consider it carefully through the Committee of the Supreme Council, to consider it with a huge amount of amendments and to remove from it the lobbying corruption that does not apply to the reform of the process in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u49	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum, there'll be questions. Please record the question to the reporter. Three minutes to question. Please hold the recording. Mustafa Najem passes the word to the Dove. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u50	Thank you. Vladislav Dove 197th constituency of Cherkaščina. Dear Alona Ivanovna, well, you have quite faithfully pointed out those violations of legal standards, including violations of the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act. Those norms that have already been highlighted by the scientific and expert administration, and certainly the political motives for why this bill is being introduced in the form in which it came into existence. But I have a question for you as to a young man who has a higher legal education in the Western Union. Please tell me if you may be familiar with the practice of other countries when such extensive documents have been accepted. And also, perhaps, have you recommended to your previous report, taking into account the practice that has already been introduced to the Supreme Council, the Act on the Law of Ukraine, which regulates completely all legal relations and forgets the norm in general as such the quality of Ukrainian parliamentaryism. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u51	Thank you. Thank you for the questions, colleagues, really, we have studied the examples of other countries that have undertaken procedural reform, there have been many and very many of our neighbours having undertaken procedural reform, and even Ukraine has already tried to reform the process not once, there has never been such a thing as having all the codes in one bill and being adopted at the same time, and going into action at about the same time. In fact, it doesn't have to be a bicycle, it's all very clear in the Ukrainian regulations, it's in the standards of standard-setting technology in Ukraine. We need to introduce, divide the bill into five different ones, make it five, consider it five, and each of them will act as a minimum, for example, from 1 January of the following year, or perhaps even from 1 May of the following year, in order to understand how to interpret it and how to use it in action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u52	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Odarchenkovi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u53	Please pass the word to colleague Odarchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u54	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Mrs. Alona, I will personally vote for your bill, it seems more perfect to me. But I have a question about Project 6232, and I want you to comment. From my point of view, he's completely imperfect, and he doesn't have a lot of possible situations before. application if voted in favour of a well-established law. Please answer that question. Imagine that the court of the civil court of cassation had rendered a court decision that was directly contrary to the ruling of the similar court, which the court of cassation had considered, had already rendered a decision, had been published, and had been sent to the parties. How can the Supreme Court in such a situation eliminate contradictions as this can be eliminated by the law proposed by the President as it will work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u55	I thank Mr. Odarchenk for asking. In fact, if you look at the findings of the scientific expertise and the comments to Mr. President's bill, they make up 33 pages. There's a lot and a lot of inconsistencies and inaccuracies and excess standards that I've removed in my alternative project, for example. This is understandable because the bill is huge, the bill has huge changes to different codes and laws, and new texts in the codex. That's why I think we need to look at these changes separately, to look at each bill separately on a profile committee, to look at each one separately during the second reading of the amendments, to clean out things that are not agreed upon, to clear out of there the lobbyist things that I've listed here, and to do the implementation mechanism, and to use these normal things for any judge, whether it's a new judge elected after the competition, God forbid it's going to be that judge who's already been working. But no one will know how to use these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u56	Thank you. Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u57	I'd like to ask the honourable reporter for an alternative law. I am very grateful for the assessment that you have given to the actual circumstances of the drafting of this bill. I would like to ask you, would you not see a plot, compatible with the adoption of the law on electronic declarations, introducing simplified electronic courtship, which allows, so to say, unacceptably to make those contributions, to take citizens of Ukraine? That's the first one. Don't you see in this that anti-constitutional action against the interests of the state, I'm referring to the actions of the drafters of the bills that come from the Bank? That's the first one. And the second. Tell me, please, how do you see that these bills have been passed today?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u58	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u59	Can't you see that they're based on their anti-constitutional all the procedural rules of regulation that make a more case-altering way of dealing with cases and form of precedent and for today in that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. You know, I see this so-called original practice, which was first born in the President's Administration, Mr. Dustenk now, passing a bill on 794 pages and scanning it through parliament, I see it as destroying parliamentaryism, and the state, and the President himself. And it has a very simple, in fact, basis -- it's a fear that nothing will be taken and that it won't agree to a few votes at the same time. And as for your question in an electronic court, as I understand it, it's the science and expertise that makes a very large number of observations right in an electronic court, including on a call through the Internet, for example, and the introduction of a mechanism, in general, the challenge of answering via the Internet. In fact, the e-Court has to set up an information exchange process between the different parties of the court and make life easier for them and for them, in fact, the situation in Ukraine with jurisdiction, rather than being a basis for potential abuse, corruption and the destruction of the constitutional rights of citizens in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u61	Thank you. Question time's up. Thank you, Helen Ivanovna. And I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Prince Ruslan Petrovich, to the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! Because time is running out, and as the committee head within five minutes, I'm going to have to talk about two bills. You know, I'm listening to the debate and the impression that we're in a situation until Parliament adopts changes to the Constitution and until the Supreme Court's competition seems like a huge failure and we're in no hurry to just predict what the structure of the judiciary might be for the future? Dear colleagues, we made the necessary changes a year ago, and almost a year ago they became effective, and we have almost six months in the session room not been able to make any decisions with you to consider whether or not the most important part of judicial reform is part of procedural legislation. You know, I'm just surprised to hear that we're again starting a discussion about the form, giving it as much as it fits the Rules as it does. My friends, I would like to say, especially, Alan Ivanovna, to you, during your introduction of the alternative bill, the discussion would have to stop because your bill, which is identical to the one submitted by the President, you actually legitimized the submission of his bill and your own, confirming that they comply with the Supreme Council Rules. And after 250 votes Parliament has included this bill in the agenda of this session, this discussion should have stopped at all. We are now at another stage, at the first reading stage, when we need to make extremely generous and fast decisions, because, my friends, there is actually a competition at the final stage for a new Supreme Court that can't work until new legislation is adopted. All the talk about what we're going to do is we're going to adopt one code faster, another coder later, and then we're going to look at the situation, maybe mix them up or swap places, that's for people who don't understand the subject a little bit. One of the auction courts can't start work early, one of them later. And there is one constitutional body, the Supreme Court, which, according to the Constitution, is to begin its work with the plenary meeting of all judges of all the court in question, who are to act fully on the second day immediately, including in accordance with the new procedural codes. It's in shape. Now essentially. Indeed, there is a problem. And the problem is, let's say, it's more of a discussion than a fatal one that you can't get past. I think now is the time when we, on behalf of the committee, propose solutions and solutions in the way that is possible. Only possible at this stage. By a decision of the committee and a working group that has worked for several months on procedural codes, we propose that if the bill under registration number 6232 is adopted, it is proposed to support it as a foundation of the committee, considering that in fact another bill is a copy of it with certain novelties, and this bill is a fundamental, broader one, and one that initiates, indeed, new quality institutions in procedural legislation. Here we can discuss all kinds of orderly conduct, electronic court, but these are novels that make us live with. Believe me, we can't stand apart from the processes that are taking place in the world and in Europe, when an electronic court is a fundamental form of justice, and we just think that we can reach the level that we are implementing or not. We should have done it the other day. But under any circumstances, we consider it appropriate and now authorized on behalf of the committee to propose the model that should be on behalf of the committee, let's say it's the basis for working on it. on this procedural legislation to the second issue. In particular, the Supreme Council's Committee proposes, in its Resolution on Adoption on the basis of the relevant Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Master Procedural Code, the Civil Procedure Code, the Code of Administrative Justice, other legislative acts (under number 6032), to entrust the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy and Justice with a draft Code of Civil Procedure, the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts in connection with the adoption of the Master's Procedural Code, the Civil Procedure Code, the draft Code of Administrative Justice and the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Judicial and Judicial Law. This will give you an opportunity if you accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u63	Please, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u64	will allow for the adoption of five separate legislative acts in this form in the second reading of the bills. And finally. There are a number of things that are questionable from the point of view of the relevance of raising court rates, from the point of view of, let's say, the introduction of an institution of automatic arrest, although I'm paying attention to the fact that it's planned to be implemented only since 2019, but unfortunately not everyone is reading the bill, because it's a very large phony, which is probably hard to read right away. But I think we will definitely work on these issues for a second reading and find an acceptable form that will allow us to finally vote on these laws in general and give way to the full implementation of justice by the Supreme Court and by new appeals and local courts. Thank you very much. Please support me on the basis of the suggestions made by the committee head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u65	Mr. Ruslan, stay in the rostrum. Three minutes is a question to a co-rapporteur. I'm asking you to do the recording. Paul Kishkar renders the word “Bird. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u66	Dear Ruslan Petrovich, I have two questions for you. The first question and the wish that you still have at the level of your committee is to ensure that we do not have such a situation when the same disputes fall within the jurisdiction of different jurisdictions. You know that the processual changes determine jurisdiction completely again, a new approach. And in fact, we need to make sure that there's no situation where the Code of Conduct, let's say, will be adopted and the Civil Procedure Code will remain old. And my second question concerns, in fact, the practice of preparing for the second reading, unfortunately, in the bills there are rules that are not fully applicable, in fact, to this bill that we are discussing. You know, that's what happened to the Constitutional Court bill. That way. There was a standard of amendments to the Notary, Lawyer, Human Rights Commissioner Act. My address to you as a national deputy is still impossible to practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u67	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u68	And so that when we work and work on this processual legislation at the level of amendments to the people's deputies on the basis of your committee, we don't adopt decisions or uphold those norms that don't actually apply to this processual legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u69	I'm short on the first question. And the proposal made on behalf of the committee seems to me to be an opportunity to implement your idea, so that one court of cassation doesn't start its work, because it will have all the procedural reasons, and the other one won't, and then we'll see a serious attempt to enter another territory, because there's going to be a procedural vacuum that somehow needs to be filled. So just so that we don't let that happen, we're going to offer this solution. And the second. For so-called others, which don't apply to this legislation, I have to tell you that there are almost none, I would say. I'd say they're not there, but we can discuss them, because they're basically things that are compatible with procedural laws. If you have, for example, the International Commercial Arbitration in mind, because that's where the discussion begins, I'm here to support you. And there's a preliminary discussion around this on the committee in the second reading, with the participation of representatives of the International Commercial Arbitration of Ukraine. We can find an acceptable formula that I think will be supported by a hall. I understand this problem, I mean it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u70	Thank you. And the last question is Alexander Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Petrovich, you have said that these bills are not so potentially conflicted, and there is no reason why there is no reason why they should not be accepted. I have a personal question for you as the head of the committee: do you feel that the committee will support proposals for lowering the rates of the court, first of all, because they are elevated, and thus does not facilitate the availability of justice to ordinary citizens. And secondly, to have access to court disputes in the process of cassation. Because the current texts and proposed bills do not in principle change the situation in which the court of a cassation in the course of a cassation complaint brought with detention of procedurally defined terms regarding its conformity with procedural legislation, but because of its lack of justification, it will simply not consider the specified cassation complaint, thereby violating it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u72	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u73	Thank you. In doing so, by violating one of the basic principles of judicial action provided for in article 129 of the Constitution of Ukraine, regarding the obligation to review judicial decisions in an appeal and cassation order. However, because of changes in the Constitution, it is stated that only in cases provided for by law is the case in cassation. I'm very concerned about the limitations of these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u74	As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to start with a second question, which is purely professional. I think that this discussion can be moved to the committee's site and discussed in a professional circle around the things that you've expressed as concerns. As for the first question, I've been talking about him since the beginning. Indeed, a whole series of factions express their position around the fact that it is not appropriate to raise court rates. Well, here's the question. I think we can solve it. It's about the insignificance of the uplift. Not the downsizing of those who exist, but the insignificance of the uplift. But it was here that Alexei Valeriovich spoke the idea. The point is that when we set up a law enforcement institution, we actually offered our plaintiffs an alternative. They can determine whether they are willing to follow a general procedure where the corresponding amount of money is to be paid as a court or whether they want, for example, another simplified new procedure in the form of orderly conduct, which will be cheaper. And we'll make it possible to access justice. It's a question at the committee level. We're definitely, I think we'll talk and we'll find a basis for compromise that will be sufficient to enact laws in general. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u75	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Question time is running out. No, not three questions, three minutes, John. Time's up. But now, I remind you, there will be factions from the factions, there will be speeches from the deputies. All those who want to speak now will be able to speak. John, well, friends, colleagues, according to the Rules, is given three minutes. The answer and questions may be in minutes and two. And so this is determined by how long the questions are, how long the answers are. Everyone will be able to speak now. And I'm asking you to record the factions. Please. Kishkar Pavlov Mikolaiovich. Transfers the word to Alexei. Alexei's, please. Alekseyev, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, nearly a year ago we accepted changes to the Constitution in part of the changes to justice. In line with these changes, a competition for the judges of the Supreme Court is now ongoing and is about to end. For the first time in the history of Ukraine, there is a competition, a public competition, an open competition to replace the judges of the Supreme Court. It's over in two weeks. But the Supreme Court, the newly formed Supreme Court will not be able to work. There will be 120 new Supreme Court judges, including scientists, lawyers, the best of the best of the public contests, but they will have no authority if we do not accept today in the first reading and the next plenary week, which remains until the parliamentary holidays, in the second reading of the procedural codes in the new edition. It is only in the Supreme Court that there will be no authority to work for the Supreme Court to work for the new system of justice. I mean, if we don't support this bill today, the Supreme Court won't be working until autumn. Today's request to support in the first reading, between the first and second readings, the committee is working on these procedural codes, and in the next plenary week, I hope that in the second reading, these procedural codes will be voted on. And in that case, within a month, the new Supreme Court will be able to work and this will be a real reform of the Ukrainian judicial system. Please be supportive. The Peter Prashenko bloc will vote in favour of amendments to the procedural codes. Please support this bill and I call upon you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u77	Kostenko Pavel Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u78	Please give the word to Ruslan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, now that we're discussing all the procedural codes, we need to understand that the most important issue right now is not just the content, although, of course, it's important, we've talked about this a lot in this room today, but it's a question of form. The form of whether we get separate procedural codes, or whether we get one huge and incomprehensible document. As far as content is concerned. Of course, there are many questions about the proposed codes, and this is also a model of the Supreme Court, which has been substantially changed in comparison with the Law on the Judiciary, which has already been adopted by Parliament, and this is the question, in principle, of the principle of judiciality, because in the changes to the Constitution we have introduced the rule of law, we have deviated from the principle of legality, which allows the courts to settle disputes too narrowly, and we have introduced a rule of law that is crucial to the protection of citizens' rights and interests. Here, for some reason, it appears again in procedural codes. There are other issues that call for discussion and that require very serious discussion. But all of these things, they won't have any meaning at all, because they won't be able to be implemented if the bills aren't divided and voted as separate codes as separate laws. So in this case, the question is, how did this bill come into existence? Why did it take so long to discuss this issue, and in the end, it did not result in decisions that were also emphasized by the Chief Legal Authority? And in this way, when we discuss these bills, we can't be sure that in the end we get the very procedural codes that will allow us to protect the rights of Ukrainian citizens in the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u80	Thank you. From Rebirth Party Pisarenko Valerius. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u81	Thank you, Mr. Head. I want to tell you that, unfortunately, it's a shame that we're about to adopt this important bill in such a way and at such a time. I would like to remind you that a year ago you and I adopted changes to the Constitution, which actually have a lot of revolutionary and positive norms that are now implemented in the higher law of Ukraine. These standards have been developed for many years in collaboration with experts from the Venice Commission, experts from USAID, many specialists have worked, and two parliamentary calls have worked. And a year ago, you and I approved, and almost a year ago, you and I didn't get any changes to the Procedural Codes, and it's only today that we're told, "We don't have time, we need to run the court system to work." I'm sorry, what have we been doing for a year? Where were the procedural codes that could not be submitted to Parliament for a year? The other one. In fact, I want to support all the colleagues who talked about the procedural problems of introduction. Codes have been introduced in violation of laws. We talked about that this document needs to be responded to, reinstated, make normal procedural moments. They didn't hear us. Okay. Put a bomb under your bills. You're going to get a big problem. I'm sure you'll get first reading support, then it'll take months to work it out. Even the fact that science management has found a way out for you today is also a gift that can leave a big problem as well. Because today you're doing know-how by working on the bill. I'd like to make another point. There is no professional discussion. What is going on in Parliament today is probably due to the diplomatic capacity of the head of the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Policy. After all, at all the meetings the factions did not even want to talk about the bill being considered in Parliament. What do we propose today? We propose that we finally approach all the laws relating to judicial reform from a professional point of view: both the Procedural Code and the Constitutional Court Act. If we don't go back to the professional discussion, you'll see that we're going to have a big problem, as you now have with the formation of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, which is also being shaped with a procedural problem. I mean, that. Can I have 10 more seconds? I mean, it's ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u82	Please, 10 seconds, and we're only going to continue for 10 seconds. Please, Valérie, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u83	I want to say that our parliamentary group supports having a normal independent judicial system. And we will support all the professional discussions and voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u84	Thank you. I've already given you 10. All right, 10 seconds, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u85	Today we will allow the committee to work on this bill for the second reading. But if you don't hear us, he won't be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u86	Thank you. Fellows, once again, I'm going to add just 10 seconds, so try to formulate the speech in a way that allows you to enter the time stipulated by the Rules. I now call Wozniak Yuri. He's giving the word to Leonid to Yemen. Please, Mr. Leonid, from the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u87	Leonid Yemen, the People's Front, the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, remember this moment. Today we stand at a crossroads: one road leads to fair and just judgment, and the other road immediately returns and leads back to the swamp of corruption, to the swamp of forced decisions, to the swamp of injustice. Today is a very important moment, and I'm going to quote why. The Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges directly states that until the changes to the Procedural Legislation are adopted, the old Supreme Court remains to work, the old higher specialized courts remain to work. This means that the adoption of these changes to procedural legislation is the moment that is necessary and necessary, and this is already defined by existing legislation to ensure that the Supreme Court competition, once completed, has its result in the formation of a new Supreme Court, and the higher specialized courts have been eliminated. By not enacting this law, we put a cross on all judicial reform, we put a cross on amendments to the Constitution in part of the contest to the new Supreme Court, in part of the elimination of the four-level system of courts, the liquidation of the higher specialized courts. Today, this is a crucial moment, and today every national MP has to decide, it is for the country to have fair and fair courts or it is for leaving an old corrupt system formed even during the Yanukovic regime. Allow me a few technological moments. It has been said that, from a procedural point of view, the amendments to the four procedural codes are one law. In fact, there are little questions on this point, but look on the other side. Let's imagine a situation where we have to adopt four different bills and not the fact that they're all going to be adopted at one time. What will we then have as a result? We're going to have two codes that started to work and two that didn't start. This will mean that part of the Supreme Court, two chambers, for example, have been given the opportunity to work and two have not. And that's what we're talking about in a very popular language, in a legal language, that's going to put legitimacy without a new Supreme Court, the legitimacy of its creation, the establishment of the beginning of work, and clearly its decisions will call into question. So unfortunately, there is no other way to adopt these bills, but there is no one to change the codes by one law, because they are extremely high risks. So the committee and the legal administration have proposed a procedure that will allow for a clear definition of what changes, what codes we make, by what chapter, and thus we will form clear changes to the procedural codes until the second reading is completely conscious and completely within the legislative framework.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u88	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u89	Who will allow the new Supreme Court to be launched, eliminate the higher specialized courts, and initiate the reform to appeal courts. This is what the Ukrainian people require.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u90	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Germano Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I represent the Opposition Block, Nimchenko Vasily Ivanovic. I will say that, indeed, we have a need to amend procedural legislation in all areas of law, including civil and administrative law. However, I would like to emphasize the following: our Parliament, in the direction of judicial reform, has, especially for two years now, been persistently ignoring the constitutional postulate. Friends, where is the judiciary? Where is the judiciary? She's independent, where's her word here? I would like us to decide on this: we need to change the rules, we need to change the procedures, we need to be good, we need to act in accordance with the rules of the Constitution. If the 55th Constitution gives citizens the right to the right, to return, to assert the right to defend their interests in the courts, then why are the principles of narrowing the rights to judicial protection designed and introduced? On the basis of what someone has said and introduced the institution of judicial discretion or discretion in this system, there is a need for an objective review of the complex, necessary process and for an objective verdict and for the collection of money from citizens, the withdrawal of money from personal accounts in banks. That's what this is about. It's not clear that there's a dog trapped here, in these changes, trapped and specifically confiscated that no one can get to her in an anti-constitutional way. And that's where it's guaranteed. Therefore, when we talk about the process, we must always assume that the rules of the Procedural Code are the mirror of the process. Their compliance is based on objective, comprehensive consideration of the case, taking into account internal conviction. They've already talked about Ivan Susanine. Someone's turning something into a swamp. But you've already sat in the swamp, the well-respected authors of judicial reform. You've driven this judicial reform below the plituse, we don't have justice, we have essentially usurped judicial authority, and we have to admit that. And such codes, which are now being drafted, certainly do not have the right to exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u92	From the Fatherland faction of Olenna Ivanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u93	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, you know, there's this expression: "good intentions paved the way to hell." Unfortunately, this could be the same story. Because, based on good procedural reform ideas, based on the things that have been done in changing the procedural codes, the legal community is actually trying to contradict a decision where the so-called coalition can regulate other issues that are not entirely relevant to the procedural codes and do so under a case-by-case procedure that completely destroys, in general, the procedure of parliamentaryism and parliamentaryism in this country as an institution. I really agree with colleague Vladislav Golub, who said that the form in which this bill was put forward, in which he is now being tried simply through agreements, including with the parliamentary groups and the opposition bloc and others, is in fact a precedent for a country for a bill that will and may then be submitted by the administration of Mr. Peter Prashenko, which can be called, for example, the bill or the law on the state of Ukraine, where all 20.30.40, 50 necessary changes in the necessary bills, the necessary assignments: the appointment of the Ombudsman, the appointment of the head of the accounting chamber, the appointment of the NCREKP -- all, all of which are questionable, all of the lobbying things into one bill, bring out here and force the so-called coalition to vote. And that's actually what this practice is all about. And that's very sad, because it destroys and weakens all state institutions, and weakens every citizen of Ukraine. And we need to understand that this precedent is extremely dangerous for a state where institutions are already weak, where the public service is not functioning properly, where professionalism is not working right now, unfortunately, even in this room. And now basically what was said by the head of the profiling committee. If I understand you correctly, you're really trying to fix this legislation right now, you've heard us, and you're ready, if I understand correctly, to divide this bill into five other bills, according to legal regulations. If that's the case, the Motherland faction welcomes you very much. Unfortunately, that was not the decision of your committee. And I also have to point out that the committee was looking at this bill before the official conclusions and observations of scientific and scientific management came out, and it was also unacceptable. And I'm going to ask the committee head to invite each faction and me personally as co-author. as an alternate author for all working groups so that we can work on this mechanism. And also, colleagues, those things that are unacceptable and that are not actually relevant to procedural codes and reform of procedural legislation, they must disappear from there, not appear in even greater scope, as is usually the case with lobbyist bills. We must also finally restore confidence in the institutions of the state, the parliament and the judicial system. And unfortunately, the automatic arrest of funds in debt accounts is there in gas and electricity.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u94	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u95	Just as the destruction of banking secrecy in these changes to the Banking and Banking Act does not restore that trust. So stop this legislative equilibristic and let's get to a normal mode of work on important things.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u96	Thank you. And the closing statement from the factions and groups, the Lonely Andrews, and then there will be speeches by the national MPs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u97	I told you, Cooper, I told you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u98	There's a microphone! Cooper, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u99	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. The Radical Party of Oleg Ljaška has stood up for and advocated a consistent judicial reform for this. To expel all the selling judges, take the robes off them, so that they don't disgrace Ukrainian justice and recruit new honest, decent people. Does the bill that we are discussing now resolve this issue? No, of course not. What does he decide? Under the slogans we can change the words "the Supreme Court of Ukraine" to "the Supreme Court" without "Ukraine" not only without Ukraine, without justice in Ukraine. It's a good word. Under the beautiful slogans, what's going on? And they set standards, such as automatic debt write-offs, without the customer being known. Let's think about how we passed the bill, and how we by order allowed it to be done, to be more loyal to getting court orders to collect debt, and now we're going to assume that this is going to be done automatically (read in secret). Is that what people want to see? They probably do. But not all, but the oligarchs that own the skyscrapers, the heat-generating stations, and so on. Will this give greater protection to the judicial system of authority? Probably not. Why did it have to be written in fact, if someone didn't get it, we're actually introducing a case law through this bill. We had in the legal field such, sorry, uncle Plenum of the Supreme Court, who told all the courts what to do. Thus, this case law is now incorporated into the letter of the law, and already the Plenary of the Supreme Court will generalize and legally tell the courts (see judges who have not studied in the institutions and do not know the Ukrainian language) how to apply the rules of law. So in fact, the functions of the Constitutional Court for the interpretation of laws now have the Plenum of the Supreme Court, that is, the case law we will have, and before that we have not. In addition, the rates of the court are rising. Think of the debates in this room that prompted the subject and the bill to raise the judicial congregation. Many have been blocked from the path to justice by raising the judicial congregation here again for money for fish. Yes, a respected coalition that doesn't seem to exist, we want to make judicial reform or under the terms of judicial reform, we want to make justice more difficult. Please give me an answer. And if you take responsibility, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u100	Thank you. And, colleagues, it's now 15 minutes for speeches by national MPs. Please hold the recording. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna. She's not here? Excuse me. Odarchenko. Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Many of you remember that in 2010 a reform was carried out that was then supported by Portnov, the aim of which was to subdue the judicial authority of the President of Ukraine. At that time, the Supreme Court was deprived of authority, and all its functions were transferred to the higher specialized courts. This has led to years of conflict in court practice, the inability of a person to achieve justice if a representative of authority opposes him. At the age of 14, we changed this situation. The Supreme Court has become a body that has solely followed the uniformity of judicial practice that has allowed the construction of the rule of law to begin. Sadly, this bill completely destroys the existing system of justice. In doing so, I mean, not the victory over corruption, but the loss of citizens' ability to defend their rights in court. I'm not going to stop at how this bill is being implemented, which has almost 800 pages and there's no practical time to discuss it. But there is a matter on which we should pay special attention. We create obstacles to people's access to justice. Yes, a person would have to pay not only an exceedingly high court fee but also advance court fees. In doing so, even for such a basic thing as the need for evidence will have to be paid. That is, the court becomes a paid service available only to the rich. Next. You propose to destroy the unity of judicial practice. Remember how it used to be when, in the past, the Supreme Court could only be consulted with the permission of the Supreme Court? It's the same thing, but worse. The College of Judges of the Court of Cassation, on its own initiative, can allow for a hearing of the case in the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court. That is, if a college simply makes an illegal decision contrary to judicial practice, only this college itself can allow its decisions to be reviewed. The project itself is incredibly complicated in handling the case. The speed of legal proceedings is destroyed in the household. In general, the case will be much longer than it is now in all jurisdictions. In addition, since all practices that have been worked out for almost 15 years have been taken into account instead of changes in existing projects. This means once again "galling" and correspondingly hundreds of thousands of people whose cases will be dealt with incorrectly only because of the instability of court practice. I've prepared a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u102	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u103	6448, which allows the work of the new Supreme Court but does not destroy existing jurisprudence, enables the court to be reopened.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u104	Thank you. From Semenach's Self-Help, Roman Sergiyovich. He's handing over Auntie Ostrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. The Self-Help faction advocates changes in the judiciary, for the order of codes that are really necessary. We stand for an impartial, honest, fair and effective trial. Let's see if there's any of these things in that bill that we're considering today. If we're talking about an electronic court, can we bring it in now and at the same time? Because we know that there is a huge problem in our country with the lack of the necessary information and technology infrastructure. We see it everywhere, with all the registers, even with the register of declarations, with the registers running the tax and customs office, where there's always manual interference. Let's do another electronic court, where the perpetrators will also intervene manually. Maybe we should first sort the information part: adopt the Electronic Trust Services Act, determine how to protect, with electronic digital signature, and so on. With regard to the means of protecting the law, there is a right in this bill to protect human rights in any way, not only by law or contract. But, colleagues, the court is a law enforcement body, not a norm, it cannot create a rule of law, at least in the Ukrainian legal system. What a legal nonsense! Let's move on. The Supreme Court, a cassation facility. What do we see? Restricted cases that will be subject to cassation. We all know, at least those practicing lawyers, that practice of repugnant repudiation, when in fact the assistant single-handedly on behalf of the judge was repulsed for money. And what are we going to do now? That the right to a cassation charge will be narrowed down for our citizens. A subpoena to the court through a court-martialed portal. Do all of us now have access to the Internet today and are users of this portal? Is this a very limited circle? I also want to say in the form of this bill, colleagues. Good things are not done in an illegal, illegal way. What's next from the President's Administration? The Act of Amendments to All Laws of Ukraine One? Why, then, do we need a parliament? So we very much ask the President's Administration to introduce these bills separately, to take into account the thoughts that have been heard in Parliament today, to stop destroying Parliament to humiliate it, to destroy parliamentaryism. We are here with you to protect people's rights to a fair and effective court. And once and for all we have to do with these packages, the codes are in the packets. And the next thing we're going to do is we're going to have a bunch of votes for the head of the NBA, the holding fund, the accounting room, the CBC, and so on. Stop making the packets, keep the codes separate, and we'll essentially do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u106	Thank you. Odarchenko gives the floor to Yuri Lewchenk. Please. Turn on Lechchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u107	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. First of all, thank you for your word, for your opportunity to speak. Secondly, I'd like to actually point out the substance of the bill. You know, over the last two and a half years, this cadence of the Supreme Council, like the last cadence, as the cadence passed away, has done and is doing everything possible to remove the court from the ordinary Ukrainian, from the vast majority of the Ukrainian people. And it's found in a lot of things. This is reflected in the port reform that Janukovic has imposed, which is reflected in an increase in the judicial congregation that has already taken place in this chamber. And the court is proposing to increase the bill even further. This is reflected in a totally fictitious and butaphoric competition at the Supreme Court, where in fact 40 percent of the referees' appointments are decided subjectively on the basis of a psychological contest, on the basis of a psychological evaluation, and in fact, their own individuals are pushed out, the people who are close to being censored at the Bank’s are being censored in the highest corridors of power. And this bill continues this trend. As I said, there is an increase in the judicial congregation, which makes Ukrainians even more distant from the courts. Even from this corrupt, impenetrable court, there will still be no way to get to it. A very interesting system is being introduced, an automated system of arresting funds that essentially allows the arrest of all the finances, cash, cash, even people who don't know about it, don't even report them to court, and the court will already decide on the arrest of their accounts. And in the context of today's increase in tariffs, they continue to increase, in the context that Ukrainians cannot pay all this tariff cabal, the obvious automated system of arresting funds will work to kick out the last cents of people's debts that are being created today. And you know, when we talk about this bill, it's very important, in fact, to point out how it goes to the Supreme Council. Like most of the negative bills, like most of the anti-national bills that are still being passed with the Supreme Council, it is being pushed against the rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now I'm predicting that now there's going to be buttoning, now there's going to be people from the Party of Regions who're going to be buttoning as they've always done, and they're going to be voting with other people's cards, and they're going to be closing their eyes, as they were before, in fact, actually happening. So I'm now addressing all the normal people's deputies, and I'm talking to the majors, and then explaining to their voters why they can't go to trial. Don't vote for this criminal bill. It's totally unacceptable. Give individual changes to each code and let us work on them in a professional way.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u108	You're arguing. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u109	Because when it's said that it's an urgent matter to decide, people good, we're adopting laws that are fundamental that will work for decades that affect everyone's life.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u110	Thank you. Controversy Ivan Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u111	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block. I call for us to vote in favour of the new procedural legislation and to pass on the word to Vasil Janick.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u112	"Peter Prashenko's Block" will support Bill 6232 and call on the people's deputies to consolidate on this important issue. Colleagues, these changes are the basis of the judicial system, the reform that Ukrainian society is looking for. The proposed changes developed by the Council of Judicial Reforms with the President of Ukraine are primarily changes that have been called upon to change and move the reform towards improving legislation in the process of procedural change, and most importantly the completion of the creation and formation of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Yes, indeed, today's changes and novelties in these changes are the electronic court, the introduction of an electronic court. Accordingly, a Ukrainian citizen can calmly appeal to the court, pay the court, get information and other help on the Internet. Participants in a court dispute may participate in a session through a videoconference mode, i.e. distance cannot be an obstacle to a legitimate decision. In addition, these changes may distinguish jurisdictions, distinguish between the jurisdictions of the general administrative and the commercial courts. Yes, confidence in the judicial system is near zero in Ukraine. And today's vote should show who really wants to relaunch the judicial system in Ukraine, and who uses this topic exclusively for populism. Every citizen of Ukraine has the right to turn to an honest court and stand before a worthy judge. The Peter Prashenko faction will support Bill 6232, and the alternative we ask to withdraw. I respectfully ask everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u113	Thank you. So my colleagues would like me to report that I'm continuing the meeting for 15 minutes. We're about to make a closing statement. After that, the final word of the authors, and in five minutes, seven of us will move on to a decision, to a vote. Therefore, I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite deputies into the Hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies to the Hall in five, seven minutes. I now give the floor to Rybczyn Aleksija Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u114	Please pass the word to Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u115	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the attention of all of us, and I keep trying to convey this position in the session room, that the procedure for adopting any bill is no less important than its essence. Because if we break the procedure during the introduction of the bill, we will surely then adopt a law that will work badly. And that's why I would like to point out that, in fact, we have a vivid example of how the bill that we are currently considering has not been introduced in accordance with the current legislation to the Supreme Council Rules, which provides that the codes should be submitted as separate bills for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What will happen next? An error occurred while registering this bill, its introduction will lead to another error. And the next big mistake will be when the committee, which, by the way, I thank the head of the committee, who acknowledged that the Supreme Council's Rules had been violated when the bill was introduced, will now release five legislative acts from its second reading committee. Please tell me, from one draft in the first reading, how can five arise for the second reading, someone explain? What kind of bill numbers are they going to be? Who will be the authors of these bills that will come for second reading? Well, we haven't had any practice in Parliament yet, so that we can get a second reading right away with bills where the author is not the original author of the bill. So I actually think that we should not try anymore, you know, something wrong to glue something good into, because it's not going to work out. And I don't understand what prevented it if, in the second reading, the committee realized that each bill would be considered separately, and the committee's chairman had said that, what had prevented it from being introduced by the initiator, the president's legislator, five separate bills, and the problem was being removed when the Supreme Council Rules were passed. So I would certainly like to urge us to stop violating the Supreme Council Rules. To be introduced separately, as stipulated in the Supreme Council Rules, each codex. So that the profile committee can come to a conclusion. So there's the scientific expertise. And so that we, in fact, accept such important bills consciously and according to existing legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u116	Thank you, colleagues. So now from the reporters, the co-reporters, the closing words. I'll probably give you a word for the closing statement of Phillatov Alexia. Only, colleagues, I ask that the speeches be as concise as possible so that we can get to the vote in five minutes, I have the right to continue the session for only 15 minutes. Please, Filatov Aleksei Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u117	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear National Deputies! The discussion that's going on in this room today is really very useful, and we can see that there are a lot of professional lawyers in this room who are interested in making progress on judicial reform issues, and there are no less than professional lawyers who may have a different interest. But I would like to draw your attention to the following, what is now being suggested for your consideration, is the result of a joint work of a very large team of experts who are not governed by political or personal interests that have been proposing to resolve a large number of issues that have been pending for decades in the Ukrainian judiciary, which are proposing to bring Ukraine's judiciary closer to those standards that have long been used in other countries of Europe to make it modern. So when we hear comments that the country isn't ready for an electronic court or that we're not ready for different types of conduct or that we're not ready to differentiate court rates with different types of cases or different features of different procedures, it's very surprising to me, frankly. I think that for a professional discussion, the lawyers present in this room are really, really ready. The important thing is that the profession that the participants in this debate or who have already chosen the participants in this debate are not populism and there is no desire to sabotage any progress on the path of judicial reform. And I'm sure that this professional discussion is going to take place in the second reading, if these bills are supported, I very much ask you to do it today in this room. For the second reading, any professional issue will be properly discussed and a joint consensus decision will be taken. Thank you for your attention and please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u118	Thank you. Please, Alona's Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u119	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Fellows, I will try to make a brief statement, although I must point out that if Mr. Filatov were not to be late to consider this bill in Parliament, there would be no need to continue the session now. My colleagues, you know, I'm grateful for the procedure. I think there's been a really good discussion both by procedure and by form, and essentially the things that we can't agree with here. And I am grateful, indeed, for the fact that during this debate that actually took place in the walls of Parliament today and in the rostrum today, and in fact there were weeks outside this rostrum, in the towers, we were heard, and there would be an attempt to settle in a not very natural legislative way, but to settle this issue and actually divide the bill into five others. And this can somehow solve the procedural problems that will arise. But it's important, colleagues, that we understand that a similar confrontation with the President's Administration of these bills in an entirely unnatural way does not restore trust and actually destroys the state. This legislative squall, the legislative equilibrist, is not the first time that it has actually destroyed public institutions. Therefore, such a procedure should not be adopted every time. We need to return these bills and submit them correctly, as the committee has pointed out today. Well, now essentially, colleagues, I'm going to explain once again the problematic things for Ukrainian citizens that we're going to delete here and for which. The ones we're going to fight. Well, for example, the automatic arrest of funds in gas and electricity debt accounts is an unacceptable norm now for the state of the judiciary and for the condition of Ukrainian citizens, their poverty in which they are. The same is true of a totally unacceptable norm, and so do I, and the Supreme Council's legal administration, regarding the court's challenge to the third party's response by specifying it on the electronic portal, the web portals of the Ukrainian judiciary, if, for example, its place of work is unknown or the location of the site is unknown. Colleagues, how many of you can actually point out the address of the Ukrainian court's web portal? We, well, not that we're not ready for such things, these things are unfortunately going to be abuse by the judiciary, to which trust has not yet been restored. So we need to move in this direction, we need to speak with certainty about the change in procedural legislation in Ukraine, but we need to do it in a normal legal way, we need to do it in a professional way, we need to have professional discussions, not run things through Parliament that don't conflict and just because there are no votes in the so-called coalition and because there is no trust in the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u120	Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. And so in two minutes, we're going to move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. The word is now given to Knjazevic Ruslan Petrovich, and then to the vote. Invite everyone into the hall. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u121	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, let me summarize a little bit of the discussion that I think was really fruitful, interesting and necessary, as follows. Well, first of all, as far as the discussion on form is concerned, I think it should be completed, because the only way out of the situation proposed by the committee is to resolve the issues that were discussed in the presentations of practically every reporter. What is it? We are indeed somewhat, as it were, limited in the consideration of procedural codes by the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, which, in the case of the inclusion of this bill as a whole in the agenda, provides, as our colleague Krulko correctly stated, that there should be a bill on the way out. This is not about how many bills are actually going to come out, but about how many are actually going to come out. We're proposing an option that's actually kind of creative in terms of regulatory procedures, but it's within the Rules, so at this stage of other proposals, it just can't be made, because all the rest of us, unfortunately, are rejected as such, can't be implemented. So the whole point of this proposal is simple: we suggest that the second reading of this law by separate sections should be properly written in new procedural codes with separate transitional and final positions. So this is going to be a few laws in a single bill. And a single bill will have transitional positions only as part of the validity of these bills and the procedural introduction of them into force. So we're going to have this novelty that's going to predict this kind of rocket launcher in the form of this bill, which, once it's passed, will give each of those laws that will be passed within this law. And that would be five laws, not just four, which were mentioned, because it's still the relevant Act amending the Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges. And here I want to support Alona Skrum, which, indeed, article 4 of the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges makes it impossible to amend the Law on the Status of Judges and Courts, except as the Law on Amendments to the Status of Judges and Justice, and therefore, in addition to laws, procedural codes and other laws related to them, these will be amendments to the Special Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges. With regard to issues that are controversial from the point of view of the court's rates, regarding the automatic arrest of funds, the status of international commercial arbitration, I do not see a barrier to the committee's consideration and preparation for second reading not finding a compromise formulation and a compromise solution to this issue, which will allow the adoption of legislation as a whole, without which we cannot fully initiate judicial reform in Ukraine. Now let's support this in the first reading, so let's keep moving, and the committee, for its part, is ready to open up this discussion on a committee platform involving all interested parties so that for the next week, for example, we can propose a model that will be acceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u122	Let's move on to making a decision, colleagues. Please take up your jobs. Please return to the workplace and prepare for the vote, for the decision. Colleagues who are liars! We've had a thorough professional discussion, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis, and now I'm going to put this proposal to the vote. Once again, I urge everyone to take up their jobs and enter the hall. And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Judiciality and other legislative acts (No. 6232) as a basis. Based on the base. Please vote against the proposals made by the head of the Committee of the Knazevitch under the transcript. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. 6232 on the ground, we vote! We will support the judicial reform, by the vote. [[12:16:34]] For 253 Decision taken. I want to do a productive job for my second reading. And I'm calling it a 30-minute break. At 12:45, everyone please come to the hall to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u123	Time taken for a break is exhausted. Let us move on to the following questions of the order of the day. And I would like to emphasise that we now have a block of financial policy. These questions are few, and there are five. But we need to, colleagues, try and look at it for lunch so that we can get to the information box. So I urge everyone to do disciplined and systematic work. And we're moving on to the first question of financial policy, the block of financial policy. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the protection of the rights of consumers of financial services (No. 2456-d). This is the second reading. It does not require a vote for a separate special procedure. And I invite you to the report of the Vice-President of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking of Demczak Ruslan Evgenovich. I want to make a point, it's re-reading the second reading. Please prepare the authors of the amendments for discussion. Please invite all the deputies to the hall. My colleagues, the author is not here yet. Here's the next question. Colleagues, as long as there is no author, will approach in five minutes, Ruslan Evgenovich will come along. As long as there is no author, the proposal from the committee to consider the next draft of the Law is 5361-d (deputy). Please come into the hall. Now either the author comes along or we go to the next bill while the author is gone. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is from the committee, the report has a deputy committee head Demczak Ruslan Evgenyovich. Don't yell, there won't be any money. So I'd like to invite the deputies to the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] So I invite you to the report by Demczak Ruslan Evgeniovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. Your opinion is proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislation on improving the protection of the rights of consumers of financial services (No. 2456). What I'd like to say is that this bill, it's a corollary of our already voted bill on the protection of the rights of consumers of financial services, and it's already entered into force. So the adoption of this bill in the second reading, it's a little late, it's very important that the basic bill on the protection of the rights of consumers of financial services can be effectively implemented and integrated into the economic life of our financial institutions and our population. There was an extra bill. 108 proposals were received by Ukrainian national deputies. Almost all the proposals were taken into account. I hope that today the minimum number of rights is going to be set for confirmation because only 17 rights are rejected. So we can go directly to the table right now and go through the drafting of Bill 2456-d in order to then go to his voting as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u125	Thank you. Please be prepared for discussion by the right-wing authors. I'll only read the changes that are rejected, please. But at any turn, any of the deputies can raise their hand and speak accordingly. The first of the negatives is the right number 13 of the Levchenka People's Deputies. It's Mr. Yuri, isn't it? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u126	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. We propose to add to the bill a clause on the completion of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine by the rules that introduce the institution to file a lawsuit in the interests of an undeclared circle of persons, so-called collective lawsuits. A collective lawsuit is a process of procedural co-operation aimed at uniting the uniform requirements of a numerical group of persons with legal consequences for them into a single conduct. The appellant represents the interests of a numerical group of persons who are not party to the case but have uniform requirements. And the number of such persons cannot be determined in advance, and for example, a bank or other financial institution is advertising so - called interest-free loans in an undetermined circle of financial services consumers. And this approach will ensure more effective protection of consumers' rights to financial services. The point is that, in most cases, all the violations committed by financial institutions involve a huge circle of individuals. And far more correctly and logically, this institution is in the entire progressive world, where large groups of people could file collective lawsuits, and better thus defend themselves, better in this way protect their rights from unscrupulous financial institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u127	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u128	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u129	Indeed, this amendment was considered by the committee, and it exists in some countries. Unfortunately, in Ukraine today it is impossible, and this is argued both by the Code of Lords and by the Civil Code, because there may be people in this group who will have individual terms of contract and who may be at odds with a common position. Sadly, this amendment was rejected by the committee. I think the author wants to bet on confirmation. We're ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u130	You insist on voting, don't you? I am voting on the amendment of the 13th People's Deputies of Lechchenk. Who supports this amendment, please vote? The committee turned her down. Please. [[12:59:50]] For-52 The decision is not taken. The next rejected amendment is 25 people's deputies, Kugel. He insists. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u131	Well, first of all, I want to point out that since that bill that we sent out for work, this bill has not been better. The requirements of article 16 of the Rules have been violated in preparing the law for the second reading. And also, for you and me as consumers, we exist there in one case -- as a customer, as a natural person, as a consumer of financial services, that doesn't make sense to the people who are in the form. But that's exactly the 25th amendment. I would like to point out that in this amendment, the drafters give the right, this is the committee headed by Mr. Fishballo of the Radical Party, they give the right to the authorities that regulate public financial services markets within their competence to establish additional mandatory requirements for financial services contracts. So a person makes a contract, is a typical but additional requirement, makes it worse for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u132	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u133	In the talk itself, there is an inadequacy that the additional requirements are getting worse. There's a typical agreement for a customer to which a customer can agree and disagree, and the regulator, if he thinks that he needs more requirements for a credit institution, he, we give him the right to further requirements for a credit institution, he, we give him the right and additional requirements for credit institutions, banks, credit unions to express. So we're giving you an opportunity to protect, not to reduce, but to protect further, so I think we should leave this edit the way it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u134	Alexandra, do you insist on voting? Yes. So whoever supports the amendment of the 25 people's deputies, Kugel, please vote, the committee rejected it. Please. [[13:02:24]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Next up, 29th National Deputy Ivchenka. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u135	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. My amendment refers specifically to the terms of the contract, and it is said that the terms of the contract for the consumer to propose a change in the terms of the contract, allowing for the date of departure and receipt of messages, as well as an increase in the interest rate, are important enough for the consumer to know clearly that it does not have a change in the interest rate throughout the operation of the contract. And with this amendment, I propose that any change is worthless and that it violates both the Civil Code and the Bill itself. So I'm asking you to support and support the consumer from unduly raising the interest rate of the banking institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u136	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u137	We rejected this amendment only because this rule is already included in the Civil Code in article 1056-1. So it's very good that the distinguished national MP has paid attention to this, but it's already settled, it's working and all the increases in the unilateral order of the credit institution for the individual, they're worthless and it's already a working norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u138	Do they insist on voting? So I'm voting on the 29th amendment of the national MP Ichchenka. Whoever supports it, please vote in favour, the committee has rejected it, please. [[13:04:19]] For-48 The decision is not taken. 32 revisions, Nedda. Don't insist. 48th, Yvchenka. He insists, doesn't he? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u139	Thank you. Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I thank you for having considered the previous two of my amendments by the committee, but, at the same time, I would like to stress once again the violation of article 116 of the Rules. This law has been greatly supplemented, this time. Second, the conditions for informing customers about the financial services are deteriorating compared to the first reading. And in general the first reading, it was much better prepared than the editing for the second reading. Instead of having to write a form of finustana, they'll be able to tell the customer, like, on the website. In addition, Finustana will not warn the customer or financial services can predict the risk of losing the investment. My colleagues, I do propose that this bill should be sent for further work, because it makes what was in the first reading much worse. And I'm asking you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u140	Thank you. Will you comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u141	Yes, I'll comment. In fact, the correctness was again related to group lawsuits and worthlessness if the interest rate rose. Again, this is regulated by the Code of Lords and the Civil Code in article 1056-1. That we do not agree with the deterioration, and we had a working group that listened to all the market’s wishes, including. So a bill is very necessary, which allows for the regulation of the consumer service market. So I'm very much asking you not to call this kind of attention and appeal to the substance of the bill and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u142	Thank you. So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 48 national MP Yvchenka. Whoever supports the amendment, please vote, the committee rejected it. [[13:06:45]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Here's the thing: a negative 54, Lechchenka, insists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u143	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. The bill complements the Financial Services and Public Market Regulation Act of Ukraine with the rules that give the authorities that regulate the financial services markets stately, a list of mandates to implement the protection of consumers' rights to financial services. This will, in fact, lead to fictitious or formal rather than real, unbiased controls on the part of market regulators of financial services for consumer rights. The point is, essentially, it is suggested that the regulators that regulate banks, banks, that is, the National Bank, the National Bank, the National Securities Commission, the National Securities Commission, banks and financial institutions, be given the power to protect consumers' rights. That's bullshit. Because it's a conflict of interest because they're working directly with banks, and they're protecting banks, and they're doing everything they can to make banks better rather than making consumers feel better. So this is an absurd thing, and I propose in my amendment that this task be based not on these organs, but on the central executive body that implements state policy in the area of state control over compliance with legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u144	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u145	This task is to rely on a central executive body that implements public policy in the field of State control over the enforcement of consumer rights legislation. Because it's about protecting consumers' rights. The authorities that work with financial institutions cannot adequately protect consumers' rights, this conflict of interest is direct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u146	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u147	Right now, it is, protecting the consumer protection community. And what do we see? We see that boards of zero percent for credit, we see a small font there, some postage in advertising, we see the inefficiency of working together to protect consumers' rights. So the basic concept of our bill is that we just brought the National Commission, which regulates financial markets, these are credit unions and credit institutions that are non-banking, and banks, these are the National Bank that are now bound to control. On the contrary, the National Bank says that it will not be overturned by complaints; it even opposes them. We conceptually set the problem in this bill, and we solved it. So I think we need to change the situation so that they change for the better. And it's important for regulators to protect investors, including those suppliers, because then there'll be a clear market. And you don't have to think that the National Bank, the Nacfin Service only protect banks and financial institutions are interested.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u148	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u149	They're interested in protecting, including consumers, because then the two sides, these are the two sides that make the deal, and the market works. So I don't think that this could be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u150	Thank you. But the author insists on the vote, and I'm putting 54 people's deputies to the vote. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[13:10:19]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Next, 70 of Ichchenka’s national deputies turned down. You insist, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u151	Thank you. Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, the law is called "To Improve Consumer Rights Protection." But unlike an editorially accepted financial institution, for example, it won't have to disclose to customers any commission, assembly, payments that come from the service. There's no change in the order in which consumer credit claims are settled, first it's a percentage, then it's a body, although "Paternity" has suggested otherwise. The right of regulators to impose additional mandatory requirements for financial services contracts is reserved. I don't see consumer rights in this law. Please do this to protect banking institutions and protect creditors, then it will be understandable and do not deceive society. I suggest you stand up for the law and stand up for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u152	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u153	Well, the comment is not essentially an amendment, if the author points out to put on confirmation, I don't think it needs to be supported and we move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u154	Thank you. So I'm betting on the vote of 70 of Ivchenka's national deputy. Whoever supports it, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[13:11:58]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Next up, 71, Lewchenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u155	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Paragraph 4 of paragraph 12 of the second section of the first bill requires amendments to part of the increase in the lower limit of sanctions for non-application at the request of the consumer of the draft financial service contract if such obligation is foreseen by legislation to increase the liability of banks. Today, this bill, in its first reading, proposes to impose fines ranging from 200 to 500 untaxed minimum citizens’ income for any such failure. I think 200 untaxed minimums for the bank are nothing at all, in principle, and 500 is nothing, in large numbers, well, but we suggest raising the bottom limit to at least 300 to be 300 to 500 to be a little bit more real. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u156	Will you comment? Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u157	Yes, I just want to say to Mr. Yuri that both these and other rejected amendments are taken into account, because both point two and three, they're included in point one, which provides for the customer's ignorance of the contract. And if there are no points in the contract, then there is a fine. So they're actually accounted for. What about the size of the fine, Mr. Yuri, we raised in the first paragraph, if you look at 300 untaxed minimums, as you wanted. That's not enough. We took out the fork. In order to remove the corruption component from 200 to 500, 300 non-taxable minimums are set. To avoid subjective approach and choice in control bodies, a minor fine is greater for someone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u158	Thank you. I'm voting on the amendment of 71 People's Deputies of Lechchenk. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. The committee made a statement against her. Please. [[13:14:14]] For-39 The decision is not taken. 73rd Amendment. Yvchenko. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u159	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. My colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that this law does not provide for collective actions to protect consumers' rights. Because in the financial sphere, or not, there are collective violations of their rights. And by the way, I want to say that there's also no provision for a finustina to make treaties that have already been made in accordance with existing legislation or with this voted law. My colleagues, once again, I want to say that the law doesn't match the name. It does not protect the interests of consumers today. It protects the interests of banks and banking institutions. Please have the right to support, and for the law to hold back or re-send for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u160	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u161	Again, a general comment. As far as group actions are concerned, I have already said that this is not currently provided for by the Civil Code and the Code of Masters, not only by these types of contracts, but also by others. So against this, we did not support this position. As for the amendment you're putting in for confirmation, once again, we've raised fines to 300 non-taxable minimums. I suggest we turn it down, support the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u162	Thank you. And I'm voting 73 people's deputies, Yvchenka. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[13:16:02]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Seventy-two, Levechenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u163	73rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u164	No, he wants the 72nd for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u165	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. I would like to make 72 amendments to confirm and call on the room not to support this amendment, because this amendment proposes to remove from the bill the notion of "consumer creditworthiness assessment" and appropriate fines for failing to carry out such creditworthiness assessment of the consumer. In fact, failure to assess consumer creditworthiness is one of the main causes of the 2008-2009 financial crisis that started in the United States and then developed worldwide when mortgage institutions issued mortgage loans to consumers without checking any to see if they could return this mortgage, pay it back, actually, and then the entire financial system of the United States collapsed and the whole world went after them. And it's not just the States, it's about any financial system. We need to check who's getting the loan so that this loan comes back. In the latter case, a soft bubble is formed when. Please add.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u166	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u167	In the reverse, there's just a nice bubble, where you see-see loans to people who can't return them, and eventually this pyramid collapses, so this thing can't be removed from the bill. So please place this amendment for confirmation and I urge the Hall not to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u168	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u169	If I didn't vote, we could say we're just going to put more butter on the top. Anyway, the bill will be working. But what about the creditworthiness test, the organizations, the self-regulatory lending organizations, they expressed this desire and said that it was impossible, physically impossible, to comply with this norm, it would be carried out formally. But anyway, whether we accept it or not, it doesn't change the bill. That's why I'm asking you to confirm the amendment. But we're going to look at the number of votes, the law that works anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u170	Thank you. So I'm betting on confirmation of the 72, and the committee is asking for this amendment to be supported. Please vote for the confirmation of 72 amendments. Let's vote, colleagues. The committee's asking for support. [[13:18:42]] For 109 The decision is not taken. 74th, Levenchenko. Is he insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u171	Thank you. 74 My amendment now makes sense, actually. Because it involved fines for failure to assess the consumer’s ability. That's the thing the committee ruled out. And now, after the correct revision was not confirmed, this estimate was returned. And accordingly, my amendment proposes to increase fines from 300 to 500 untaxed minimum. In the context of what the reporter said a few minutes ago, because the fines actually went up, but they took the fork, you didn't raise the fine. Taking the fork from 200 to 500, you cut the fines. Because instead of being the maximum fine of 400-500 untaxed minimums, you've only done one 300. And violations can be different. There may be different degrees, in fact, of the intention of that breach on the part of the financial institution. That's why "fork" is just the right thing to do. And unfortunately, you, by cleaning up this fork, have reduced essentially fines. If cleaned, you had to leave 500, not leave 300. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u172	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u173	Well, we have to count both sides. We're supposed to count, and you're talking about customers today, aren't you? And put in maximum fines? So if we're talking about approach, we're talking about it being a single fine, not from and before. What about your paper? It was 200 to 500, you're offering 300 to 600. I don't think that's a radical change. And once again, they're not going to change the bill on their own merits. If you think it's changing something, let's try to vote for your amendment. The committee didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u174	Thank you. I'm voting 74 people's deputies, Levchenk. Whoever supports it, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[13:20:52]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, there are five left-wings left, so in five or seven minutes, we're going to move on to the decision-making process and I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the room. 76th, Yvchenko. Is he insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, Yvchenko, the Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, here I am surprised by some of our factions that are so concerned about the people, and their committee, which is headed by their representative, is making such in fact lobbyist and anti-human laws that do not protect the rights of consumers. One more time, one more time. Violations of the requirements of the Rules, 116, where articles that were not discussed in the first reading are included. The other one. The conditions for informing customers about the fine services are getting worse. Third. Unlike an editorially accepted financial institution, it will not be obliged to disclose to customers information about commissions, congregations, and so forth. Four. There is no change in the frequency of repayment of the loan. Fifth. Additional mandatory requirements for financial services contracts will be given the opportunity to do so. And the sixth. Unforeseeable possibility of collective bargaining. Colleagues, what protection of consumer rights are we talking about? And those factions, I mean, don't worry about people, but work on the laws so they can really be about protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u176	Ten seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u177	So that the laws really fit the protection of every citizen, so that they feel protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u178	Please, Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u179	There's some kind of commotion between the Fatherland faction and the Radical Party. You know, let's essentially concentrate on the bill and take these transfers to the political plane. The bill was drafted with the participation of USAID, and the authors are all members of our committee, including from various factions. Please, let's take this policy away and professionally comply with financial laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u180	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote of 76 national MP Ivchenka. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[13:23:20]] For-69 Okay. Okay. The decision is not taken. 77th, Levechenko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u181	Thank you. First, I would like to ask the chairman to place on confirmation 75 of the amendment. The fact is that the 75 amendment proposes that the following paragraph be deleted from the bill: "the conclusion of a financial service contract does not, in writing, result in a personal fine ranging from 200 to 500 untaxed minimum citizens' income." And it's motivated by the fact that the financial services agreement in non-written form is worthless and so on, and the result is that the treaty is declared unconstitutional. But for such things, it is not simply a matter of admitting that the treaty is unconstitutional, but of fines for trying to do such things even. Therefore, I believe that this amendment cannot be taken into account in order to strengthen the control of the financial sector. So please place 75 amendments on the confirmation and do not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u182	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u183	As I've said before, we had such a rule that there is a fine for making a wrong contract that absorbs, including in writing, in writing all kinds, forms of breaches in this direction. So given that this is some private case that comes out of the first, I want to say that this is already taken into account, the fine has been approved and will be fined when the contract is concluded in accordance with the rules of this law, such financial institutions will be fined. No editing can be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u184	I'll bet you 75. It's a committee, after all. Mr. Ruslan, are you offering her support or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u185	We suggest not to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u186	Okay. 75 clearance for confirmation. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee says that there is no need for support. Vote. [[13:25:34]] For-53 The decision is not taken. 77th, Levechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u187	Thank you. Thank you for not supporting this wrong amendment. Given that this position is now being returned to the bill, please support my bill, which proposes to increase fines and, in fact, impose fines ranging from 300 to 500 untaxed minimums to make a financial service contract not in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u188	Thank you. Put it to a vote? Then I put to the vote the amendment of 77 of the People’s Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports it, please vote. The committee turned her down. Vote. [[13:26:31]] For-57 The decision is not taken. 86th, Lavrick. Don't insist. What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u189	85 for confirmation. Mr. Ruslan, you will be speaking or immediately put on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u190	Stand by for confirmation now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u191	I'll bet you 85 people's deputies at Doubenko's. The committee supports it and asks the hall to support it. Yeah? Please vote and support 85 revisions. [[13:27:16]] For 106 The decision is not taken. 87th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 88th, Levenchenko. He insists, yes. Please insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u192	Thank you. Levchenko "Freedom" 223 District of Kiev. First of all, thank you for not supporting 85 revisions, and I'm sorry you didn't give me the opportunity to explain why it can't be supported because. But the point was that it was proposed to exclude a fine from the bill for not reporting to the consumer’s financial service provider that the obligation to provide financial services was waived when the obligation to do so was established by law. Considering that this was rejected. Now it is appropriate to insist on my amendment number 88, which proposes to increase the fines for this violation and to set the amount of 300 to 500 untaxed minimums. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u193	I'll take the vote on the amendment. Remind me, '88, right? 88th People's Deputy Levchenka. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote, committee against, please vote. [[13:28:40]] For-68 The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, the last amendment of the 90 national MP Ichchenka. Are you insisting? No, he doesn't insist on 90 to the right. And now the 91st. Wait. 89th for confirmation. I'm betting on the approval of Amendment 89, and the committee supports it and asks for support. Please vote for the 89th amendment, please. [[13:29:30.]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Now turn on the mic for Yatzenk. And, colleagues, in two minutes we're going to the vote, I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. Please, Yatzenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u194	My dear head, my dear fellows! This law can be supported, but provided that there are no two lines 26 and 27. I ask them to be confirmed, because number 26 implies that there are such written formulas for making a paper-based financial service contract, in the form of an electronic document, and by joining a client into a contract that can be made available to him in the form of an electronic document on an official website, a website of a financial institution. That is, if the agency proves that the contract has been sent to the client, such an agreement will testify to its conclusion, and this could lead to major abuses. And on the 27th. It is worth noting here that one of the pieces of the bill regulates the obligation to announce changes in interest rates at deposits, commissions, different congregations, by sending messages or by e-mailing to the customer's personal mailbox. These situations will also lead to large - scale violations. So I'm going to ask you to put number 26 and number 27 on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u195	So 26 and 27 are valid for confirmation. Yeah? I'll put them on a separate ballot. Please, Mr. Ruslan, explain the point of those lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u196	Nevertheless, I would like to ask for support and leave this right here, which allows us to move on more progressively right now, and now the information technology is moving forward and we can't go any further than that. And in this case, 26 and 27 revisions allow it to conclude a contract, it will be in writing, but it will be signed not only by classical signature, but by electronic digital signature. It's generated and then transmitted by email to a customer, and it can print it. This makes it possible to significantly increase communication and to be more modern in contracts such as consumer lending. So I would ask the room to vote in favour of the first 26th and the 27th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u197	So I'm going to put these two approvals on and we're going to make a decision. So once again, I urge everyone to enter the hall and take up jobs. I'm betting on confirmation of number 26. The committee asked her to support her, and the committee at its meeting supported her. Please vote in favour of Amendment 26, please vote. The committee's asking for support, please vote. This is Demchak's edit. [[13:32:57]] For-166 164, no. 166, no decision taken. The next 27 amendments, Demczak, the committee supported her and the committee asked her to support her. I'm putting 27 votes to the vote for confirmation. Please vote, please support her. [[13:33:29]] For-166 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, this is how we move on to making decisions. I give the floor to Ruslan Evgenievich's closing statement and ask everyone to come into the hall, and we will now make a decision. Please, Ruslan Evgeniovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u198	Dear colleagues! Regardless of the political battalions that have been on this sort of professional, purely financial bill, I want to inspire everyone and say that this is a bill that integrates European directives. That's the first one. Second, it was developed with the help of USAID, an international organization, and it was passed through the sieve of our market of self-regulatory organizations that gave their specific rights. In addition, along with the bill, 2455, which was adopted long ago, is the Law on Consumer Credit and signed by the President. And without this bill, it can't work fully, because this bill, the first draft we passed, 2455, it integrates it into other legislation, into other laws that come with it. So I'm asking you to drop all your political claims now, focus on professionalism, constructiveism and vote. As far as we've consulted before with each faction, everyone supports it. So let's vote and support the financial market.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u199	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u200	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u201	Oh, ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u202	This will allow you to resume lending. Credit, starting with credit, is widely used to credit apartments. Notice, do not take this very superficially because people are waiting for a settlement.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u203	Thank you. So I am voting on the draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to improve the protection of the rights of consumers of financial services (No. 2456 - MP). According to the committee’s decision, I place it in a second reading and in general. Colleagues, please vote, please support. It seems that we've come up with a compromise that should find support in the hall. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:36:21]] For-198 Colleagues, we have a second option again, let's consult. Colleagues, we proposed this bill, and we invested an hour in it. We've been investing in him for an hour. Please, because the Committee on Financial Policy, headed by Sergey Rybalka, has put your faction first on its block. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, let's see if you can advise me, Ruslan, to put the second one on again now or come back again. Let me put it back once, if we see if there are no votes, then I'll put the second one back. But then I will ask you to back up the second. Colleagues! Colleagues, Yvchenka, will you support the second one again? Do you support the second? You'll be fine. Now I'm going to put the vote back on the committee's proposal, if there are no votes, I'm going to put the second one back. So please prepare for the vote. I propose to return to the vote in 2456 to vote in general, to return to the proposal to vote in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Should we support the committee? Please vote, vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[13:38:18]] For 196 No voices, no colleagues, no. Then I ask everyone to concentrate and support the proposal: to read again so that we don't lose the bill, I have a request to all factions to back up the second reading. Ready to vote? I am voting on a proposal for a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the protection of the rights of consumers of financial services (2456) to return to the Committee for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u204	It's the second time again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u205	It could be twice, Oleg Valeriyovich, twice. So this is what it sounds like: turning the committee back to work with the next application for second reading. This rule is the only rule that I have just read: to return the committee to work with the next submission for the second reading. Please support and please vote. Vote, colleagues, please. Let's make sure we don't lose the bill. [[13:39:44]] For 218. Give it to me. Fellows, I'm going to put the second one again, so we don't lose the bill. We promised to vote, we promised to support it together. It's actually up to the first reading, it's actually back to the first reading. Colleagues, please, I will not give you my word, I have the only rule provided for by the Rules. I have no other norm, as provided for by the Rules, but there is only such a norm; no other norm can I put to the vote. Please take up your jobs, colleagues. We didn't have enough votes. Don't leave the hall! On the contrary, come into the hall. Colleagues, I'm going to make another suggestion: 2456 return to the committee for further work, and then return to the second reading. Let's support it, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Let's vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Each voice has a weight and has a meaning. Please. [[13:41:00]] For 218. Colleagues! Colleagues, please, let's all go into the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, we've convinced ourselves that we can do twice the second time, colleagues. We can. There was a misunderstanding with the Rules. Some felt that no second reading could be repeated. Yes, you can! And I think that's the right thing to do. Please, let's take a seat, vote. Colleagues, I'm asking you to focus. It'll be right, it's respect for the committee, for our colleagues. I'll put, first, I'll go back and then I'll put the second one back. Okay? Come on, colleagues, gourmet. I'm voting on the first proposal to go back to voting for Bill 2456-d. Please be supportive. Please come back. Colleagues, every voice. Vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. And then I'll do it again. [[13:42:44]] For 226 We're back. Now let's do the second one again. And I'll remind you that you promised to vote. I'm being honest, let's be honest together. I'm putting draft Law 2456-d to return the committee to work with the next application for second reading. Please support and please vote. Vote, fellows! If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Every voice! Please. [[13:43:22]] For 227 Decision taken. Honestly, it's okay, guys. That's the way it's supposed to be in the hall. Colleagues, look, I'll explain to you the logic of the next bill. Colleagues, please pay attention! We have a bill on regulated markets and derivatives. There's a huge number of rights to it, but both the committee and all the co-authors agree that it needs to be re-readed. And the committee proposed a decree not to go to all rights, to propose a decree to re-read the draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on regulated markets and derivatives. What does this decree give us? It allows the committee to go over the re-second reading without losing an hour and a half in the room to consider these amendments, or maybe more. Let's support it, it'll be the right thing to do. And come on, fellows, let me do it. We're moving on to his consideration, he's next in line, we'll discuss him, of course. Of course, like every bill. All I have to do is ask that we discuss it in a simplified manner. And I would like to put to the vote the proposal to discuss draft regulation 3498/P1 with a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Please support the reduced procedure. [[13:45:04]] For 178. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Financial Policy Demczak Ruslan Evgeniovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u206	Dear colleagues! We just spent an hour and went out for a second read. It is suggested that we do not waste half our working day. Because here, in this bill, 748 rights. And imagine how much it could be, there could be all kinds of statements about political preferences. So, taking into account what was adopted by us in Bill 2302-d of the 28.04th, a large number of important positions that overlap with Bill 3498. Therefore, our Committee, in accordance with the Rules of Article 123 to Part One, paragraph 5, requests that we support the Committee's recommendation that the draft draft be redrafted 3498 and that the second reading be resubmitted. This procedure will allow the necessary clarifications to be made to the drafting of the bill when preparing the bill for re-reading with a view to improving it. In particular, remove parts of the text that are already in force, as well as consider other proposals from the national deputies of Ukraine. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u207	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Lavrick Oleg Vasilovich, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u208	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help Union. Dear colleagues! In this decree, we go back to the issues that we discussed several times in Bill 3498. So there's no such thing as a law that regulates a bill that tries to regulate the market mechanisms of stock market derivatives, we've written a question about a regulator. So let's support the decision. We're sending the bill back to read again. In the committee, we exclude all positions relating to the regulator's issues. And the regulator's question is put into a separate bill. And then we communicate with the commission, we communicate with associations, we communicate with the market. We define questions about the controller’s activity. Self-help will support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u209	Thank you. Please, Rizanenko Pavel Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u210	National MP Rizanenko, head of the Securities and Stock Market Subcommittee. The bill deals with the regulation of circulation and the trade in securities, a type of securities such as derivatives. The bill also contains provisions that regulate the activities of commodity markets. But, as was rightly pointed out by colleagues during the committee meeting and during the discussion, very many rights were given to the second reading and not all of them applied solely to the settlement of derivatives and commodity markets. It was the committee's decision to propose to the Supreme Council to send the law to read again in order to bring about the differences that have arisen in the committee, to take into account the suggestions of the right ones that relate to derivatives and commodity markets themselves. Therefore, it is suggested that the decision be supported. The Solidarity faction will support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u211	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Gusak Vladimir Georgievovich, from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, dear Head! An increase in the standard of living of Ukrainians is not possible without economic growth. And economic growth is impossible without investment. And investment requires developed financial markets. Developed financial markets should have the widest possible choice of financial instruments. And one such tool is derivatives (derived financial instruments), which are instruments that depend on the cost of other assets or other financial instruments. By the way, in the world the volume of derivatives is the largest, it's estimated at about 600 to 700 trillion dollars. By comparison, the total cost of shares in the world is estimated at about $70 trillion, and the total cost of all the gold in the world is about 7 trillion. Unfortunately, there is still no comprehensive derivative market regulation in Ukraine, no appropriate terminology, and there is no mechanism to guarantee commitments. And this bill is trying at least partially to address these problems. Regrettably, this bill is an ineffective witness to the ineffective organization of Parliament's work. Dear colleagues, it's not a matter of many rights. The bill was adopted in the first reading on March 31, 2016, and on June 14, the committee prepared a second reading. But for more than a year, the bill has not been considered, and so, of course, other laws have been passed that contain conflicting norms and really need to be removed. But the issue of Ukrainian economic access to financial markets for. May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u213	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u214	But the issue of access to the Ukrainian economy, of Ukrainian businesses to financial markets, remains relevant. And that's why we support this bill for re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u215	Thank you. And, colleagues, there will be a closing statement by Alexandra Kugel. Then we go to the vote. So please invite everyone to the hall and prepare for the decision. Please, Mrs. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u216	I want to ask the regulatory committee to look at the work of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking. Look, in two and a half years, how many bills are passed that we keep returning to read again. Do you know why? Because it's only about banking and financial institutions. There are no us in every bill, no Ukrainian citizens. I want to give you an example that when the "Fatherland" faction of a year ago introduced a bill that banned banks and the "Largeness" from taking extra money from citizens for counting municipal services, I was on this committee, and he didn't support it, because it's their money, they own banks. I mean, that's the bill we're considering, but they're not introducing our bill. This bill is not just for second reading, it should not be voted on and sent, and a normal bill should be passed. Because unfortunately, Demczak is being sent back to read again, he's going to re-read the same line again. It's a bad practice, and that's why Fatherland won't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u217	So we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Come into the hall. And I am voting on the draft Ordinance on Re-reading the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on regulated markets and derivatives (No. 3498/P1) to return to the second reading. My colleagues, have you all understood the point? It's a time economy so the committee can redraft the Derivatives Act. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues, 3498/P1 return to second reading. Vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[13:53:53]] For-200 Well, colleagues, that means we're going to have to spend the day south or the day on checks. I, my fellow Members, will now return, if the vote does not change, then the decision will be rejected. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. I'll be right back. All right. I can't hear anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m0.u218	So called, I have called many times, Lord. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take your jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to Project Order (3498). Please vote, please support. Colleagues, please support. Vote. [[13:55:02]] For 207 207. There are not enough votes. Project Regulation 3498/P1 was rejected. Colleagues, now we have five minutes, I suggest, we have a block of inclusion in the agenda of the session, at least a few laws to include. Colleagues, attention, attention! We can put them up again after lunch. Let's see how the vote goes, if it doesn't go, we can put it up after lunch. "Inclusion into the agenda of the day session" can be included in the same number of times. Come on, guys, we've got five more minutes to work. And I'm moving on, and I'm announcing for the first time the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Third Additional Protocol and the Fourth Additional Protocol to the European Convention on the Extradition of Offenders (No. 6149). Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote, please support. It's just getting into the order of the day session, please support me, colleagues. [[13:56:35]] For 193 I'll do it again after lunch. Colleagues, everyone's backing up now. Attention! Attention, we have work hours, colleagues! I now put to the vote the day-to-day bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the activities of higher education institutions in the areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. I think the whole room supports this, and I think this vote is going to be important and a sign for everyone. Please take up jobs, this is just a day session on the activities of higher education institutions in Donetské and Lugansk regions (6548). So please prepare for the vote. And I'm going to propose to include in the agenda of the day session, I'm going to announce once again the draft law amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on higher education in the area of Donetsk and Lugansk regions (number 6548). Please vote, please support only the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, but so that we can look at it this week. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support all this law, which supports all factions, please. [[13:58:05]] For 204 Not all factions support, not all of them. So, colleagues, the time of the morning session is running out, and I have yet to read the announcement that came to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, in accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Law on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union for the Development of the Rivers of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Vadatur Andrija Alexiyovich, was elected head of this association. Let's welcome our colleague. And I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 4 p.m., I'm inviting everyone into the conference room to continue their work. We will continue to consider the issues of the financial bloc. Thank you.
