ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. Are you ready for your registration? Dear colleagues, I'd like you to conduct an enrollment. Please. [[10:05:36]] 334 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the national deputies John Ivanovich Baloga. Let's welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] And Igora Viktorovich Lucenka. And, colleagues, I've been approached by two factions for a break. But this time, today, we were able to convince the audience not to interrupt, but to speak from the rostrum. And this is the faction of Peter Dustenk and the People's Front. Am I giving my word to whom? It's Polack's, isn't it? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! Today, the People's Front faction wants to inform you of information that has become known. This is the fact that the land of the Kyiv region is being looted. This is the district of Obukhiv, the village of Kozin, where 125 acres [125 ha] of land was stolen. The looting was done by known criminals, and now it's high-ranking, and at the time it's the prosecutor of the Kyiv region, Mr. Haisinsky and the head of the investigation, Mr. Sitnik. These two individuals were involved in the ownership of 125 acres [125 ha] of land. In 2008, there was an incident when the criminal case of the Kyiv region, namely, Prosecutor Haisinsky, was violated, and then Roshitzer, who was formed in the land, was killed. Heisinsky is released from the Kyiv procurator’s office and becomes the owner of the land. After that, the investigation into the murder of the Rožić leads to the Sitnik, ending with the fact that it was not a murder, it was a suicide, and then he was released and became the managing partner of the company Haysinsky and Sitnik. We demand to investigate a criminal case. The Attorney General must report information on the investigation of this criminal case. The cost of land is $500 million! Then we go to the Ministry. The Ministry of Internal Affairs will register the conduct of Mr. Rozwicz’s murder and investigate how today’s high - ranking man, in which hands of elbows in blood, can lead the organization. And the next. Last week a report on corruption for conflict of interest was written to the Tiny. But on the same day, Mrs. Korczak is being questioned to provide information about a parking lot. We demand that we do not exert pressure on NAZC, investigate the facts of corruption, remove Sitnik at the time of the investigation, and publicly investigate the crimes with all the press.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u3	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, in a plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are taking part in a government meeting led by Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman of Ukraine. Hello. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take this moment seriously. Please welcome our government. Please. [[Applause]] Thank you. Thank you. In accordance with the Rules, we give first two speeches for ministers who were appointed, this is Paul Dmitrovitch Petrenko, then Ostap Mikhajlovich Semerak, and after that half an hour, questions from the National Deputies. So let's start the "hour request to the government." And I invite you to speak with the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Mr. Dmitrovich Petrenko. Dear colleagues, please let the Minister of Justice go. Mr. Paul, you did it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u4	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today, I want to raise a very important topic that concerns millions of Ukrainians, millions of Ukrainian citizens, and Ukrainian children. Children are our future. A country that does not care for children does not care about its future and does not have that future. Today, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian children raised in single - parent families suffer from parental irresponsibility and lack of financial support. Sadly, this has become normal when a parent who does not live with a child forgets about his or her maintenance and upbringing. The numbers are amazing. Today, more than 600,000 executives are in the justice system against those who avoid alimony payments. These are 600,000 children who have lost their normal lives without the right to a future and full custody of both parents. And some of the real stories in general are shocked by their irresponsibility and inhumanity. Literally yesterday, here in the walls of the Supreme Council, we had a public discussion of a new bill to strengthen the responsibility of alimony payers. And one woman told her story that her ex - husband, because of revenge, decided to move her out of the apartment with three children. He used the aunt and threw her out on the street. And unfortunately, it's statistics, too, when people don't just pay alimony, and they actually abuse children because of their bills. A world - famous Italian educator, Maria Montessori, said that the child’s faith in himself and his love for the world depended on adults. In order to raise an honest and well-educated citizen, we adults have to provide children with all the necessary, as much as possible, parental love and proper parenting and maintenance. We have to change this situation when almost 3 million children get alimony, and 600,000 are actually hostages of the abuse of certain irresponsible parents, mostly men who are called men in these situations just by wearing pants. There are no foreign children. Thus, the Ministry of Justice, together with the national MPs who have united on the subject, has developed changes to legislation that envisions strengthening children’s rights and protecting them from virtually economic violence by those parents who are evading their responsibilities. I want to bring to you, honourable national MPs, a series of money that we propose to vote for the next sessional weeks that will prompt such unscrupulous parents to mention that they have children. The first money we offer is a clear ban on going abroad for those people who have been viciously avoiding alimony payments for more than six months. You don't pay alimony, you don't have to go abroad for vacations, you don't have to go to islands, you don't have to spend money on anything. The other one. The suggestion that parents who avoid alimony be able to manipulate others from their parents by agreeing to go abroad with those who conscientiously perform their duties. And there's such a sad statistic when moms are forced to withdraw from court justice because a father who doesn't pay alimony is also blackmailing: you want to go with a child to sea, don't put me in court, and then I'll give you permission to go abroad for a week at sea. We suggest that such a standard would allow a mother who lives with a child, not to be a hostage of blackmail, but to go on treatment and rest with such a child for up to one month. Similarly, we clean up a number of privileges for those who do not pay alimony. You don't pay alimony, you don't have the right to drive, you don't pay alimony, you don't have the right to hunt weapons, you don't pay alimony, you don't have the right to hunt. Another money we're offering is doing community service. There are such vicious alimony payers who are very, very poor and unemployed, and they make things up to their relatives or to their own companies. We suggest that someone who doesn't pay alimony for more than 12 months, the court's decision, be involved in community service, and there's a lot of these: street cleaning, house painting, cemetery cleaning. The crowd has budgets to do that, and this money, which will be made by such a sad parent, by cleaning up the cemeteries, will be sent to the child's account to pay off the alimony debt. We suggest that such works be applied by the court for up to two months before the alimony debt is repaid. Similarly, we offer the opportunity for mothers who file lawsuits, not to pay court fees, and advance payments. Because it's cynicism when a mother who's looking for the last 100 bracelets of food for a child is also forced to pay these costs for the trial. And the last. We also propose that criminal responsibility be increased for parents who don't pay alimony once, blackmailing their children maliciously or taking away their homes, or blackmailing them through certain economic incentives. Dear friends, in fact, of other people's children, there really isn't. And our task with you isn't just to adopt this law, it's going to have an impact, I'm deeply convinced, and a lot of kids are going to get extra money, we need to change the mentality and the social approach to a problem like violence against children, like, in fact, economic violence. This year, at the end of this month, the whole world will celebrate 15 days of Stop Domestic Violence. And I propose to the Ukrainian Parliament to unite and adopt a series of laws that will protect children, women from all forms of violence. According to sad statistics, more than 100,000 women and children are victims of such domestic violence each year, and this has been silenced because it is not convenient, enjoyable, and embarrassing to talk about. I believe that we, Ukrainian deputies and Ukrainian ministers, and Ukrainian real men, are to unite and not allow such shameful acts to occur when some think that he has made a child and that he has done his duty to himself. No, you have been responsible for your child your whole life, no matter how much you dislike your ex - wife. Dear friends, I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to appoint a separate unit next week to adopt a series of laws, to protect human rights and children's rights, first and foremost. So we can do it on Thursday. And there's a number of drafts that are ready for second reading, and the law that I've just passed is supported by almost 50 people's deputies, faction leaders, private people's deputies. I want to thank Irina Lucenko, Svetlani Wojciekhowski, Olenci Kondratuk and many of those deputies who are indifferent to the faction leaders for raising this question. As the minister of justice, I promise that we are taking all measures to motivate such individuals who have forgotten that they are parents to do their duty. And together we're going to get together and we're just going to make it uncomfortable and not a good situation when a father who doesn't pay alimony can walk and look his friends in the eye. Because another money made by the Ministry of Justice is a public register of malicious alimony payers on the Ministry’s website. So that everyone knows who will save their child, who will not give him normal parenting, and how to maintain him. Dear friends, please support this important initiative. Please gather and vote on these bills as a whole so that they can start working from the following month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we thank Mr. Petrenko, who saved time to ask questions from national deputies. And now he has the floor to speak to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ostap Semerak. Mr. Ostap, we invite you to the show, you have 15 minutes. And then the MPs will be able to ask questions not only to the interview ministers, but also to all members of the government. And I would like to listen more carefully to our distinguished ministers, because the subject is being discussed extremely important. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u6	Thank you, Irina Volodymyrno. Good afternoon, national deputies! The issue that we want to present today is very important, because the accumulation of waste from consumption production is one of the key threats to Ukraine's environmental safety. In our country, the amount of waste is increasing, and the area of unsanctioned landfills is spreading. Chemical, metallurgical, coal - mining industries, infrastructure, and agriculture are the most exerted on the environment. These economic sectors are very slow to re-use waste. About 10 tons of waste per person in Ukraine is produced each year. By comparison, 5 tons is for every citizen in the European Union. In fact, this indicator is shocking. The percentage of waste disposal and disposal is virtually zero. Approximately 36 billion tons of waste was stockpiled in Ukraine. That's over 50,000 tons per square mile of our country's territory. Such official data, but in reality the real state of affairs is probably worse. Only 30 percent of industrial waste is disposed of, and only 4 percent of household waste is disposed of. The situation of hazardous wastes is worsening, with more than 1.5 billion tons already accumulated, an out - of - date pesticide situation. The state reacts. Or a state reaction. Waste management has repeatedly been the subject of consideration by the LLDCs, but further findings on the threat of environmental safety and public health have not moved the matter. This week, the Ukrainian government approved the National Waste Management Strategy. This is the first non-segmentary document in independence times. The Ministry of Nature has been working on this document for over a year, and I am grateful to my colleagues from the government and our partners from the European Bank for Reconstruction, Development and the German agency GIZ for working together. I wanted to point out that the document went through all stages of discussion with the public and experts, received support from business associations and committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The strategy is a comprehensive document until 2030. Today, there is a model of natural resource extraction, production, consumption, and waste generation. By 2019 the European Union will be moving to an economy of a closed cycle, which is the basis of a sustainable development strategy. In implementing the Association Agreement, Ukraine should move on to the same model, but there is. which is the first basic principle of the waste management strategy approved by the Ukrainian Government, it requires extensive technological modernization, re-awakening of consciousness and denial of consumer attitudes towards natural resources. The extended responsibility of the manufacturer is the following basic principle in the strategy. Its implementation will encourage business to minimize waste generation and its interest in processing. The third main principle of the strategy is the conduct of a five - degree hierarchy of waste management that operates in the European Union. Its priority is to prevent waste generation, and the least acceptable option is to bury it. And then I'm going to stop at more detail on the principles of the actual realization of this hierarchy. Waste prevention is achieved through the adoption of a new legal framework and requirements for ecodesign consumption, the introduction of cleaner production technologies in the Ukrainian economy and the application of better European waste management practices. The implementation of these tools will reduce the use of raw materials from 90 percent to 70 percent. Preparations for reuse of waste are introduced in stages. The chart shows how realistic it is to reach 2030. For example, it's a separate collection of waste that's capable of being processed as a minimum of 5,000 inhabited sites, and it's the creation of 250 waste collection centers. The strategy involves waste processing indicators. By 2030, it's 800 powerful. new power from secondary raw material processing, recycling and composting of bio-waste. Thus, up to 20 percent will increase the amount of waste to be processed. I'll stop at industrial waste separately. To work with them, we propose the creation of funds. They will be managed by district government administrations, local self-governance authorities, and they will be filled by industrial waste management entities that do not have environmentally sound technologies to process and dispose of them. This is the implementation of the European polluter pays principle when a state as a regulator stimulates business towards environmental modernisation. For other types of disposal there is the construction of 20 stationary capacity from the preparation of waste to thermal recovery. This will result in an increase in utilization volumes of up to 10 percent. It will be possible to use biomass waste to produce energy, plant waste for food production, and composting plant and animal waste. The strategy also foresees a reduction in the number of disposal sites for solid household waste. It is projected to reduce the total amount of waste disposal from now 95 percent to 30 percent. The reduction in the total amount of waste to be disposed of is from 50 percent to 35 percent. There is a network of 50 regional polygons that will meet the requirements of 31 European Union Directives. To ensure monitoring and control of waste, the Strategy foresees the creation of an information system that includes. whether to include information about the nomenclature and the amount of waste generated, processed, disposed of and disposed of. They will also be published by the owners who provide such services. An important control tool is the creation of a national register of sources of waste, capacity in the field of handling them, and a system of reporting by operators. The strategy consists of 7 chapters, identifying waste from groups: solid, household, industrial, construction, agricultural, dangerous, and individual groups, such as electrical, electronic, medical, battery, and battery systems. In the management of household waste, we suggest that we set up a separate collection, identify optimal areas for the location of regional garbage loading stations, garbage sorting lines, garbage processing plants, and fields, and so on. This requires the building of such a network at the expense of local governments and, ultimately, the initiative of local governments. They should set up a collection system for reuse of furniture, household equipment, clothing, and other items that have been used. In dealing with industrial wastes, the Strategy introduces the use of clean manufacturing and technology and the creation of centres that will provide the necessary technical, consulting, and information support. We consider it necessary to create a financial guarantee mechanism for the closure, recuperation and further care of such polygons. In the area of construction, we prefer the practice of selective demolition of buildings and buildings, improving methods of disposal and further processing of materials, providing conditions for the production and disposal of materials from processed building waste. This will encourage the creation of a new market for the use of processed building materials and will also create new jobs in the Ukrainian economy. The strategy provides for the definition of technical requirements for the complete cycle of hazardous waste operations, the establishment of an effective waste tracking system to the end of disposal and online reporting on hazardous waste operations. The strategy also foresees the introduction of a single licence for the entire cycle of hazardous waste operations and the application of re-licensing checks that will require some changes to Ukrainian legislation. The priority in dealing with agricultural waste is to convert waste into energy, feed, and composting. Particular attention is paid to cleaning and rehabilitating polluted land with unfit pesticides and other chemical plant protection products. The successful implementation of the strategy's tasks cannot be achieved without an effective information and education campaign that needs to change the Ukrainian attitude towards the environment and behaviour with resources and waste. I am convinced that our partners are all authorities and leaders in promoting these European principles. In particular, we look forward to supporting the Ukrainian Parliament in implementing the National Waste Management Strategy, which is approved by the Government. The implementation of the strategy requires not only the political will of society but also the preparation of new management personnel. Here we especially rely on partnership with the Ministry of Education and Science and with my colleague, Lilia Greenevich. Undoubtedly, the approval of the National Waste Management Strategy will be and the implementation of the waste management strategy will be evidence of Ukraine's willingness to adopt and implement the European standards of thinking and life. Thank you, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u7	Thank you, Ostap Mikhailovich. And, colleagues, we are now moving on to questions from the national MPs. I remind you, this question is not from factions, but from national MPs. And so if the faction doesn't go into the record, it doesn't mean that it's given a separate word. So whoever wants to ask a question to the government or the minister, please prepare for the recording. Is there a willingness on the part of the people's deputies? Please prepare and record. Let's go. Please give the first word for the question. Papiev Mikhailo gives Igor Shurma the word. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u8	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Vladimir Borisovich, I have a question for you. In this session room, you made a promise to the labor team of the Lviv district perinatal center that by December the funds would be allocated and that the institution would be upgraded. The team thanks you for your participation and your arrival. But the work is done in only one medical and administrative unit. And in the second treatment unit, where there are beds, no one does anything. I'm not even talking about infrastructure anymore. There are reports of a perinatal centre opening this year. The team is asking you to intervene in this situation and not allow only parts of it to be declared open. Because this is actually going to destroy this center. And one more thing. Vladimir Borisovich, to make this a question not only an answer, I'm going to give you the address of the labour force to respond to and take personal control. And one more request: don't give a word to the Ministry. Since then, no one has come from them to your assignment and has absolutely no control over the course.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u9	Good afternoon, Mr. Head. Thank you, Igor Mikhailovich, for asking. In fact, I promised to help complete the construction of the perinatal center in Lviv, and I was approached by Oxana Jurinec. And on my trip, I was in Lviv, Lviv, and I looked at the unfinished object and promised it, to help finish it. And everything I promise, I'm always used to doing. Forty - five million dollars were allocated for the construction. Construction is now going to take place, and there's going to be a question about hardware, and it's going to need more funding. Just the other day, I had the head of the Lviv district district administration, and we discussed it. And now I'm looking for the opportunity to move on to the second stage, the second promise is to find the money to finance the equipment. So we've highlighted all the things that the district government has been talking about. Thank you. And I keep my promises.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u10	Thank you. National MP Vojtsicka Victoria Mikhailovna gives the floor to Sissyenko Irina’s question. From the rostrum. Please turn on the microphone on on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, a respected government, I have once again called attention to the immediate solution by the state of the problem in Smila, namely the hospital. For 11 months, doctors are waiting for a salary. And I think it's unacceptable to abuse people in the sacred profession for so long, because it's the medical profession that makes doctors depend on the physical existence of our citizens. So I demand that the state immediately fulfil its obligation to pay the salary to the medical staff of Smila Medical Institute No.14. And I also point out to the government that the law that is medical reform has no bearing on this situation of indebtedness to medical workers. This is solely the responsibility of the government in that the state budget of Ukraine has to put physical costs in place to pay for the work of medical workers. If the very best laws are passed in this room, but they will not be implemented and will not simply be funded by the basic health care system, so to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u12	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u13	so there will be no way to comply with those laws that are passed in the hall. So I demand that the government pay off the debt to a medical facility in Smylie, and I also immediately resolve the issue of the debt of medical salaries throughout Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u14	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u15	Thank you, madame national MP. I'd like to say a few things on this point so that we don't have unreliable information. No money is owed to the hospital’s doctors by the government. That's the first question. If they owed it, they'd have solved it at the beginning. The question is what. Within the framework of existing legislation, which was adopted several years ago, it was accepted that these specialized clinics were transferred to local budgets. This country has taken these clinics, these medical facilities, into its budgets and finances today. But it turned out that the city of Smila had made a completely different decision: Do not take them to your home. It's your own budget. And so they lost the status of a state institution, and they weren't admitted to a local institution. This is a matter of responsibility for local authorities. And now that they've had 11 months of finger-to-finger beatings about taking this hospital and giving people normal health care, and paying doctors the wages the government pays for, and subsidies, in this case, I have to intervene and support, and help, support people and help people. Give away the idleness that is at the local level. And that's why I thank you for your request. We're now working on getting this facility back into state property, paying money to people we don't owe, and I'm stressing it again. We will continue to ask questions about the transfer to Smyrna, as is the law in force. I've already given this assignment, we're working on it right now, it's a difficult legislative situation to do. But in parallel, I'm going to go to the U.K. Attorney General's Office to conduct an investigation into who led to the creation of a payroll owed to these doctors, the people. People are not to blame. And I would like the local authorities, who are involved, every official, to bear all the responsibility, including the criminal one. Because not paying people's wages is a crime, and it's a crime that everyone should be punished for. And where in places where someone owes 3 million, 5 million, I want to emphasize that it's all landlessness. Ask questions, there'll be subsidies, and you'll get subsidies if there's any problems. We don't have a problem with that. So thank you for your attention. I ask with understanding to address this matter. I'm sorry that you spent the whole night here, but it didn't affect my understanding that I should help people, and I told you about it yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u16	Thank you. So the government sees the solution. And we all need to work together so that we can work together to make it work together. And I'm sure. Please, one more minute, Vladimir Borisovich Groisman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u17	And I didn't say one more thing, colleagues. Right now, Deputy Prime Minister Zubko is informing me too, and I just missed it. The same position in the city of Smila and at the beginning of the heating season. Same problem. The local authorities didn't pay anyone anything either, and the people in the hostages. I mean, I think it's a matter of dealing with law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u18	Thank you. So we're going to work together to track the process. And I'm sure we can make the right decision. And now I give the floor to Kishkaru's question. Passes the word "Bird" to the bird. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u19	Victoria Bird, non-freakable. I have a question for the distinguished Prime Minister concerning the town of Stebnik Drogbytsky, where the most potassium salts are found in Ukraine. There is a neglected mine that has been preserved to this day, and this transformation under the ground has created voids that are washed with fresh water. As a result, the road overcrowding under the rubble is constantly taking place and there is a high risk of collapse, which poses a danger to both the inhabitants of Stebnik and those who use it. So, with Deputy Bogdan Matkovski, we ask you to form a commission immediately at the Cabinet of Ministers to resolve the issue of Stebnik. And we also ask Mr. Kubov, Minister of Ecology of Ostap Semierak, to come to our committee to speak further and what we will do with the city of Stebnik to analyze the situation and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u20	Thank you, madame national MP. I know about this problem, and yesterday I had a working meeting with the head of the Lviv District Administration again, and he was in violation of that question. I think your proposal is appropriate, from the point of view of creating such a commission, and then I will assign First Deputy Prime Minister Stepan Kubi to lead this commission, and together I will find solutions. But you know, it's not one year, it's a few decades. This is what I was talking about at the government meeting, which is that you and I now have to clean up everything that's been neglected, allowed in previous periods, unfortunately. Although someone does say that it is not necessary to mention those who were, I feel that it is possible to mention and not need to. But I only have one question that I ask those who were before: what you did, especially in the decade of 2004, 2014 that in a country the economy is broken down, people live at an extremely low level of income. And for us now, this is a huge task, to fix the situation, and to get the country back to normal, to make people feel that there are normal changes in their lives, and Ukraine has put an absolutely decent place in Europe and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u21	Thank you. Savrasov Maxim Vitaliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u22	Jarinich, word, pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u23	Jarinich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u24	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, good afternoon! I'd like to inform you that on November 7th, at the meeting of our medical committee, a reference was made to the Amosova Institute for Cardiovascular Surgery. And I want to draw your attention to the fact that this facility has the only modern computer tomographer in Ukraine with a unique set of cardiograms. Thanks to this high - tech equipment, over the past five years, 28,000 serious patients have had the opportunity to be diagnosed with the most complex heart defects. Regrettably, today, due to excessive loading, the device’s resources have ended, and a replacement of the X - ray tube is needed. So I ask, without delay, to consider the appeal of our committee, the price of just 3 million dollars to solve the huge issue of our population’s health and access to medical care.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u25	Thank you. Thank you for your question, and we will definitely deal with it, find out what we need to do, what we can do to help. But what I'd like to say is cardiovascular disease, colleagues. We have really more than 60 percent, 68 percent of people die from cardiovascular disease. What did the government do with you, together, I stress, to solve this problem? First, in the 2017 budget, we've foreseen with you the cost of creating 13 cardio centers across the country, 13th. This is where the disease of the heart vessels will be stentred. We made public purchases, twice as many stents, for the same money, that is, we destroyed corruption in the purchase of stents. And the third position you and I have taken, you and I have introduced free medications, including hypertensive diseases. So actually, I think in a few years, these approaches will give us high-quality rates of mortality and disability from cardiovascular disease. Next. The following year, my friends, next year and Tuesday, we will vote on the first reading of the budget. We're predicting 1 billion already for free drugs and another 150 million for creating about 13 cardiovascular surgery centers throughout the country. This will mean that we will take another step in the struggle for the lives of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u26	Thank you. The walker passes the word for Kulinich's question. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u27	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. Dear Paul Dmitrovich, as you know, last Saturday in Poltavsk district was an attempt to raid the agro-firm of the Orzitsky. On Saturday morning, a private notary from Dnipro Pavlovska carries out a registration procedure to change the founders of the company. Although there was a court ban on such acts at that time. At dinnertime, more than a hundred armed people came to the company. Thanks to the operational and professional activities of the Public Prosecutor’s Office of the Poltavian National Police, the company was able to protect it. On Monday the same notary of Pavlovska cancels the registration. But there's no question that these are raid schemes and this is the problem of the whole state. So there's a specific question. Has the registration of this notary been monitored? If these facts are confirmed, what sanctions will be applied to Paul’s Notary? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u28	Thank you for asking. I can inform you that, indeed, thanks to the systematic actions of our law enforcement officers of the National Police, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has not been allowed to raid this enterprise. Now, as the Ministry of Justice, we are completing the monitoring of this mountain notaryus. And because the Ukrainian Parliament has voted an anti-rider law that gives responsibility to 10 years in prison for such an act, I can say that there is every chance in the individual that they can communicate with law enforcement and actually be in the process of being suspected of such illegal acts. The Ministry of Justice, for its part, will transfer all monitoring materials to law enforcement authorities to enable them to make decisions regarding criminal conduct violations.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u29	Mr. Head! Mr. Head! I'm literally 30 seconds away, and I think we have a common position with the Minister of Internal Affairs. All those who are involved in the raiding, the intense capture of other foreign property, I want to emphasize, we have only one recipe in the government and in the National Police, it's called the Ukrainian language "faces in the floor" and the Russian language "morda in the floor." So I would like to emphasize and call upon all the law enforcement officers in this country, this is the position and heads of the National Police, and the Minister of Internal Affairs, if someone anywhere in any part of Ukraine is physically seizing any property -- to respond immediately, to arrest, to bring it to trial and to demand punishment. This is question number one, and I would ask that we fully support the legitimate actions of the National Police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u30	Thank you. Questions from Nedava Oleg Anatoliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u31	Dear Ukrainians! Ukraine has always been proud of its coal industry, and today we are buying coal abroad. Sailors lose their jobs and lose their jobs. Cities, mining cities are down. Ukraine needs its own coal, needs its own production. So I have a question for Igor Nasalik and a wish, and a question for Vladimir Borisovich. First, when will the National Coal Stock Company finally work? And secondly, Vladimir Borisovich, please support my amendment to the return of government support to our miners, because the absence of this program will have a very bad impact on the life of the miner and the development of the coal industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u32	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for asking. As far as the coal industry is concerned, you're absolutely right, we're a country that has to provide itself with all the necessary components, including coal, and ensure, including our energy security. In fact, the question is not about coal subsidies. Look, private mines are now extracting coal and extracting coal with normal self-sustainment, and in government mines, unfortunately, this is, again, back to that decade, which are unmodernized, neglected, people have no basic means of personal protection. Now, as I promised, we've bought 100 million miners personal protection. But that's not enough, so we need the state to invest in the modernization of mines, where security will be, and quality self-sustainment, and not the excess self-sustainment that everyone's going around making a huge amount of corruption. Sailors don't have a normal salary yet. It's rude, we won't support it. We support investment in modernization or the sale of mines that can be sold for upgrades, people get normal jobs and normal working conditions. This is a priority for us, and this includes a strategy for reforming the coal sector. Including this strategy, we fully agree with the coal industry. It has to be started since 2018, and it is now in front of the Ministry. And I'm stressing that we need to learn how to get as much gas as we need, not buy it abroad; get as much coal as we need, including energy. We need to do everything we can to start a strong, stable and strong electricity exporter, to increase the capacity not to pull the currency out of the country, but to put the currency into the country at the expense of people in Ukraine getting normal jobs, and it will be a completely normal development of the national economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u33	Thank you. I'll be right back. Who's going to make it up to you? I just can't see. Ah, turn on the microphone, Nasalik. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u34	Mr. Oleg, thank you for asking. It's really interesting. And first of all, I want to thank the members of the Fuel Energy Committee, and the Michi Bondar, and you for actively working on creating a national stock company, a coal company in Ukraine, because this is the only key to transforming the coal sector in our country. I'm only supposed to give you three digits. Groysman's government came when the coal sector had 15.6 billion debt, 1.8 billion debt for material and technical materials, and 4 and a half months of debt on wages. The National Coal Stock Company, by the way, signed by the Prime Minister, and I must tell you that the next government is already fully considering its statute, constitution and entry into force, will allow for the differentiation of the manufacturing process. For the first time in four years, the government of Vladimir Borisovich Groysman allocated a billion dollars this year for technical equipment. And I think in November-December these funds will be transformed into mine equipment. Position of the second. I want to thank the people's deputies for supporting the idea of upgrading by 2.5 billion next year. What will this give our nation? I have to say that over the past year and a half, we've been able to transform the thermal power plants, and today, compared to last year, we've reduced by 3.5 million tons the consumption of anthracite. But by the 3.5 million tons, the consumption of the carbon gas group has increased, so we'll do everything we can to make sure that I promised the government at the presentation of the National Shareholder Company that by the end of the summer next year we didn't have any damage mines. And we will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u35	Thank you. Gudzenko gives the floor to the question of Pottery Alexia. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u36	Good afternoon! I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Minister of Infrastructure. Two months ago, the Cabinet of Ministers made a very long-awaited decision by Odessa on the reconstruction of the Odessa Airport runway. This is an extremely important decision for both Odessa and Ukraine. But at this point, the work hasn't started yet. And we also learned that the approved asset, Kostoris 2013, which was calculated, clearly, at $8, at a very different price. So I have the following questions. First. When will work directly on the runway? The other one. When will Costors be examined? And the third. How will these works be financed in 2017 and 2018? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u37	Thank you. I was just talking to the finance minister yesterday. As regards the start of funding for this project. They are now working together with the Ministry of Infrastructure to develop all the necessary documents to start the financing process. As for the money that. Because I think the airport for Odessa is very important, and we're going to build it. The only thing, well, many years there, as you say, even the documentation of the 13th year, is a lot of bureaucratic things to do and go through. But I'm stressing that we're going to help build the airport municipal. Well, we need local budgets to be involved in financing this infrastructure project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u38	Thank you. Koljev Alona Volodymyrovna gives the speech to Láško Oleg Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u39	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Dear Minister of Energy! Mr. Nasalik, I say you're lying to the Ukrainians. All your brownish reports about coal being okay is a lie. This year, 16 million tons of imported coal was purchased, mostly from Russia. Over $2 billion was paid for imported coal when our coal miners were unemployed. The following year up to 40 percent of the coal gas mark will be purchased abroad. These are the results of your farming. You're lying to Ukrainians. You're lying to Ukrainian miners. Instead of developing your own manufacturing industry, you do not yet have a national coal development programme. That's the last of it. Mr. Prime Minister, I will address you again. The gas distribution network is a huge resource that is now being used by the oligarchus of Firtas, Ljovcken and Boyk. Instead of working for the Ukrainians. Mr. Prime Minister, I have a bulldozing grip. I won't let you go. Get the network back.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u40	Well, let the minister answer, then I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u41	Thank you for asking, Oleg Valeriyovich. Always use the digits correctly. I want to remind you that since January 1, 2017, the decision of the National Security and Defence Council has suspended any shipment of coal from the so-called ATO zone. We should say that from the ATO, we got 40 percent of carbon consumption or 10 million tons. So today we've cut to 7 million, but these 7 million have to be replaced. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. Excuse me, Oleg Valentinovich. That's it. Excuse me, Oleg Valentinovich, this is Tessa who works on an anthracite group. We should tell everyone that we have moved the second cluster of Dragons and the fifth cluster of Dragons to this day. The first block was transferred to the coal gas group by the DTC of Transnistria. Fourth. So, thanks to you and your help, when we invest in mines, we will fulfill the commitments we have made. Thank you, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u42	Thank you, Mr. Oleg Valeriovich. I'll start with gas networks. This is a matter of concern for law enforcement. Because it's not a matter of technical decision-making by the government, it's where they took it from. There's been a privatization process and you know it. That's why law enforcement does business. We absolutely believe that this market needs to be demonized. And if any government acts are required to do so, they will be adopted immediately. We're working on it now, actually, to demonolyse the natural gas market. I don't want to run ahead. But what I'm saying is that we're not interested as a state, as citizens, in having monopolies, including a monopoly, as a state company called Naftogaz. We're going to have to let all the gas traders in the gas market, so we don't have any monopoly rights, whether it's polygamy or Naftogaz. And this is the course of government that we're going to go through and do this task. Anything else, it's a question of the law enforcement system. The reasons, as has been privatized there and so on. As far as coal is concerned. You're absolutely right about us importing coal today. Although they had the opportunity when they had access to coal from Donbas, our Ukrainian coal, not to buy it for a foreign currency, but to buy it for a Ukrainian bracelet. Including this, it had an absolutely positive impact on the exchange rate, on the country's trade balance, on inflation. Now, unfortunately, this is a new challenge for us. And you say plus 16 million tons. But I'd love to do anything to get the Ukrainian coal here. And that's why I said we need to modernise the coal sector. Two ways, two ways. Or we finance it from the budget and upgrade the mines, increase the yield of our own coal. Or we're giving these mines to privatize so that private businesses can come and develop them. And that is the experience of Ukraine. Our task is no kilograms of coal, no tons of coal imported into the country. We have to be an exporting country. But it takes time. And I'm underlining that. If we were in the fourth year, there was more than 10 percent economic growth. In the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and including thirteenth years, we would at least make the right decisions — to modernize the energy sector, to move away from energy dependence with the Russian Federation. If we didn't have wars today, we'd have a strong economy, and people's wages are high. And unfortunately, for three years, we're only responding to the challenges that have been facing our country, including in the energy field. And it must be given due respect that it was the first government after the Dignity Revolution that Arsenius Yatzenyuk began a course on the energy independence of our state. It was difficult, it was very, very difficult, but no one can say in this room today, and I mean that in the 14th year he would be ready to face Russian aggression. No one has been in the conditions from which you and I, dear friends, come out in terms of military aggression and maximum aggression, both in the economic and energy spheres of the Russian Federation. Ukraine will be a completely successful and self - sufficient state. I'm convinced of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u43	Thank you. He still has time to ask a question, Didic Valentin Volodymyrovich. And that's probably the last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u44	I am addressing a representative of the Ministry of Health on such a matter. Territorial communities have been established, and so far, primary health care centers are unable to issue hospital letters, and people's dissatisfaction is growing. And I would like to hear what the Ministry of Health is doing about this, because people are waiting, people have put in, people are fighting for their hospital, they believe. And I want to believe that the issue of issuing hospital letters will be resolved. I'm waiting for an answer from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u45	Thank you. Before I answer that question, I'm going to say, another Oleg Barna, he's next, he'll still be there, but they'll answer that question and then Mr. Oleg will give you an answer. Who Will Answer? All right, come on, Oleg Barna. Are you going to have questions from where or from the rostrum? Out of the way. Last question, Barna Oleg Stepanovich. Ilik, Ilik. Okay. Because I just can't see. Then Ilik, give a very brief answer to Didic, and then Barna. Please, Ilik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u46	Good day to you all. Thank you for asking. Today, the Ministry of Health is actively working on the issue of hospital sheets. So today there is an appropriate tender, and actually hospital leaves are purchased. They're not moving into the region right now, and we're counting on the question of the MP's request to take special control. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u47	Thank you. Although time is running out, the final question. Oleg Barna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u48	Praise Jesus Christ!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u49	Thank God.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u50	First question to the Minister of Social Policy, Mr. Andrew Revie, about the calculation of the pensions of military personnel. And the second question to the Minister of Ecology of Ostap Semiyuk. The critical situation with regard to the waters in Ternopils is not necessarily related to the wrong one. with a critical ecological situation that was drought, and how with inappropriate activity, unprofessional activity, the criminal activity of district water management, which allowed water to descend without going in without accepting local self-government or taking into account the environmental situation. In particular, the last time the land administration commission granted permission to lower the water, and the signed permission of the head of the Maria Maslánka sector to lower the water in a pond that had barely reached a third in two years. This could have been done only by means of corrupt ties between the local government and the former authority that it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u51	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u52	Captured these leases during 2007-2010. And besides, I don't understand how the National Natural Park of the Dniestrovoske Canyon can give permission to extract gravel from the Dniester River, as if it were a deep river. This is completely absurd. That's why I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u53	Mr. Oleg, he didn't add anyone. Give me 10 seconds, just finish, don't go on, just finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u54	I ask you to create a proper commission to study the proper activities of the department and the administration, because the issue of ecology is a matter of the lives of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u55	Please, Mr. Ostap, this is your knowledge.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u56	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. It is a pleasure for national deputies to support the Ministry of Nature in making environmental policy a priority of public policy. In fact, this has not been practiced in the last 25 years. Today we have done a lot and will do more with the support of the national deputies. With regard to this particular case in the Ternopil area, of course we'll do a background check and give the Supreme Council some information. But on the occasion of water management, I would like to say that the Ukrainian Parliament has adopted a Euro-Integration Law on Water Agency Reform and the Transition to Swimming Management. Today, the Ministry of Nature prepares the concept of water reform and water quality monitoring, which will be presented to the Ukrainian government in the near future, I hope for support, and the introduction of a new management system should, of course, deprive this area of government of old, inefficient, very often corrupt actions. I don't rule out that business interest is also involved in this story, because you mentioned the rent of the bets, and you're going to have to get involved here, maybe except for environmentalists, who are going to help us check in on the results of the check, we'll give you an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u57	Thank you, colleagues. And the final word is given to Vladimir Borisovich Groissman, Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u58	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies! First of all, I want to thank you for the important, difficult decisions that we have been able to make in this room for the autumn, which we can call the autumn of reforms. No one with you has been able to find political will and reason to adopt a new education system, a new health system, a new pension system, and a number of other important bills that change the lives of Ukrainians in a better way. I want to emphasize that all of these decisions, they're very not easy and they've been worked out and taken, and they're not just going to implement them. But I want to assure you that we will do our utmost to get quality education, health care, and quality pension insurance. I'd like to say that if someone thinks that we've undertaken pension reform and the pension increase at this end is over, you're very wrong, we'll be doing it every year since 2019, a fair rise and we'll do everything we can to make the pensioners of Ukraine live better. But to do that, we need to make a number of important decisions, not completion, but just the beginning. We need to strengthen the national economy, our economy has tremendous growth potential, and in fact our economy has always not been a professional power, and the corruption of power has been suppressed. You and I made a very important decision yesterday regarding the launch of the public privatisation process. And I would say the sale of public and open state enterprises, not strategic, state-owned companies, which today are the source of corruption and the source of wealth for those who lead and revolve around them. Our task, and we took this responsible step, to bring investment there, to create new jobs there, to provide technological weapons. It's going to be very important for us this year to adopt economic laws, laws that strengthen our competition, this is about changes in antimonopoly legislation, about monitoring government purchases, and it's very important for us that every Ukrainian bracelet that is spent in public procurement be analyzed. And all those who can still find loopholes for abuse today must be held accountable for this punishment and responsibility. We need to adopt a number of laws that increase our industry. And it's about industrial parks that we have to adopt this bill, it's very important for us to create new businesses, new jobs and move on. Economics can be the most dynamic in Europe. We need our decisions, including within the framework of the Ukrainian Parliament, our joint decisions. And so once again, I want to thank everyone for who is working on the decision, and when we are united with Parliament in making these decisions, we will always be successful. And we will not be ashamed of people, nor will we be ashamed to look into people’s eyes. So once again, I would like to thank you very much for your support, for your wisdom, for the advice and suggestions that are included in Ukraine's new legislation. We make Ukraine successful, and the Ukrainians rich together. Thank you for your support. Thank you, dear friends!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the "hour of questions to the government" is over. Let us thank the government and the Prime Minister for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We now have 30 minutes to read the request, and at 11:50, we will move on to Project Rule 6327. So, Mr. Igor, be in the hall at 11:45, of course, we'll move on to your decision to unlock medical reform. So, Mrs. Irina Heratchenko, I invite you to read the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u60	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, in two weeks we had 266 requests. I'll try to publish them all so they can go to the relevant ministries and departments. And we have questions to ask the President of Ukraine, as you know, according to the Rules when we consider requests to the President, we have to vote by name in favour of the request. I ask you not to differ, because now we have to vote on Victoria's request to the President of Ukraine to delay signing the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on corporate contracts (registration number 4470), adopted on 23 March 2017 and sent for the signature of the President of Ukraine on 3 April 2017. I'm asking for your support to vote now, colleagues, please. [[11:13:19]] For-49 Your request is not supported, Your Honor, Mrs. Victoria, we can't even vote on the direction. There's no potential. Next request, please. Jury Pavlenko to the President of Ukraine on the accumulation of negative trends in adoption and the development of family forms of education for orphans and children deprived of parental care, the initiation of the All-Ukrainian Council on the Protection of the Rights of the Child in situations of armed conflict and complex socio-economic transformation. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of this request to the President of Ukraine. Please. [[11:14:09]] Z-71
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u61	71 only a national MP. Too bad, because it's a topic. But appropriate questions. I'd love to do it again, but I don't have the potential. Therefore, dear colleagues, I ask you to visit work on Friday, just as I did on other days. And I'm going to ask questions, to other authorities, and I'm asking you not to scream, because we have a lot of requests for me to read them all. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir District Council, the head of the Žitomir Observatories for the cleansing of the Artesian well and for the purchase of a new pump for the water tower in the village of Kolodzny Romanov district of Žitomir district. Viktor Razwadowski, head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, head of the Žitomir Observatories for the repair of the road of Miroslav-Romanovka-Cudnów, which passes through the inhabited areas of the Romanov region and the Zidomir region. Ms. Helen Ledowski to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the changes to Mr. 2.1. and p. 4.1. Orders for the maintenance of workers’ books, approved by Ministry of Labour Order No. 58 of July 29, 1993. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister for changes in the arrangement for the allocation of housing subsidies to the population, "To simplify the way in which subsidies are granted to the population to reimburse the costs of the HKG for the acquisition of cremated gas, solid and liquid spent fuel." Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister on State financial support for low-income population groups when they are treated in medical institutions, in accordance with the adopted bill (No. 6327) "On State Financial Guarantees for the Provision of Medical Services and Medical Resources". Fedor Negoya to the Prime Minister for the provision of breastplates for persons assigned to sports titles. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Ionova and Frez) to the head of the National Police of Ukraine regarding the response to the facts of the conduct of a compulsory review of the personal belongings of Ukrainian citizens by participants in protests near the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Finance, Director of Finance of the Lviv District Public Administration, for the correction of the amount of the medical subsidy for the Radehiv region of Lviv region for 2017. Michael Bondar is head of the Lviv Observatories for the support and inclusion of Radehovsky, Brodivsky, Bousky, and Kamyanka-Buzki regions of the Lviv Region into the Capital Building Program at the expense of the DFRD for 2018. Vladislav Buhareva, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister, on accounting in the State Budget of Ukraine for 2018, funds for the financing of the programme "State aid for the lending of individual rural builders for construction (renovation) and housing" in Sumski district. Vladislav Buhareva to the head of the State Administration of Ukraine, Head of the AP on the non-improvement of the conditions of access to the court of citizens during the optimisation of the Labedina District Court of Suma Region. Alexander Nechayeva to the Prime Minister on the inappropriate response of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to the facts of unlawful action and the obstacles to the exercise of authority of local self-government in the Suma region. Yuri Boyka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the extraordinary ecological situation in the village of Barannikovka and death. Krasnoricensk Kreminsky district of Luhansk. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister, Henprocuror of Ukraine, head of Hmelnick district administration for the collapse of the heating season 2017-2018 in the town of Shepetovka Hmelnicka. Andrea Kota to the Prime Minister for the adoption of a decree by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which provides for the restoration of the mechanism for the recalculation of pensions of pensioners of the State Service and local self-government bodies. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister for financing of the "ministerial experiment" of the Volin Road section of the state importance of the R-15 Covel-Volomir-Volinsky-Crovonograd-Jovva. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of a state-wide settlement on the issue of reimbursement of expenses for the transfer of benefits to citizens. Vasil Pétovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association "Ukrainian Railway", Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the inclusion of the Kharkiv Rakh train of the village of Kwasov. Sergia Dunaev to Henprocuror on the illegal inaction of officials of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine. Andrija Lopushanski until he was temporarily serving as Minister of Health, Minister of Education, head of the Lviv Observatories on drinking water quality issues in the educational institutions of the Lviv region. Andrija Lopushanski to the head of the government of the Public Shareholders Association Kyivgaz for the free installation of gas counters. Mikoli Palamarczuk and Viktor Krivenk to the Supreme Council of Justice, the State Judicial Administration, Henprosecutor for bringing to justice the judges of the Primorski District Court of Mariupol and the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region for violating the rules of publicity and for disclosing the court's case in the course of the prosecution of military officer 79 of the Azoo-Black Sea Regional Authority of the State Border Service of Ukraine, the tactical group "Kordon" Sergei Kolmogorov. Savchenko's hope for Henprocuror's protection of the State's interests in a case-by-case indictment of the decision of the Ravenna Court of Appeal concerning the unlawful removal from Ukraine's defence land and the use of the military part of the A0553 land area of 286 hectares. Savchenko's hopes for Henprocuror, the head of the Procurator's Qualifications and Disciplinary Commission regarding the appeal of the Public Organisation of the International Law Protection Group on the possible facts of corruption, the abuse of office and the influence of members of the Military Prosecutor's Office, Mr M., Viznuk P. M., Bogozovovo J., Kursova O. V., Sivod I. S. and others. Sergey Labazuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, on clarifying the issue of inheritance. Sergia Labazuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, for the development of the National Budget project of Ukraine, taking into account the interests of the united territorial communities. Alexia Ryabchin to the Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Temporary and Internal Affairs, Head of the Luhansk Region Government for the proper administration of CAT "Stanica Luganska", road repair and comfort for Ukrainian citizens who cross the line of delimitation. Alexia Rybkin to the Minister of Infrastructure, temporarily acting as head of the Public Shareholders Authority of the State Shareholder Company of the Ukrainian Motorways Company, heads of the Luhansk Authority on the need for capital repair of the area of regional importance in the area of the village of Novo redvonne - village of Lower Duvanka Lugansk. Oleg Musia to Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the violation of Ukrainian constitutional rights while receiving compensation for occupational diseases. Mikoli Skorak to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau on the abuse of office, which has signs of corruption, officials of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, the State of Dirgeokadastr, the Administration of the Dirgeokadastra in the Odessa Region and the Baltic City Council, which has caused damage to the state in a particularly large way. Yuri Boyka and Yuri Pavlenko to the Prime Minister on the critical situation of payment of salaries to medical personnel in the city of Žitomir and the insufficient amount of the approved medical subsidy to the city of Žitomir for 2017 and 2018. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister about the unsatisfactory work of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health in the area of the non-health care of anti-botulinic raw materials, which resulted in fatal accidents. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the unsatisfactory work done by the reconstruction of the Lviv Clinical Perinatal Centre, which endangers its full functioning. Tetjana Crnoval to the Prime Minister, Head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, Head of the State Audit Service, Attorney General for Possible Violations during State Procurement of Medical Equipment. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Plains Authority for the provision of treatment for patients with chronic hepatitis C in the Plains region. Helen Sotnik to Henprocuror for conducting a special trial against former high - ranking workers in the commission of corruption and other crimes. Artura Martovicki and Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister on the absence of a vaccine in a health facility to prevent polio as a result of the inadequate work of the Ministry of Health. Andrija Illenka, head of the Kyiv City Administration, Director of the Communiqué Company, Managing Company for the Housing Fund of the Rightful Region of Kiev, acting as Head of the Right District in Kiev State Administration, Director of the Department of Housing and Communal Infrastructure for the inclusion in the Kiev Social and Economic Development Programme for the 18th year of the capital repair of the asphalt cover on the street of Volkova, 2, 4 and 4a in the right-wing area of the capital. Andrea Illenka, head of the Kyiv City Administration, acting as head of the Righteous District in Kiev State Administration, director of the Department of Housing and Utilities Infrastructure for communication in the Youth Street building, 9 in the Righteous District of Kiev. Victor Vuka to the head of the National Police, the Attorney General for the illegal construction of private property in the area of the monument to the archaeology of national importance, is a town of early iron age in Hoti district of Kyiv, in the city of Hoti. Alexander Suprunenka to the Head of the Supreme Council, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for a systematic and inappropriate examination of parliamentary appeals and requests by officials of the Kyiv City State Administration. Gregory Times to the Minister of Interior, Henprocuror for the deliberate delay in carrying out investigation activities by the employees of the Novoseltice Police Department of the Police Department of the National Police Department in the Chernivsky region of the investigation of criminal conduct No. 12015260120000599 of 04.11.15. Vasil Janicky to the executive responsibility of the head of the government of the public shareholders association "Ukrainian Railway", Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for changing the timetable of trains No. 141 "Kyiv-Lviv" and 142 "Lviv-Kyiv". Sergey Lewochkina to the Prime Minister to increase the problem of increased debt from pay-per-view. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv Observatory for the provision of modern multimedia teaching facilities for the education of the Bilocerkow district of Kiev. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv Observatory for the provision of stationary fluorographs to the clinic of the Tetian Central District Hospital in the Kyiv region. Olega Berezuk to the Minister of Finance on the settlement of the issue of the allocation of funds from the Ukrainian State budget for the construction (acquisition) of housing, particularly for citizens affected by the CHEUS disaster, citizens in need of improvement of housing conditions in local governments. Dmitry Timchuk to the Head of the SBU for the examination of judges of the Primorski district of Mariupol and the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region for links with terrorist organizations, support for secessionism and the aggressor country. Sergey Leshchenka to the executive director of the Public Reform Foundation in Ukraine for the possible financing of US lobbyists by President Peter Prashenko of the Public Society Fund for Reform in Ukraine. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Development, Minister of Agriculture Policy, Head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Ivano-Frankow government for the construction of the Austrian company Schweigoffer of the woodworking plant in the Johno-Frankiv district, which could have negative consequences for the domestic logging and woodworking industry. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, head of the Vinnicka Observatoire on the existence of a clear, step-by-step plan for the interaction of relevant structures and units aimed at evacuation/protection of the population and the elimination of fire in the event of detonation at munitions depots. Romana Macola to the Public Shareholders' Association "Ukrainian Railway", the Ministry of Infrastructure for Change to the Rapid Train Route No. 705/706 (Intersity +) provided for an additional stop in the town of Shepetovka. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister, Henprocuror, for the non-admission of an ecological disaster in the territory of the Royal Region of the city of Zitomir. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister about the repayment of the debt for medium-term loans. Irina Konstanovic is in charge of the Head of the State Road Agency for the arrival and use of funds from the state budget of 12 million dollars and local budgets of 1.8 million dollars. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. to repair the road O-030428 - Kamenin-Kashirsky-Police-Olene-Rudka-Chervinska-/ P-14. Irina Konstanovic to the Minister of Justice for ensuring the proper operation of the Notary system in the Lubeshiv region of Volin. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister for violations of the rights and social guarantees granted by valid legislation to participants and liquidators of the Chernobyl AES accident due to the lack of funding for appropriate budget programmes for the provision of housing data. Ruslan Solvar to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, the head of the Kyiv Observatory for the filling of the local budget by means of the renewal of the nagrass tax. Ruslan Solvar to the Minister of Social Affairs for the protection of the rights of citizens who suffered from the Chernobyl disaster, who worked or lived in areas of enhanced radiological control, to receive a pension with a reduction in retirement age. John Rybak to the head of the Ivano-Frankow observatories, the head of the Chernobyl observatories for the allocation of funding for the construction of the bridge crossing through the Trzemoš River between the death of the corner of the Kosovo region of Johno-Frankiv region and the city of Visnik of the Cherniewsky region. John Rybak to the head of the Cherniewsky Observatories, head of the Visitors' Board of the Chernobyl Region for ensuring proper heating of the Corinthian Preschool Institute of the Visitors' Region of the Cherniewec Region. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister on the development of the missile and space sector of Ukraine. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister on the insufficient amount of approved medical subsidy in the city of Krivi Rig and other cities of Ukraine. Sergey Kunicina to the head of the Ukrainian National Police, Henprocuror, heads of the BSC on gross violations of Ukrainian legislation requirements on intellectual property and international agreements in the activities of the Mason Entertainment T.O. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers for the verification of misappropriation of state funds. Alexia Hotcharenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the official response to the payment for entry into the area of the Dinamo athletic stadium in Odessa. Sergey Vlasenka to the Head of the President's Administration on the possible violation by the President of Ukraine of anti-corruption legislation requirements by Peter Dustenk. Sergey Vlasenka to the Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine on the possible misuse by the President of Ukraine of Peter Prashenek of his position. Oleg Kulinić to Minister of Agriculture and Food for the provision of land for ATO participants. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers for the payment of debts from retirement to children of war for the decision of the court. Tetjana Bacheva to the Prime Minister for the absence of polio vaccine in Ukrainian treatment facilities and botulism serum in Kiev treatment facilities. Vasil Guljava to the Minister of Internal Affairs in connection with an unsatisfactory criminal investigation into a criminal offence in the city of Black Sea Odessa. Vasil Guljava to the Acting Head of the State Enterprise "The Administration of the Ukrainian Seaports" for the mass layoff of maritime security personnel and the increase in the number of management positions in the Ilcivian DP "AMPU" office. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister on pension reform and the so-called "modernisation" of pensions to pensioners from the city of the White Church. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister for anti-State activities at the Ucroborprom DK and the UATK DP. Jury Levchenka to the Department of State Architecture and Construction Control of Kiev for the Elimination of Violations of Urban Legislation on the Street of Rizka, 19-A in Shevchenkov district of Kiev. Jury Lewchenk to the head of the Kyiv City Administration on the measures taken to return the former Tchaika swimming pool to the city of Shevchenkov to municipal property and to preserve its function. Anna Romanova to the Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure, acting as Head of the State of Roads of Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin District Government for Lighting and Marking of Particularly Dangerous Areas of Road M-01 (Kiev-Chernigov-Novi Jarilovich). Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister for the allocation of the necessary funds to ensure fire and technological security in the municipal institutions of Odessa and Odessa. Igor Kotwiecki to the head of the National Police on measures to combat child suicide. Alexander Kodola to Minister of Education and Science, Prime Minister for the Financing of Higher Education Institutions I-II Levels of Accreditation (Colleagues, Technicums) of State Property. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, Secretary of the Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for the provision of accommodation for military personnel in the A4444, which was transferred from the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol to Chernigov. Alexander Abdullin to the Prime Minister for an improper response to a parliamentary request for an emergency formation in the north of the Plains region of the Dubrovnik Hospital District or hospital for intensive treatment in connection with a significant increase in disease among the population and the remoteness of rural areas from the centre of qualified medical care. Alexander Abdullin to the Prime Minister regarding the appeal of the city's head, Gitomir S.I. Drought about the critical situation associated with the non-payment of salaries to health - care workers causing social tension in the city is causing massive protests, making it impossible to operate institutions that provide medical care and are the result of systematic underfunding by the Cabinet of Health Ministers. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers on the provision of medicines for citizens in 2018 Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the reduction of the reverse grant of the Lightwater region. Vadim Krivohatka to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the investigation of the criminal activity of Kamyansko-Dniprovsk RDA Zaporozhi district of Valerija Svěsnikov. Vadim Krivochatka to the Prime Minister for the verification of the management of the Zaporozhye ODA during the reconstruction of the water networks in the village of Lukasheva, Zaporez region, Zaporezki district. Igor Aleksiev to the Director of the Kyivtodor Municipal Corporation for the repair of the road cover on the street of Zoločivska in the city of Kiev. Igor Alekseieva to the head of the Hmelnice City Council on bringing the road covered on the street of Svetankov in the area of Lesneve-1 town of Hmelnicky to the right condition. Alexander Revega to the Prime Minister on the use of measures to deal with the consequences of an extraordinary natural situation in the city of Berdichov and the region of Berdich. Alexander Revega to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, on the use of response measures to revitalize the investigation of criminal conduct in connection with the commission of the damage caused by the RP "Establishment of the Rajkow Correctional Colony of the U.S. Department of the U.S. Department of the U.S. Department of the U.S. Government of Ukraine in the Zitomir Region (No73)". Paul Rizanenka is responsible for the Head of the Holding Foundation for providing copies of approved activity reports on the determination of the value of state-owned stock packages of the DAC "Krotoprom". Julia Iofie to the Prime Minister on the need to extend the operation and increase the funding of the State targeted economic energy efficiency programme, to amend the relevant regulations for the implementation of the population credit compensation mechanism that will be involved in the installation of gas and electric boilers in apartment buildings. Julia Ioffe to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the need to protect the interests of the state and the working group of the separate unit of the Goriska mine, the First Maiden Coal, in connection with the possible manifestations of corruption, service and financial abuse in the course of the implementation of the Investment Project. Alexander Brigintz to the Chief of State Fiscal Service in Kiev on possible violations of tax legislation by colleagues of LIRA-2000. Alexander Brigintz to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on possible facts about the deliberate transfer of LIRA-2000 to bankruptcy with a view to tax evasion. Roman Semenha to the head of the Kharkiv Paradise, head of the Kharkiv Reich administration for the organization of the reconstruction of the village of Pokotylovka in the Kharkiv district of Kharkiv district from centralized to individual heating. Mikhail Golovka to Minister of Interior, Head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, Henprocuror for the Protection of the Labour Rights of Kremwent (the village of Mali Berezci of the Kremenack district of Ternopil district). Michael Golka to the Minister of Internal Affairs, acting as head of the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography, and Cadastre, Henprocuror for the restoration of the damaged property rights of residents of the village of Rostok of the Kremenack region. Dmitra Sphenov, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the use of measures to prevent violations of citizens' rights. Borislava Bereza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an open competition to hold the post of right-wing RDA head in Kiev. Borislav Bereza to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Development, to make changes to the project documentation for the construction of a new subway branch on the side of the Trojščina housing force. Vladimir Parasuka to Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council for the Budget on the allocation of funds for the needs of the Jovkovsky and Yavorów regions of the Lviv region, within the allocation of subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for the implementation of measures for the socio-economic development of individual territories. Sergey Leschchenka to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the attack on the diagram film group probably by Victor Medvedchuk. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister on the need to include anesthetizing drugs in the national list of essential medicines. Aunt Ostrikov to Minister of Social Affairs, Head of the Pension Fund for Recalculation of Pensions, October 1, 2017. Sergey Rudika to the Minister of Education to assist in the resolution of the issue of granting permission to the State Institute of Training "Smilian Centre for the Training and Training of Workers" in Smila to rent study offices that are not involved in the primary education process. Sergia Rudika to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister for Regional Development, Minister of Social Policy, Minister of Finance, Minister for Interim Affairs of the Occupied Territories to ensure the realization of the right of internally displaced citizens of Ukraine to receive compensation for the damage caused by terrorist acts and the armed aggression of the Russian Federation in eastern Ukraine. Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister, the first deputy minister of agrarian politics, the deputy minister of economic development for the purpose of transferring forest enterprises (forests) to the concession. Paul Djublik until he was temporarily acting president of the PAT Administration "CHRANSGAZ", Head of the Public Shareholders Association "Korostishivgas", Head of the Public Shareholder Society "Zitomirgaz" on addressing the problems of the gasification of the death penalty. The Niggers of the Zitomir region. Jaroslava Markevich to the Prime Minister for the inclusion of the Kharkiv National Academy Theatre of the Opera and the ballet of the name of Lisenko in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 3 April 2006. Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the allocation of the medical subsidy reserve from the State budget to the local budgets. Andrija Vadaturski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, for amendments to Ukraine's legislation as part of the residence allowance for persons released from military service in connection with the termination of the contract. Andrija Vadaturski to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science, on the list of general educational institutions located in geographically remote areas and in need of special funding. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister for the payment of the arrears on the salaries of medical workers. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister for the non-transfer of housing benefits to local budgets. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Shinkovich, until the temporary duty of the Minister of Health to mark medicines for the purpose of receiving them from the municipal hospitals. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Šinkovič are under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health for the conservation of the Hmelnicka District Psychiatric Hospital No. 2 in the village of Shepeti district of Hmelni district. Andrija Šinkovič and Alexander Gerega to the finance minister of Ukraine on the need to allocate funds for the completion of the construction of the Zaluzki U.S. in the Bilogir region of Hmelnick. Andrija Shinkovič and Alexander Gerega are under the temporary responsibilities of the Head of State Environmental Inspection, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine to take effective measures to prevent environmental pollution in the village of the city-type Basel of the Hmelni district. Victor Romanyuk to Henprocuror for the bribery of voters by Hero of Ukraine, Auntie Volodymyr Drought in the interests of the Peter Prashenko Block during the elections to the Fursian United Territorial Society. Sergey Kaplina to Henprocuror for the possible abuse of individual officials of the Poltava City Council during a tender for the reconstruction of the construction of the district social services centre for pensioners and disabled persons of the Shevchenkov district in Poltava. Oleg Osuhovski to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the BSC, Henprocuror, Head of the Lviv District State Administration, on the application of measures taken to implement the current Ukrainian legislation. Oleg Osuhovsky to Minister of Interior, Henprocuror, Head of the Board of Directors, is temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Head of the Cerkas District Council, Head of the Cerkas Authority, on the application of measures to restore the rule of law. Groups of Nardeps (Romanov, Velikin and others) to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Economic Development on the efficient spending of public budget funds on tourism development. Alexander Vilkula to Minister of Interior, Henprocuror, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for parliamentary control of the investigation of the vandalism of the Memorial of the Eternal Fire near the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in the Park of Eternal Slavs in Kiev, the restoration of the monument, and the prevention of similar events in the future. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister, Minister of Energy and the Coal Industry for Parliamentary Control on the facts of untimely involvement in the burning of important infrastructure objects, including hospitals, schools, kindergartens and the general state of preparation for the heating season 2017-2018. Vladislav Doub to the Prime Minister on the possibility of increasing social standards for natural gas consumption for the population. Paul Kishkar to Henprocuror for interference in the economic activities of TOV "BIIR PROPERTY". Irina Souslowy to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Henprocuror for investigating the death of a minor, Mathiczuk Kim, in connection with the improper performance of medical personnel in his professional duties. Alexander Nechayeva to the head of the Suma Observatories, the head of the Suma District Council, for the allocation of funds for the repair of the road to the general use of local value in the village of Rossosh of the Velikopisarov district of the Suma region. Alexander Dombrovski to the Government's Disability Commissioner, acting as Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the Ukrainian Railways, to ensure the possibility of online purchase of discount tickets for people with disabilities and other premium categories of passengers on rail transport. Alexander Dombrovski to the head of the Vinnicko oblasta, Vinnicko muncial head, the head of the Winnicko district council for the Barvino children's choreography center. Igor Popov to the Chernigiv Observance for the repair of the passage between the village of Olshan and the village of Ivanitsa (through the village of Gordna) Ichnyan district of Chernigiv district. Constantine Jarinić to the Prime Minister for inclusion in the draft Act on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2018, expenditure to ensure that citizens can receive highly specialized medical care at the National Institute of Surgery and Transplantation of the Shalimov name. Constantine Jarinič to the Minister of Education and Science on the use of urgent measures to address the underfunding problem of the Kirovograd Building College, including the payout of the teaching community and the start of the heating season. Mikoli Palamarczuk to Henprocuror for the B.O. Fund for International Anti-Corruption Courts for the C.O.C.P.P. Ruslan Demczak to the Prime Minister for the calculation of the average monthly salary during the recalculation of pensions. Ruslan Demczak to the Minister of Social Policy for the further operation of the Nemirov branch Vinnicky Centre for Social Rehabilitation of Children with Disabilities "The Flash". Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister for the provision of a fund for health care work financed from local budgets, including debt repayment. Jurya Solovya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purchase of a universal X - ray complex for the Svetienne Central District Hospital. Salova Jurya to the head of the State Judicial Administration for the creation of a unified district court of Snitinski and Hrodokovsky with a centre in the city of Snitzyn. Oksana Bilozer to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister, Head of Administration for the transfer to the National Archive Fund of the Ukrainian Audiovisual Heritage, which was formed as a result of the activities of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, the central executive authorities of Ukraine. Oksana Bilozer to the head of the State Service of Ukraine for work on the organization of the enforcement of legislation in the area of the operation of elevators in residential buildings, other buildings for the purpose of warning of accidents that cause injuries and deaths. Yurya Bublika to the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on the Abuse of the Monopoly Status of the Gas Distribution Company of the Poltava Region in the enforcement of border gas consumption standards for subscribers who have refused to set up public building counters. Jury Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to provide full funding for the payment of salaries to teachers at the Superventional Children's Music School, with the payment of the prestigious work allowance by the end of the current financial year, with the aim of not allowing debt to arise under the pay-for-work fund. Jury Devyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers on the need to provide financial support for the needs of local self - government authorities in 2018, including the need to finance the educational and medical sector, and to prevent a change in the size of the reverse grant. Jury Timoshenko to Henprocuror for the proper examination of parliamentary appeals and the renewal of the trial, possibly the murder of a military officer. Jury Timoshenko to Henprocuror with regard to ensuring full and comprehensive trial in reasonable terms. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Henprosecutory, the Human Rights Council of Ukraine, with regard to the review of Mikhalap Oleg’s repeated appeal to objectively defend his rights and provide the necessary legal assistance. We have seven questions left. Very fast. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Economic Development, the Minister of Justice, the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, the Odessa Oblast, the Odessa Arch for an objective review of the appeal by Alexander Diskalenko, who lives and works in the village of Usatov, Biliai district of Odessa, to provide a comprehensive explanation of land lease legislation and to verify the ownership of land rent. Vitalia Stasuka to the head of the government of the State Mortgage Institution, the Kiev City Head, on the use of urgent measures to determine the authorized bank, reordering arrangements for the reimbursement of interest on mortgage loans for the construction (reconstruction) of housing and the repayment of debts for the payment of such compensation. Olga Cervakovi to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology for the Non-compliance of the President's Order, which threatens the destruction of the Bilican Forest in the Kyiv region. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister for the provision of state-funded housing and utility benefits and for the preservation of local budgets. Teams of deputies (Gorvat, Petovka, etc.) to the Prime Minister for the update of the mobile composition of the Uzhgorodieri railway station. Teams of deputies (Gorva, Petovka, others) up to the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to provide material and technical security and upgrade the ultrasonic diagnostic system. And one last question. Jury Bereza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian State Food Safety Service, on violating the requirements of current Ukrainian legislation in the formation, installation and application of housing and utility prices, including heating and hot water supply of houses located at: Dnipro, Prespekt Slobožanski, 14-B, Marshall Judge, 7 (section 4), Paul Nirynberg Street, 10 (block "A", "B", "B"), 20-B Street, Mandrikivska Street, 336/340, Private Shareholder Society, Science Association "The Founder". 266 requests published, respected colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u62	Thank you. We've been through all the requests in 30 minutes. [[Applause]] Thank you, Mrs. Irina Heratchenko, for organizing the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All the questions are answered, and we can move on to the next question of the agenda. In the next question, we too have a draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 19 October 2017 on the adoption of the entire draft Law on State Financial Guarantees for the Provision of Medical Services and Medical Services (6327). This is a regulation that unlocks the possibility of signing a medical reform. We begin its consideration, and I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Shurma Igor Mihajlovich. And I'd like to ask the people's deputies to come into the hall and prepare for a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't press the head of the Supreme Council! [[B in m in s a l in]] Report your question. Don't press the head of the Supreme Council, it's hopeless.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u63	I'm asking you to report, not give directions to the Head. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u64	As a national MP, I demand that the Head of the Supreme Council be put to the vote because there are no votes. And this has to be recorded. It's a violation. And the way Long was judged. The time will come for those who violate the Rules. And now, essentially. At the time of adoption of this bill, 116 articles of the Ukrainian Law on Rules were severely violated. Parliament voted in favour of a completely different draft law in the first reading, and before the second reading, the bill was amended to a non-recognition from the basic concept to the name. There were 16 articles and 11 "transitional" items, 13 articles and 8 items "transitional positions". Such a short law was introduced with 893 laws, of which 413 were voted. This is the quality of the document prepared by the Ministry of Health. The essence of it has been completely changed, as evidenced by the statement made by the Rebirth Fund, which said that it was their experts who developed it, and the main mission of "collect" will be voted on in the next half of the year. Next. Rough violation of article 102, 121 of the Ukrainian Law on Rules. According to part four of article 102, if the bill is recognized as not needing further work and if there is no comment on its content by national deputies, the right of legislative initiative by legal or other expert authorities. According to article 5, paragraph 5 of article 121, after an article has been finalized, if there are no comments to the bill, only then can it be submitted for consideration. Personally, under the transcript, I received comments about the contents of the bill. He couldn't be put on. There's been a forgery with other people's cards. I personally handed over these documents to the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council, who was on camera, who had not reached the Regulatory Committee. This bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u65	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u66	This bill violated articles of the Constitution 22, 49, 64. And this was written in the warnings in the Institute of Strategic Research's analytical guide to the President. Peter Alexiyovich, do not give in to provocation, it is an anti-constitutional law, and he will be charged in the Constitutional Court. The experience of the past authorities shows that in a year, two, three, five, all of you will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u67	Thank you. The co - report invites the first deputy chairman of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Phinenic, Pavel Vasilovich. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting on 8 November reviewed the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 19 October 2017 on the adoption of the entire draft Law on State Financial Guarantees for the Provision of Medical Services and Medical Services, No. 6327. This draft decision was introduced by Ukrainian national deputies Shurma, Papiev, Musi, has registration number 6327. The procedure for revoking decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is defined in article 48 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and, in particular, provides for the request of the People's Chamber to the chairman of the plenary meeting with an application for a violation of the Rules. Also filing a written application to the Head of the Supreme Council with the simultaneous introduction of the relevant draft decree. The Committee noted that according to the provisions of part five and sixth of article 48 of the Rules, the National Deputies of Šurm, Papiev, Musseus addressed the Supreme Council and submitted to the Supreme Council a draft Decree for registration number 6327 with the letter "P". According to part eight of article 48 of the Supreme Council Rules, the Committee has reached a conclusion on the draft decision and proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide on the adoption of the draft decision by rejecting or voting for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u69	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Please, Skorek Mikola Leonidovich, from the place, gives the speech to Igor Shurma. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u70	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Once again, I point out that even today, even when voting on that decree, the Rules are being grossly violated. There are no more than hundreds of deputies in the hall. I demand that you put it to a rating vote. It's all fixed in the cameras. Andrew Volodymyrovich, do you remember how you handled Long? He's being charged with breaking the Rules. Today this is a gross violation of the Rules. I'm just asking you, don't give cards to those who treat you completely unkindly. This is the first one. The other one. The law is purely unconstitutional. This is evident even for those who work in different power structures without education. And I'll tell you that there's going to be a constitutional application and there's going to be a great shame for Ukraine's new history when a bill called medical reform, which says in general, decides 26 years of not doing anything in our Ukraine, voted in 12 minutes, after a reduced procedure of first reading. And now it's 12 minutes. These are reforms and changes. You know what's gonna happen to all this? He will be with him as with the Law on State Service. I will remind you of those sitting in the Presidium who voted 28 times on the State Service Act. And you, the Euro-Integrators who pressed green buttons to make this law acceptable, that you are now speaking, that you are making changes and additions, and that the authoritarian state is going. All of you, the coalition, are 300 people who have come to power and are now divided into power and coalition, and you continue to trample on health, including health. This bill will be resonant. You see what the so-called. Does the minister do? He's exterminating the Office of Ministers of the Occupation. You will all be responsible for this. The law is unconstitutional. And all those who support its implementation and do not vote in favour of it will be accountable to the people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u71	Thank you. I would like to report that the Rules permit the registration of the morning, the opening of the meeting, and this morning’s registration of the meeting. Mr. Igor, to me, I'm sure everyone is friendly in this room. And we're going to take the quality of this bill, not the quantity, but the quality of it. I'm handing the word to the head of the People's Front, Burbak Maxim Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, Andry Volodymyrovich, I understand that the former regions use every article of the Rules to stop the reform of our state. I want to remind you that these same regions were conducting experiments in medicine, and we know what that led to. And now they are doing everything they can to stop the reform of health care in Ukraine. But I want to remind them that there is no worse situation than there is right now. There's no cure. And we need to do everything we can to make sure that this branch that they're bringing to the sugar industry is restored and that our citizens are able to get quality medical services. And the budget next year, in 2018, will be foreknowledge of funding for medical reform. We know that it's already 4 billion dollars that we've been able to get into the government budget through the special confiscation regime that Janukovic stole from this gang, so we're going to fund this medical condition to improve, and our citizens have been able to get quality medical European services. So you put it to a vote, we break it down, and we start medical reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u73	Thank you. And the closing statement by Lubinz Dmitry Valeriovich's "Block of Peter Dustenk." In a minute, we'll move on to making a decision. Please invite the deputies into the hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies before making a decision. Please, Lubinec Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u74	I ask you to pass the word to Musia Oleg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u75	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the honourable presiding officer. I'm pointing out that you're probably not blinded and you see that there are 60 national MPs in the room. And that's the truth, not the osmosis. When you quote an article of the Rules on registration in the morning and then repeatedly say that you have the right to vote under the Rules and do not make laws every Friday, that is also true. Now, about the speech of the Head of the People's Front. Dear Head of the People's Front, it's very good that you've finally admitted that you haven't done anything before today. You have been in the coalition for three years, you have done nothing, and there can be no worse state of health today. It was you who diagnosed yourself in full impotence and inaction with politics. As to the substance of the bill, which is the decree. In fact, according to the Supreme Council's legal administration, the bill violated eight articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, the conclusions of the judiciary. Not the conclusion of dilettants who have nothing to do with the idea of medicine. So you will bear, whoever today does not support this decision will be held personally accountable to the Ukrainian people for the genocide it has imposed on January 1. And also about the blasphemy we saw in the government's bed. The person here who reported that all the money needs to be taken, supported by the medical reform, took all the money, sat down.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u77	Thank you. Colleagues, it's 12 o'clock. Please, briefly, the Bourbuck line, and let's move on to the vote. Replica, People's Front as a faction. What's more, they insulted the People's Front. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u78	Mr. Head, thank you for giving me the opportunity to refute this information that the previous speaker here told. So I want to remind him that we were with him in the first government of Arsenius Yatsenuk, from which he was released with a bang, because he did nothing to buy drugs, he did nothing to reform, and he could reform as a minister. Rather, he criticizes what we must accept now. So put to the vote, and we're opening the way for a medical reform in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u79	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. And I put to the vote the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 19 October 2017 on the adoption of the entire draft Law on State Financial Guarantees for the Provision of Medical Services and Medical Services (6327). Please vote. I'd like to make up my mind. Vote. [[12:01:57]] For-45 The decision is not taken. This paves the way for the signing of medical reform, and the path of reform of the Ukrainian Parliament no one will be able to stop. And I'm calling it a 30-minute break. And in advance, I say that in 30 minutes, there will be a review of Decree 7126 if there is a committee decision. So I'm asking everyone at 12:30 to come to the conference room to continue our work. Thank you. 30 minutes. Break.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u80	Guys, it's time to work. Time for a break is up, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. So let's move on to the next question. I would like to point out that the draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council is being considered immediately after the committee's decision, one of which we considered before the break. Next we have a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 9 November 2017 on the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on individual issues of the conduct of the public service (7126). I've ordered the committee's decisions to be handed over to the people's deputies. Let us proceed immediately to consider this draft decision. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the Rules of Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u81	Dear Head, Your Honor, the committee at today's session has reviewed the draft decree for registration number 7126-P, under the authority of National Deputy Alona Shkrum. It is the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of 9 November 2017 on the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on individual matters of the conduct of the public service. The Committee noted that according to the provisions of part five, part six of the 48th Rules, the People's Deputy Skrum made a written request to the Supreme Council Head and submitted to the Supreme Council a draft decision by the Supreme Council to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to article 48, part eight, of the Rules, the Committee has reached a conclusion on this draft decision and proposes that the Supreme Council decide on the draft by way of its adoption or rejection, by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u82	Thank you. Please record: two for, two for, please. From the Radical Party Popov Igor Volodymyrovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! The Radical Party agrees with the problem that now exists with the absence of appointments for high positions. It is agreed that the established selection system does not work, and it needs to be improved. However, the Radical Party did not vote in favour of these amendments to the Public Service Act because we believe that they were not sufficiently prepared. And in preparation for second reading, we found compromise formulations that would protect the achievements and achievements of the reform of the public service, but at the same time, they would correct the problems that the complaints brought to us. That is why we support the repeal of the bill in order to return to its consideration in the near future and to solve the problems that the drafters are talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u84	Thank you. From Self-Help, Semenha Roman Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u85	Semenha Roman, self-help faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! What happened yesterday is actually the rape of one of Ukraine's few real reforms "For the State Service" is definitely not adorning the Ukrainian Parliament and responding to the realities when we are actually seeing a total counter-revolution. I am, by the way, paying attention to the executive duty of the Regulatory Committee, the Head of the Supreme Council, which, according to information such as the Fair Movement, yesterday's vote took place through mass buttoning, and according to the violation of the Constitution, this law was passed yesterday. Second, in fact, despite all the warnings about the competitive procedure for selecting first and foremost managers and deputy district administrations, district government administrations, this does not allow for the de facto removal of all those categories of civil servants from category "A". Because this raises the first question of what legal status, since these people will no longer be state officials, in which the legal status of these people are found. Moreover, the State Service Act provided for a gradual, progressive, evolutionary development that predicted that these people now had no right to be party, no right to formally head election headquarters, and no right to pursue politics. And what we've stressed with you means is usurpation and rematch. Since these people will now officially lead the party lists, they will officially lead the election headquarters. It's nothing else, colleagues, like training through low, incredibly low trust in people, preparing for total usurpation and total falsification in future elections. And I think that's why it's one reason: fear of power over people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u86	Thank you. Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u87	Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u88	Gerasimov, please, Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u89	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! We can make a lot of theoretical statements here about different things that might happen or we might theoretically object to it, but there is real life. You know, I'd like to tell those colleagues who are criticizing the law adopted yesterday, so I want you to look at many experts who have read it at last, and start supporting it. That's the first one. The second question. You're very often giving us conclusions from law enforcement, conclusions from expert environments. So please take and read the conclusion of the legal administration that, indeed, the law is progressive about the public service that we have adopted has created a lot of problems at the level of local administrations. So once again, what we adopted yesterday is support for the effectiveness of our ability to defend ourselves, it's a matter of defence security. Please reject this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u90	Thank you. And a closing statement from the Rebirth Party, Kisse Anton Ivanovich. And please come into the hall, prepare for the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u91	Thank you very much. I would like to give the floor to my colleague Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u92	Please, Shurma Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u93	Igor Šurma. Mr. Anton, thank you for the opportunity to speak. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, well, the citizens of Ukraine don't see the hall right now, because no one shows it unless they show it in the evening. And I'm in front of myself, and I'm ashamed, for example, of myself. I think the chairman is all the more embarrassed to look into the hall, where you can see clearly, 226 people are not in the hall, there is no quorum and there is no decision to be put to the vote, there is no point. Moreover, this is a violation of the Ukrainian Law on Regulations. But I'm not talking about, if we're talking about making a decision on this decision that should be taken in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act right after the decision is made, I have a question: Why didn't the Health Protection Order (6327), a conclusion that was prepared yesterday by the Regulatory Committee, when there were many people in the room, not set? He was not set up for the reason that this was a very painful subject. And for today, I'm addressing Ukrainian citizens, and now we're going to vote in favour of this. For the adoption of this decree, you will see how many people vote in favour and how many votes against, and how many votes he has held back, that will be you and all the people who are in the room today. Now in terms of the future, you know, me. Mr. Andrew said that the presiding officer had a normal attitude toward him in this room, and I am one of those people who is not some sort of opposition to the presiding officer there. We have, I think, developed a normal format of work. But I'm already sorry when his colleagues try to humiliate his absence and he says, please, please, please. Remember, for this bill, he asked 28 times while they voted on the State Service Act. And what's the result? It's ridiculous at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u94	Thank you. I'll give you my word. I'm going to answer you, I'm going to give you a sincere answer, considering that yours is also an open position. My colleagues, well, first of all, I didn't put it 28 times, then I wasn't the Head. I put the same three times to the vote of all the bills. Next. Colleagues, look, there's a Cancellation Order. Well, everyone in the room understands, everyone in the room understands that this decision has no chance of passing. And as a person who is obliged to organize the work of the Supreme Council, I have a very simple thing to do: to put it on a Thursday, where there are extremely important bills that really sometimes have to call on MPs to make a positive decision. And of course, colleagues, it's a normal organization of work when we consider these decisions on Friday, when we have the ability not to take up precious time for all deputies, for committees, for factions at a time when we have mobilization in the hall. Just to be honest and honest with each other, not just for the cameras and not just to show the picture, but to understand each other correctly. And that's why I'm asking. Now I'm giving you my word for the speech, two minutes, Irina Heratschenko. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u95	Thank you, Your Honor. I think it's very important that we are such an important topic, it's the responsibility of the local government and a bill that. The law that we have adopted is not perfect - we are now discussing. I want to quote a distinguished expert, including in this sessionary room, is the Center for Democracy and the Rule of Law, one of the co-ordinators of the Honor Movement, Taras Shevchenk, who rightly stated that the Constitution is the Basic Law. And no law we have adopted can violate the Constitution. And the Constitution is very clear: "The heads of the local government administrations are appointed to office and are dismissed from office as President of Ukraine for the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." There is no competition in the Constitution. So why not observe today the obvious things that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted a law written by young deputies that is imperfect? We just have to change it. The other question is that colleagues raise an important topic is the ability to interfere with the administrative resources in the elections. And this is a completely different subject that has nothing to do with the Law on State Service. And here I'm going to say all of them. That's fair enough. [[B in m in s a l in]] I would ask young deputies not to interrupt when the first vice-speaker is speaking. I have the same right as any deputy to join in the discussion. And I'd like to add to this one, which was taken from me by the distinguished young deputy Sergei when he interrupted me. Please. Please. Now it's a very important position with regard to election violations. These are indeed more serious violations. And we, as national deputies, must. I ask you not to interrupt the discussion. The children of the Supreme Council’s rostrum are now looking at how an important bill is being discussed. So when someone interrupts another student at school, why? They're inputting from the ear class. Unfortunately, we don't have such a regulatory norm, so I think, for example, that we should introduce a standard in the Rules of the Supreme Council as a trailer that brings out the ears of those MPs who are breaking Parliament's work. But now let me say, 15 seconds, a very important line of questioning. Unfortunately, we do have such a serious problem, and therefore, colleagues, I agree that we have to join you in bringing all those criminal cases that have been violated by every fact, the pressure to vote, the interference illegal in the election trials, to be brought to trial, investigated in court, and to have these people seated. So this is our absolute problem. Here we need to strengthen legislation on responsibility for interfering with the electoral process and disrupting the electoral process. But let's not mix sin with the righteous, the State Service Act and interference with elections. No one has the right to intervene in the election: neither the head of the militia nor the national deputy of Ukraine, nor the police, nor the fire. No one has the right to intervene and press the electoral process, that's completely different things. So I suggest we put it to a vote, and I'm happy that there's such an important discussion going on right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you. We had a discussion. Irina Heratschenko said, "Youth MP Lechchenko." He claims that he is not young, that he is 37 years old. [[B in m in s a l in]] 37 years old, young or young, should be consulted.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u97	I'm sorry, there's no nickname "young" in the session room. And Mr. Yegor came to me with the following remark. He said that all the national deputies in this room were against school violence. I support it, I accept it, and I'm sorry, you can't have anyone's ear out. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u98	Mrs. Irina, I'm sorry. And that's why we're moving on to making a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mrs. Irina says she didn't call her last name. [[B in m in s a l in]] I wasn't offended, I was consulting with the hall. Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. We are all young deputies, and that is why this applies to all deputies. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 November 17 on the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Certain Issues of State Service (No. 7126). Please determine by vote. Please. [[12:50:34]] For-29 The decree is rejected. And, colleagues, I want to remind you to avoid further disputes, the Rules do not mention names, but when there was an insult to an MP or a faction. And so don't speculate when your last name is mentioned, because it's an easy way to manipulate, you can go out and call it 50 names, and then you can call it 50 names, and then you can call it a replica when you get an insult. And so let's make sure that we continue to behave properly, that we will be good at the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now we're going to the most responsible part of our meeting, these are speeches by national deputies with statements and factions. Since we have a little more time, we can spend an hour and five minutes performing. So I ask everyone who has a need and has a claim, has an appeal to the Ukrainian people, to prepare for the recording during the presentation on various issues. Ready? Please hold the recording, please. Please welcome Levchenko Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u99	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Today, I would like to speak for the first time in a short time from this rostrum as a Kiev Mayor on the issue of Kiev. And this problem of Kiev is not narrowly profiled by a single microregion. This issue of Kiev is not a question of just one or two houses. This issue of Kiev is called Vitaly Volodymyrovich Klitschko. A mer-criminal, openly, who is now abusing all the Chinese and continuing his activities, is increasing this activity, the bullying, with every month. I'd like to address the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine right now. I support the actions of NABA in relation to Deputy Minister Pavlovsky, the right actions. I support the actions of NABA after the son of Minister Avakov, Alexander Avakov. Very good actions. NAKU is actually doing a lot of the right things that I support. But I have a huge question for them. Why can't I convince NAB to act against the crimes of Vitaly Volodymyrovich Klick, against outright crimes? Against the illegal signing of land lease agreements in violation of the City Activities Regulation Act. When he gives tens of hectares to the close - knit builders. After a variety of illegal ballots in the Kiev City Council, at the founding of monopolist Ahmtov and his Kiyivenergo. Somehow it won't convince the NAB to actually investigate his crimes. I was able to open one case through the court, after I had been copied from the NABU for a year, by the court managed to force them to open one case regarding the illegal signing of the lease. But this matter lies in some way and is not properly investigated. That's why I'm addressing Mr. Sitnik directly from this rostrum. Mr. Sitnik, I urge you to open your eyes at last, I don't know what closed your eyes to Vitaly Volodymyrovich, open your eyes to his crimes and start an investigation. Because, for example, the day before yesterday, there was such a violent situation that it was difficult even to describe it when the Kyiv City Council Land Commission, with the help of aunts who were beating up a community that protested against an illegal detailed plan of territories in Syria that wanted to legitimize illegal fences. So this land commission voted in favour of this DPT without light, with the lights off in the Kyiv City Council Hall. They raised their hands and someone counted it once, and they voted for it. And it's all fixed on video, it's all available on the Internet. Mr. Sitnik, please take a look at this video of the illegal detailed plans of the territories being approved with the light off. Please give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u100	Ten seconds. The only thing I want to do, one minute, is to make a request that we all national MPs first have to abide by the law. According to the law of Ukraine, who is a criminal and who is not, it is not a national MP who determines the court. So I ask you very much during the speeches to refrain from making illegal claims. Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u101	Thank you. Mrs. Irina, with regard to illegal claims, let Klitschko, if he disagrees, sues me and in court proves that I have illegal claims. So I encourage Petty Officer to watch this video, and I urge him to check it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u102	Thank you. You had 10 seconds. Please, the next MP, Matkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u103	Bogdan Matkowski, 121 constituency, National Control political party. Every day I want to draw attention to the disaster that took place in my district, the city of Stebnik Lviv district, namely the collapse of the karst breed of the local closed salt mine mine No. 2 as a result of the activities of the public stock company Stebnic Mining and Chemical Company Polymineral. Back in 2015, in order to prevent a technological catastrophe in the former state, and now to a public shareholder company, the Stabnik Mining and Chemical Company Polymineral, I addressed MPs to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Committee on Environmental Policy, the use and elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the State Service of Ukraine with extraordinary circumstances. According to information from the U.S. mining and industrial security service, two mines with a total capacity of 4 million tons of ore per year were mined. The production of potassium ore was carried out by a chamber-surface development system, including a chamber height of 50 to 110 meters, a width of 15 to 30 meters, a length of 20 to 150 meters. During the mining of the potassium ore, several hundred chambers were made, resulting in more than 30 million cubic feet [90 - 370 m] in two mines. In the area of risk and impact of these underground voids are the residential buildings of Stebnika, high-voltage electricity lines, water-channelling networks of the cities of Drogobièa and Truscavetsa, the railway of national importance of Kyiv-Truskavets, the highway. The underground products reach the second and third areas of the slum resort of Truscavets. Due to the deterioration of technological environmental safety at Mine No. 2 as early as 2002, Watt Hirhimprom was developed and a comprehensive project of conservation of Mine No. 2 of the Stabnic Mining and Chemical Company Polymineral, which is responsible for the execution of the state-owned company's successor, Pat "Reiss". And because the successor didn't do almost all the work with the complex "preservation of the manufacturer" project. That's not a clean-up of observation drills, it's not like there's been any work done on the slots between chamber bricks with a strength of less than 2.5. They do not prepare suitable concentrations and spreads on the tails to feed them to underground manufacturers. Manufacturer number two. There were no geodetic observations of the earth’s surface and seismic observations of the state of the mining array. At the same time, they were not eliminated.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u104	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u105	As a result, not all these steps have been taken today is a technological ecological catastrophe that threatens life itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u106	Thank you. Please, the next speaker is the national MP, Macola. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u107	Good afternoon! Today I want to draw your attention to the situation in the city of Shepetovka. On October 23, a hot season was to begin in the city of Shepetovka. Today, November 10th, it never started. In apartments it is cold, and in part the schools are not attended by students and students on forced vacations. Because there's no heat. People are desperate, they've blocked the road yesterday. On Saturdays, they are going to do the same. You know, I understand them because when it's cold in the cold, it makes you uncomfortable to sit and think about something other than being warm. You know, I don't know who's to blame, who's not to blame, but I know one thing, people need to keep the house warm. So I call on everyone who's responsible for this process to give people the opportunity to get this heat. And I'm also asking the law enforcement agencies to pay attention to this situation, and they've figured it out, who's to blame, who's right, who's not to go on like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u108	Thank you. You've spent less time on the show. Please, National Deputy Derevyanko, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u109	Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! For the fourth week, Ukrainian citizens under the Supreme Council have demanded the approval of the Anticorruption Court Act, the removal of parliamentary integrity and changes to election laws. Today, on this background, we see a series of information on corruption scandals, including with regard to Mr. President, and we see a smoother extension of the power of Presidential power, the usurpation of power and the consummation of democracy, as evidenced by recent developments both in Parliament and outside Parliament. The president responded to the demands of the Ukrainians and seemed to have asked Parliament to withdraw the bill on anti-corruption courts. But that wasn't sincere, because yesterday three times this question was put to a vote, three times yesterday among the representatives of the President's Block of Petr Poroshenko, some 40, 50 deputies present in the Hall, were not voting in favour of calling this bill off. And it's not just a disgrace, it's the peak of cynicism, when on the one hand it seems to block the President's ability to submit a bill to Parliament, and on the other hand, the faction of the Peter Prashenko Block is blocking it and not voting. The requirements remain constant, the requirements remain so that they are met and people are not going to part. This is still happening in the light of what the NABU is investigating today is a scandal against the Lenin cousin, where Mr. Poshenko is a beneficial owner, where armor is sold three times the cost of the Ukrainian army for what is worth 5 million, for 15 million, it is against the background that the President's environment also sells fuel to the Ukrainian army at higher prices. And all of this shows that there are no mechanisms in the country that would allow us today to bring responsibility and the President who is trying to usurp power, and also the illegal instructions that he may give when he forces his appointed officials to buy his armor three times the cost. And I want to tell you that our soldiers not only kill an aggressor, they kill corruption, and they demoralize corruption. It is therefore very important that the Bill, which is registered to 7,248, on the President of Ukraine and the order of termination of his powers be considered on the Committee of Profiles and placed in the agenda of the Supreme Council. It's very important that we Ukrainians are not indifferent to the processes that are taking place in the country with regard to the constriction of democracy, about the unwillingness to create new institutions that are anti-corruption, about not talking and not being indifferent to what is going on in this room. That's why we ask the Ukrainians to go to Mikhailski Square on Sunday at 1:00 p.m. to march against such actions so that we have anti-corruption courts, so that we have the President's Impeachment Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u110	Thank you, colleague. And the following, dear colleagues, please give the following address from the national MP Martovitchki. Please, Mr. Martovicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u111	Dear citizens of Ukraine! I was assigned to Parliament by a developed mining region. It is believed that the inhabitants of such regions are more socially protected than the population of non - industrial areas. But to me, a very disturbing indicator is that a quarter of all my voters' appeals, especially during the heating season, are issues related to receiving state subsidies for the payment of utilities. It pains me to see pensioners, people with disabilities at personal receptions, with tears in their eyes, talk about having no funds to pay municipal bills. For me, this is an indicator of the critical poverty of the Ukrainian people. And this is certainly the result of our government's inefficient social policy. Yes, the state is trying to repay its debts to citizens in the form of subsidies, but it's done awkwardly and not professionally. In general, district government profiles, not taking into account the local social protection authorities ’ calculations, are allocated to the provision of benefits and housing subsidies twice as much as the actual need. And we understand that the time-consuming payment of benefits and subsidies with housing and utility providers leads to a deterioration in the quality of these services, the time-consuming implementation of business accounts and the payment of salaries to employees. For example, for the city of Pavlovgrad, which is located in the territory of my constituency, the Dnipropetrovska oblasta decision on the district budget for 2017 since 2 December 2016, there is a subsidy with a population balance of 185 million dollars for municipal services, and the real need for the city is 318 million dollars. So it's going to cover 58 percent of what's needed. What, then, should the city authorities do? At the same time, the social protection of the city’s inhabitants is ensured by the stable operation of thermal utilities. That's why I'm calling on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to urgently address the issue of listing the subsidies provided for in the Law of Pavlovgrad for 2017 according to the calculations of the city's socialist administration and the real needs of the city's inhabitants. When considering and finalizing the State Budget Bill for 2018, the needs of cities and villages in Ukraine are governed by reality rather than the needs of cities and villages from the ceiling. I demand that the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Social Policy and the Minister of Finance of Ukraine give a concrete answer to my statement, which I am asking you to consider to be a deputy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u112	I'm asking you to form a colleague's speech as a parliamentary request, upon his request. And now the word of the People's Deputy Kishkaru.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Today we're not going to talk about a whole series of criminal cases that aren't being investigated in the Sumskie area, we're not going to mention the murder of Jaroslav Babic, one of the founders of the "Azov" regiment, which has been miraculously hanged in their own apartment, and no procedural action has been carried out for over a year and a half. We will not mention how the National Bank does not allow investors, including Western investors, to market financial services. We're not going to mention it as law enforcement. Together, of course, with our tax-loving, IT specialists are surviving who are leaving our country, and graduates of the Poltava Military Institute, which I belong to, as well as having a whole range of own businesses, forced to leave the state, are moving to Israel, Australia, to the United States, thereby taking the added value that they have created in Ukraine. We are going to talk today about the unique initiative of the Ukrainian Parliament, which is that more than 200 people's deputies have joined in with their signatures to refer to the President of Ukraine, who demands and asks Mr. President to determine the following year, 2018, as the Year of State Language. We believe and believe that this will allow the entire state to become stronger in that hybrid war in which we are fighting an unequal battle with the Russian Federation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u114	Thank you for the performance. And the next, please, National Deputy Illenko. Welcome, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u115	Andrew Illenko. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians! Lately, this has become the daily sad reality of our lives, that literally every week there are terrorist acts on the streets of Ukrainian cities, killing people, and political killings. And we understand that, of course, today our country is in the midst of Russian aggression. We understand that war is going on. Almost every day, Ukraine pays a terrible price for maintaining its independence, and almost every day our heroes are killed on the front, injured. And in this situation, it looks absolutely wild as in the fourth year of this war, there are no basic measures that should have been taken as early as March 2014 and, in fact, "Freedom" was already clearly required to do so. Not a broken diplomatic relationship with the aggressor country, not even a visa regime with the aggressor country. At a time when we have a completely uncontrollable situation on the border today, there's a passage yard, we have no control over who comes to us, who commits terrorist acts here, who kills people here. And the authorities are absolutely not in a hurry to do that, by introducing basically even though the visa regime is the least that should be done. We still have Russian business today, in our country. We see Russian banks, we see Russian gas stations, we see Russia's huge presence in our information space, including in a hidden form, but not less destructive. We see Russian criminal oligarchs who control Ukrainian monopolies: oblanergo, oblagas. And no one's doing it, no one's fighting it, no one's trying to take this business away from them, and so on. In fact, it's like sitting on two chairs on the side of today's power that, on the one hand, they're all trying to announce to the Kremlin agents who don't like it, but on the other hand, with the real Kremlin agents, they have absolutely everything: they're friends, they're making money, they're trading money, and they're not fighting them at all. That's why we "liberators" think there's nowhere else to go. We need to make the most of our decisions. If we don't do this now, we're going to lead to a catastrophic situation at all. If today’s authorities cannot, are unable, do not want to do so, then it must give place to those Ukrainian patriots, the nationalists who will do so, who will protect Ukraine, who will show order to make the Ukrainian feel protected and, indeed, realize that the state is fighting the enemy, the state is protecting him. Because today every Ukrainian who goes out on the street is aware of the danger. He understands that at any time his life is in danger. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u116	Heroic glory! Please be the next speaker, Bereza. Oh, Borislav Bereza. Please. No, no, no, we're not confused. I'm looking carefully at which one of the marshmallows has a word now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u117	Dear Ukrainians, I am addressing you because this room is almost empty. There are three tens here. There aren't even three dozen deputies. What do I want to tell you? Yesterday a bill was passed in the session hall, allowing for the appointment of heads of administration. But what is now happening in the Trinity in Kiev is a disgrace. So it happened that, despite the fact that a contest is to take place, in Troastina, in the right district of Kiev, they are transferring the head of one of the Odessa district, district centers, to Kiev, after it had destroyed everything in its place. After that, he was subjected to a protocol. After he had mistrust from the governor. The man who destroyed everything in his possession is transferred to the almost largest district in Kiev. 600,000 inhabitants. You realize that if it's a treaty, right-wing people have been deprived of their right to choose their heads, that's the first time. They denied the right to hold a contest, and they denied it in an open contest. And most importantly, I wonder who these arrangements were with in Kyivrad, who these deals were with. And now I think it's all of them. All who are concerned about this question should gather together. All the nationalists, all those who say that the Ukrainians are important to them, must stand together against this man, who has been transferred to Kiev to the rightful region in order to rob our Trinity. In order to resolve commercial matters at all, not to help the people of the Trinity to live well. It's a very important question to ask. And what's more, I want to pay attention to all of you, who say louder than anyone that there is to be a competition, those who then keep quiet about it. We say there should be competitions. Moreover, I am convinced that the Trinity has the right to order a person, a professional, and not someone who has already raped an official's position, the person who has wasted his time and our time. So I'm addressing Mr. Groysman, I'm addressing Mr. Klitschko, I'm addressing Mr. Dustynk, and I'm addressing all of you with a single requirement: give the people of the Trinity the right to be guided, not to be given some kind of misdemeanour that has been transferred from another area. Moreover, in view of his achievements, I am ashamed that the person who destroyed everything is now assigned to the Trinity. I hope that this treaty will not be and I hope that you will hear from me, and it will not be difficult for the inhabitants of the Trinity to help you choose a new head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u118	Thank you. Please, the next speaking Lušnjak National MP. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u119	Dear Ukrainian people! Ma'am, the headmaster! Colleagues national MPs! Mikola Lušnjak, 166th District, Impact Group, Ternopilish. This year, there was a major misunderstanding among teachers in the collection of grants. A section of the months that they were taken fell where the so - called vacation expenses were paid, i.e. the amount of subsidies automatically declines. I would now like to refer to the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister of Social Policy, with a parliamentary request that the teachers of grants be paid an average salary in recent months. Then it will be fair, counting the families where the teachers live, and it will be fair to include subsidies. It's not there right now. Please consider the first part of my speech as a parliamentary request. The other one. The second year is followed by an African plague in Ukraine. Many regions are affected. Most of these are border areas – Chernigus, Sumi, but the plague has already gone to Western Ukraine. Why does Ukraine have a problem today? That's because we don't have the definition of government services that are responsible for things. For example, Poland, Belarus, with which we are bordering, with the African plague first in the border areas, are exhibited postages from foresters, from veterinary doctors who clearly track the boundaries of borders and the spread of the African plague, which is carried by the wild beast itself. We have today. On November 7, she was released at her own request from the head of the forest, the Ukrainian Forest Resources Agency. For a long time, she was in court, and no one was responsible for the branch. As a result, today Ukraine is in such a state that we started exporting pigs by 62 percent more than last year. And this Ukraine today has brought $7.5 million into other countries. In order for the sector to function, in order for us not to have such problems, today we have to maintain the service, the Forest Resources Agency is working in a balanced way. Now I want to ask the Prime Minister to put an immediate competition on the head of the forest agency. After the competition, make a mission to the head of the State Service, the new head of the Forest Resources Agency, so that they can fight in a balanced way on our borders, in our forests, where the African plague spreads. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u120	Thank you. I'd like to refer to you as the MP's address of the distinguished Mr. Lushanyak. Because the request must still be made by another regulatory procedure. Please, Oleg Lazko has six minutes. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now, Yuri Solovay. Mr. Yuri, I'm sorry. It's not clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u121	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! I was forced to speak out of this rostrum by the fact that, unfortunately, my repeated appeals to the Ministry of Finance were ignored. And I think it's not only my practice, but also the practice of most of the people's deputies when, unfortunately, ministers to whom appropriate references are addressed are confined to write-offs rather than to give a specific answer to specific questions that violate national MPs in their pleadings. That's why I'm asking you to form my address in the form of an appropriate parliamentary inquiry. Because it refers to the problems in my district. But I think these problems not only apply to my district, but they are similar in general and across the state. I want to point out that today, in the budgetary field, I'm talking about a technologist who works in schools, a technologist who works in medical institutions. In the pedagogical field, especially in preschool institutions, there is a situation where we have funding insecurity by the end of this year. In particular, for example. There are 20 million debt and funding shortfalls in the Svetnik region, particularly in the medical field of 8.7 million in the education sector. In the Kosovo region, debt in the education sector, and the technology employed in schools, teachers working in preschools, extraschool education, amounts to more than 12 million dollars. We have the same situation today in the Supreme District. And in general, the situation is that in one school, teachers who work at school are financed directly from the state budget, and technical personnel or the same teachers who work in preschools are financed from the local budget at very different rates than I am. That is why I appeal to the government to correct this situation immediately. In particular, in Ivano-Frankish, by the end of the year, the total amount of insurance in the medical and educational sectors is 250 million dollars. That's why I'm calling on the government to provide a 250 million-dollar stabilization grant in general for the needs of the Ivano-Frankow region in order to ensure that preschool workers, technicians at schools, health workers are provided with the necessary level of pay by the end of this year. What's more, I ask you to describe, as I said at the outset, the request in the form of an official MP's request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u122	Thank you. The MP's appeal is because another procedure is requested. Please, the People's Deputy of Semimenha Roman. Please. Then Oleg is you. I was wrong about two people on the list, then you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, Madam Chairman, the distinguished Ukrainian people! Today my speech is actually a requirement of thousands of Harkians to hear about their problem in my city today. The lives and health of more than 100,000 Kharkivs, residents of the Novobawar region, are in danger today. People suffer daily from dangerous discharges of toxic substances that fly into the air by a private black metallurgy company called the Kharkiv Coke Factory. A factory that was built in the 1930s and still produces coke on an industrial scale every day. Officially, in 2003, the plant blew up about 500 tons of harmful substances each year. Unfortunately, the situation in Kharkiv has not changed significantly since the reconstruction of coke batteries and the installation of gas - treatment plants. In 2014, the Kharkiv District Council recognized the coke plant as one of the largest sources of pollution in our area. Locals claim that almost every night, a coke plant increases smoke emissions by poisoning people with sulfur dioxide, benzene, phenol. I want you, my fellow national deputies, to hear the terrible numbers from the people today. According to doctors among children under the age of 18, who live near a coke factory, the disabled are six times more than in the same industrial district of Kharkiv, for example, the Industrial Plant. According to statistics, in the 17th year, with respiratory disease among children under the age of 14, living near a coke plant, they suffer more than 3,000 more than in another industrial district of Kharkiv. According to this year’s data, 193 children in another area suffer on average in the coke plant, Novobavar district, 457 children. These are terrible figures that speak of the consequences that people are already suffering with health. I asked the Minister of Ecology for a parliamentary request, and I appealed to the Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate. I know that this problem is known and dealt with by the Kharkiv district government, and that's what all the law enforcement agencies in Kharkiv know about. Unfortunately, however, the carriage is there today. The plant does not comply with the conditions for the release of pollutants, provides unreliable information on the receipt of the release permit, does not meet the conditions for special water use, violates the rules on the transfer of waste, and so on. Overriding emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere have presented the company with a claim of more than 345,000 dollars, but the vehicle is still there. In my speech, I want to draw the attention of all of Ukraine to this violent situation. I appeal to the Attorney General to immediately take this situation under his personal control, to intervene in the situation, and to put an end to it, and the guilty must be clearly called to account, and to return peace and health to the city of Harkova, Novobavar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u124	Thank you. Please describe this as a parliamentary address. And now six minutes to the honorary colleague Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u125	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Every time I start talking about Ukrainian cows, Ukrainian villages, Ukrainian peasants, many of my fellow MPs are laughing, and they're trying to make me laugh or show me their sense of humor or irony when they're trying to laugh at a Ukrainian cow. So I want to remind those who want to laugh at the Ukrainian cow that thanks to the Ukrainian cow's hunger strike, we're going to be celebrating the next sad anniversary of the Holodomor, so thanks to the Ukrainian cow, our peasants survived and saved their children. In many lands a cow is a sacred animal not only by name but also by treatment of it, because a cow is a nurse. And if every Ukrainian yard had been like my childhood when I started shepherding cows and calves, I had two cows in the village, in my yard, and in the street where I had thrown out cows, there were 70 heads. And on the farm where I chased cows, there were 400 cows. And today there is no foundation, let alone cows. So if they laughed less about cows and helped the peasants survive so that they could have a normal price for milk, they would live like humans. Because 13 million Ukrainians live in villages, and the vast majority of them live off a cow, from the price of milk, which is the price of food. Sadly, today the Ukrainian cow does not feed its host and its family, for the meager price of milk that does not cover the costs that a person should spend on hay, veterinary medicine, medical treatment, and income for this cow. And that's why the Radical Party team stood in favour of Ukrainian peasants and Ukrainian cows. Because I am absolutely convinced that if there is a Ukrainian cow in every yard, there will be a village, and when there is a village, there will be Ukraine. So we offer absolutely clear proposals that will make it possible to make it cost-effective to keep cows and price on milk. First of all, it's a minimum price for milk. Because today it has fallen to such a level that people are cutting cows because they are completely incapable of keeping them and feeding them. We demand that the government make the right decision and set a minimum price for milk. The second, absolutely necessary solution, is to ban the use of palm oil in dairy products. Why did the head of the cattle fall today? Why do few today consume natural milk? Because instead of milk, palm oil is sold in stores, which is cheap. Its cost is low, its cost of produce is low, it's made by what's called "milk products," and there's actually no dairy products, and palm oil, and the profitability of 500 to 1,000 percent. And Ukrainian peasants can't sell milk anywhere, even though you can pour it out to the pigs. It is therefore necessary to prohibit the use of palm oil in order for Ukrainians to consume quality products and this will enable them to significantly increase the level of sales of our milk produced in private agriculture. The second key is animal subsidies, that's what we're asking the government to do. Today, cows in Ukraine are less than after Hitler, 1 million cattle, 5 million cows in small New Zealand, and fewer than 2 million cows in Ukraine. Why? Because it's not an animal industry in all of Europe, because it's not a field where you can make money quickly, like, for example, at the sowing and harvesting of technical crops, sown, collected, transported grain abroad, and everything, and animal farming is a long process. And to restore the head of the great oxen, for sadly there are many pigs in authority, and there are few cows in the village. And so to restore the head of a large cattle, at least experts will tell you, 10 to 15 years of day-to-day planning work and start with government support, from farm subsidies, not latifunds, oligarchs, and individual farmers, so that the family that keeps the cow to receive the subsidy, not processors who pay a small price for milk, will earn the barshes and also get the VAT refund. The next huge problem for our peasants is gas prices, tariffs. Because many people have been gassing villages for their money, and today they cannot pay the space price of 7,000,200 for a thousand cubes. The Radical Party team is proposing a gas tariff reduction plan to ensure that our Ukrainian peasants, who have worked hard all their lives, earn a copy of their pensions, and today they have to pay for the gas. We're charging the government's decision to set the price for gas at 7,000 200 per thousand cubes. We're making sure that the budget next year provides a zero interest rate on the production of its own domestic gas. So we can buy less expensive imports and we can extract more of our own gas, our own coal, our own oil, in order to be both energy-dependent, and, at the same time, to lower tariffs for our citizens and lower gas prices for our peasants. And the third, the key, is energy-generating. When a government invests money in subsidies, it's about preserving poverty, changing windows, changing doors, changing boilers into peasants, pensioners who unfortunately don't have the ability to do it on their own. And by doing so, reduce energy efficiency and, as a result, save money. The Radical Party's team is powerful, and it is working hard to protect the interests of all Ukrainians and our relatives, dear, hardworking Ukrainian peasants. We will not give you to anyone on the ground, nor to you, nor to your cows.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u126	Thank you. Only a pig is also sacral to Ukrainians. Why insult a pig? Pigs and cows have the same rights in Ukraine. That is why I invite you, in this reply, to the words of our distinguished colleague, Mr. Yemeni. Mr. Leonid, Mr. Leonid, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u127	Thank you. Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished voters! I don't know if you're seeing this room right now, but if you see it, look closely at these completely empty places, and if you don't see it, I'll tell you, it's now from the power of 30 national deputies who have come responsiblely to carry out their responsibilities as defined by the Constitution, the laws and the responsibilities of the electorate. Who presented them to Parliament in order to work to pass laws to discuss these laws in order to make decisions. And I'm going to tell you that these 30 deputies, whichever they are, are not worthy enough to make a decision in Parliament. That takes 226 votes, and there are no 226 votes. And this picture of the empty hall we see every Friday, every Wednesday, and only about Thursdays and Tuesdays, is the accumulation of national MPs. And this is, excuse me, this is the sessional week. It's not a week of committee work or district work, it's a session when it's their job to be here in the workplace. And this painting will accompany the work of Parliament until we change the election system until the MPs respond to the vote until the MPs become professionally committed to it. Open electoral lists are the solution. If we can't accept, if these national MPs, who are now absent and their apparent majority, if they are set up by this situation, are able and able to ignore the demands of the voters who sent them here, if they don't vote in favour of the Law on Open Electoral Lists, then you, the honourable voters, we, the Ukrainian people, will remain with this disease of the Ukrainian Parliament for the next call and the call after it. This is a unique moment to change the voting system. That's why the MPs who are not here now promised that when they come to Parliament, they will do so in order to fulfill the promise you chose them to make here. But they went to the elections, promising you that they would accept open ballots, and now they're not here, and I'm afraid they'll be the same when we vote in general. Follow each one carefully. Keep an eye on how the vote will take place. Because now is a unique moment to return the decision-making centre to the Ukrainian Parliament. And this moment can be broken, and there's no chance of that at all. And today, it's up to you and the media, and it's up to you, the honourable voters, to see if we can find the required 226 votes. Go to the deputies at the reception, write them letters, and call them. These are the people you sent to work here, the people who promised you the Law on Open Election Lists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u128	Thank you, Your Honor. And please, Mr. Lubinets is now invited to the floor. By the way, he's a responsible major.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u130	You see, the responsible people are on the lists and among the majors. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u131	Dmitry's pet. I'm absolutely sure that everyone in the session room right now is responsible, and I thank you all for waiting for my performance. Today, I would like to draw attention to a very big problem. What is our future? Our future is our children. And our children will treat the state of Ukraine in the way that the authorities and local authorities and the executives treat children, namely, the conditions that these children are taught in schools. I am absolutely sure that our schools should become public - minded objects. What's going on in the Donetsk region? We have when, let's say, we've voted the law, the allocation of 2.8 billion dollars to the Donetsk region, thanks to Paul Ivanovich's proposal, we've created a school support system. But unfortunately, I'd like to say that I'm in the district, and I'm representing three districts -- Wolnowowski, Nikolsky and Manguschsky, they're starting repairs in two schools. Volnovska Number 5 and it's been a long time, but it's going slowly. And I would like to go to Paul Ivanovich, take personal control, finally, finish, and on September 1st they promised, on January 1st. When's the 5th grade? And while the kids are walking. They don't go to 5th grade, they go to 7th school, which is an emergency. From the district budget, the Wallova County Budget was allocated 7 million dollars to repair the 7th school. Imagine the year the education department did nothing, and in October they took the 7 million dollars. It's like they're waiting for this school to collapse and a child to die, and then we're going to look for more funding. The same situation in Nicole’s region. The support school, the funds, the repairs, the bombings, and everything. The contractor is missing, there is no repair, and the children are walking and studying in kindergartens, in other schools. The regime doesn't do anything at all. It doesn't look like they're our kids. So I would like this talk to be like a parliamentary address addressed to Paul Ivanovich. I know his principled position. Please note what is happening in the Volnova district of the Education Department and in the Nikol district specifically to repair the school’s support. I don't think they're doing anything. There's an offer from my parents, I've been seeing my parents in Nicole County. They say: "As long as we're waiting for repairs at this school, please, we're ready for the children to be trained in the building of the reservatory." I think that's a good point, and children will believe that they're concerned about the state when they're learning in normal rooms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u132	Thank you. Let's ask the head of the military-civil administration of Mr. Zhebrowski to form this as a parliamentary address. And now I invite Mrs. Ostrikov to the floor. Please, Mrs. Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u133	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-Help faction. Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians. I regret to note that in the current year, economic reforms have almost disappeared from the order of the daily parliament, the government and the President. Meanwhile, the crisis is going on, Ukraine's economy is not growing as it could grow. The economic reforms in Ukraine are not taking place, the business climate is unattractive. Problems that are known to all today by entrepreneurs do not find their solutions. The draft laws that are submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine or are not put to the vote, such as my draft Financial Police Act, which is called upon to replace all the forces, law enforcement agencies that are pressing on business today, or those that are working on our committee, which are working on business, and the public with bills, such as the tax on the capital outsourced, they just went up somewhere between the government, between the National Reform Board and somewhere else. They simply do not register in Parliament, regardless of the number of requests made by entrepreneurs. I was approached by a number of business organizations with appropriate references. This is both the U.S.P.P., and the Association of Taxpayers, and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and the New Country, the Committee of Entrepreneurs of Kyiv and others, which require us to solve three challenging problems with you today that are engendering entrepreneurial activity and the corresponding development of the economy. It is now imperative to stop the unwarranted, unwarranted interference of the power structures in business. Orders should be made with unwarranted searches and arrests of businesses and businesses. Finally separate the State Fiscal Service and the law enforcement function. Eliminate the Tax Police. Consolidate crime investigation functions against state public finances in one body. Finally freeing the BSS from economics. Introducing economic intelligence, they need to be given the opportunity and time to effectively combat espionage, finance terrorism, treason, not to sit on customs and chat for entrepreneurs, or to run in search companies. So another problem that entrepreneurs face is to resolve the issue immediately when they stop registering tax receipts. Our committee voted, and I am now addressing all entrepreneurs. On November 15, there will be parliamentary hearings at the Tax and Customs Policy Committee in Kiev at: Leipzig, 3. I invite everyone to sign up, and we can contact my reception, because we don’t have to. It is imperative to report to the Ministry of Finance, to the International Monetary Fund the impossibility of continuing to be in a situation where funds are being eliminated in small and medium-sized businesses when VAT abuses continue and large enterprises are being blocked.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u134	Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u135	At the same time, these deleted funds go to reimburse VAT to large businesses that block any development and block the correction of this situation. That's why I'm asking all entrepreneurs to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u136	Thank you. Please, the next speaker is national deputy Golovko. Mr. Mikhailo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u137	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Dear fellow MPs! Dear Journalists and Viewers! I'm talking to you, unfortunately. But yesterday Parliament in its first reading voted Law 7066, a so-called law that allows for the privatisation of all. property, all the factories, all the property of Ukraine and create a new procedure. The main thing is that the danger of this law, which is practically eliminated, is the destruction of a list of strategic enterprises that are not privatized. They were in the order of 3,000 in Ukraine. I mean, unlike you. liberals who claim that the state is a bad manager, that the state can't run factories, factories, businesses, it's ridiculous and absurd. Because the Ukrainian economy has one of the smallest economic sectors in the world -- about 12.5 percent. But the neighbouring Poland has twice as many. Austria has an order of 40 percent, and so does France. Denmark, Norway, and Sweden have over 60 percent or more. But for some reason, we are told that the state is innocent to own anything, and it must sell it all out. In fact, this is the sole goal of taking away these strategic enterprises that are still in state hands, the stockholders of the oligarchs, who today have the goal of buying everything for nothing. Remember, in the 1990s, as privatization took place, 29,000 factories, factories and enterprises were sold in Ukraine, just for 61 billion dollars. If you cancel "Creebrisstal" and "Cretaceous," you get 26 billion. That's less than 1 million for one company. Practically for a penny, the state’s property was dismantled at no cost. Instead of investing money in the economy, creating jobs, building factories, today they're banal about selling everything at no cost during the war. "Freedom" is clearly against that position, realizing that virtually there is no middle class in Ukraine. It is only 3-4 percent compared to Europe, where the middle class is 70 percent. The economy is practically looted that all the money is in one hand. In recent years, Gontareva has destroyed 90 banks in Ukraine. And this group of people close to the Bank will be privatizing today, finally robbing all those strategic enterprises. It's Antonova, it's Turboatoma, it's the Halfmash, it's the Crossroads, it's the Woodlands, it's the State Grain Corporation, it's the other strategic enterprises that are going to be robbed for nothing today. So, of course, we urge that this should not be allowed, for strategic enterprises should be in the hands of the state. We need to pass the Freedoms Act on State Corporations. You can prove and add private business to the creation of state corporations, where the major capital and the bulk of the shares are to be owned by the state. You can create other ways. We need to adopt our law that will bring responsibility to those poor leaders who have bankrupted state-owned enterprises. Sadly, it is impossible to do so today. And so, of course, there would be some responsibility. Instead of conducting quality competitions, instead of removing them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u138	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u139	corruptionists, the authorities are offering one thing: it's a total sale during the war of Ukraine in bulk and in pieces. We are definitely against that position. Let's make room. Let's give credit to small and medium-sized businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u140	Please, National Deputy Soloway, who once again has a word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u141	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! You know, there's a lot of debate today that might be a breakthrough in the economics that will allow Ukraine's economy to develop rapidly? So the answer to that question is extremely simple and the answer that many countries have already decided before us. This is the construction of roads in Ukraine. That's a simple and adequate answer to that question. If you want an example, in the last three years, the number and mileage of roads that haven't been restored in 20 years has been restored within my district. This is the road of Ivano-Frankivsk – Černivci within the region of Snitny region, this is the road of the Supreme – Kosovo from Stotchatov to Kosov, to the Upper. This is the road of the Kosov – the corner, this is the road of the corner – Tudev. This is the road that is now being repaired, Upper Yasenev and Ostrica. And what it does. Investments that are measured within more than 200 million dollars now have a reverse effect in terms of increased taxes on local budgets, in terms of creating new jobs. For example. Each local council received an additional plus 30 percent of the revenues from local budgets as a result of the revitalization of businesses in those communities where the roads were rebuilt. More than 10 new manufacturing companies, including woodworking plants, have started their work as a result of infrastructure developing that roads have begun to emerge. More than 10 new guest-house complexes have started construction in the territory of Gutzulščina. So the answer to the question of what should be done first in our country is to restore roads. Because road rehabilitation is a matter of developing the Ukrainian economy. But we should not only think about rebuilding highways, we should think about rebuilding local roads. I would like to remind you that since 2018 the Ukrainian Road Fund Act will begin to work, which will provide for the financing of local roads. For example, in 2018, French women will receive about 400 million dollars to solve the problem of local roads. That's why I'm going from this high rostrum to the head of the Ivano-Frankow district administration of Mr. Honcharuk in order to predict next year the repairs of the following local roads, these are the roads of Stetsev-luka, Ilinzi-Jurov, Jablounov-Kosmach, Pistin-Kosmach, Roznetov-Kutov, Rostoki-Barvinka. I think that the restoration of these very local roads will soon allow us to raise these settlements to a qualitatively new level of development, because the economic preconditions for the development of tourism, woodworking for the development of complex production are extremely good in these locations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u142	Thank you. The next speaker, Jegor Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u143	For the fourth week, there are people under Parliament whose organization is protected, whose responsibility veterans have now assumed for independence. I want to point out to all the national MPs that the attacks on you that took place in the early days have been completely halted. People so that all the national MPs can go to parliament, to their jobs, and to make decisions for the benefit of society. I would like to point out that after the people gathered under the Council and stood around us, Parliament began to vote in favour of decisions that had stalled for years. At first, the first step was taken to undo the parliamentary immunity. This Tuesday has become an even more important event: you and I have approved in our first reading of the new election rules, which we hope will allow people to take more of their representatives to the council, rather than continue to have representatives of the oligarchs. However, as head of Parliament's Anti-Corruption Committee, I would like to point out that the most important decision I think is the decision to create an Anti-Corruption Court, which is to start sending for the top-corruption players, is still being suppressed. The primary responsibility lies with the President of Ukraine. You know, according to today's legislation, it's for the President to initiate the creation of judges, and that's what the Venice Commission has drawn attention to. But the president is still playing the game with the majority of parliament: I can't make it, the MP's bill hasn't been called off, and the votes for calling back in the room aren't in spite of our efforts. I want to tell Peter Dusty. This peace and tranquillity that you see under Parliament does not have to mislead you. Lying, stalling, playing games with society will necessarily end badly. If you want to continue to be president of Ukraine, businessman Porzenko has to resign. The Constitution forbids the President, as do we people's deputies, as do government officials, from doing business. In the coming days, war veterans for independence and not only who are now under the Council will strike at one of the sources of the illegal enrichment of Peter Poroshenko with a group of others. And I ask you to stop playing with people's patience. There must be rules in this country that make the Anti-Corruption Court the most important.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u144	Thank you. I now give Sergey Lechchenka my word. I'm the only one I want to emphasize again. I've admitted that the phrase "ears" is not correct. I think it's important that MPs don't beat each other up and admit their mistakes, and publicly, too. I'm sorry I took advantage of my stewardship, but that's very correct. Sergei Leschenko, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u145	Well, then I'm going to take advantage of the right, and I'm going to remind you that the Head of the Supreme Council, as well as the deputies, are the same equal MPs as all the others who simply perform the executive functions of the chairman of the session. And we don't have senior and junior deputies, all the same in our rights. And when it is complained that the law was passed by young deputies and then became one that did not work, the law was signed by the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, unfortunately, or fortunately, it was worth reading, or simply vetoing, and then not translating responsibility into the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But my statement is not about this, but about another issue that is equally important for our country, the question of how our state-owned enterprises have turned into "active cows" for corrupts who are used to store money on their offshore accounts or on party shadow accounts and then to finance from these money and deputies and officials and ministers and eventually to go to the next election to continue this continuous cycle of corruption. So today, we don't have appointed heads of dozens of state-owned companies, and this is about enterprises that are under the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and so on. And today, on the hour of questions to the government, I would like to ask the Prime Minister why this question has been completely stopped. Because if, in the days of previous Minister Abramavicus, at least a little bit has been assigned to the competitions of heads of state enterprises, and we see that there are completely different approaches and new budget fillings and so on, this process is now being sabotaged by the first Deputy Prime Minister of Cuba and his subordinates. And you can see that we have, for example, a merger of a mining and chemical company that hasn't had full leadership for a few years, and there's a long-standing corruption scheme that's been going on at the hands of its shareholders, and no one is releasing this management, and Bolverg, for example, that's being investigated in the course of the investigation, is still a foundation that works on this enterprise. There's no manager on the Electric Mass, on the Ukrichtrasamiak, which appears in a letter to Kononenek, which was brought before the court by Abromavichus as an example of pressure on him, and there is no leader. We've had as much as a year and a half as a bill on the management of state companies, but no supervisory board has been set up. And this sabotage is taking place in the eyes of the whole country to talk about what we have here is a decisive fight against corruption, which unfortunately doesn't appear to be that the Supreme Council finishes the work that was put on it in the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Court, which doesn't go on with us assigning honest leadership to state enterprises. So in this situation, I have a direct question to the Prime Minister, who I hope will answer why there are no appointments for his premieres? Why are not oversight councils made up of honest coworkers, honest managers who worked for the state budget, rather than the personal flows of political parties and individual corrupters? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u146	Thank you. We can only agree that we all have equal rights. Everyone has the right to discuss the bill. I want to continue the meeting for exactly 10 minutes, colleagues, and say that in the meantime we will be able to speak to the deputies of the Aresonks, also Silantiev and Shurma, and the national deputy of the Shurma, to whom his colleague Musei conveys the word. Please, the People's Deputies of the Aresonks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u147	Madam-in-chief, honourable colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I once again give a speech on behalf of a group of Ukrainian national deputies who are members of the Association of People's Democratic People's Deputies, and on another occasion have to declare that rights are not exercised, the State's commitment to such a category of our citizens as have suffered from an accident at the Chernobyl nuclear station. There was a recent meeting of a group of National Deputies with Prime Minister Groissman, who was also attended by the Minister of Finance. And we talked about the need to anticipate in the 2018 budget the state's commitment, the cost of providing medical, health care for the affected citizens, the funds that would be channelled, the court's decision, compensation for the lives of the black people lost, the cost of health and nutrition for the children, the areas affected by the ČES accident. Today, there is a huge debt on the part of the State to carry out and paralyze these governmental obligations and programs. The Prime Minister agreed that such finances should be foreseen in the next financial period. But what I'm going to tell you is that next year's budget is projected to be 1.9 billion dollars, which is equal to the same financial liabilities as 2015, 2016 and this year. Despite rising prices, inflation continues and so forth. So today we need to think and, of course, look for a source of substitution, but once again I emphasize, the state has a commitment to this category of citizens and must seek ways to implement them. Today, as a member of an association, we offer what might be a mechanism, and we offer what sources compensation can be made for. But what matters most is that, unfortunately, there is no understanding of the importance of this issue. Instead, we talk about what exists in the state more perhaps urgent problems. What needs to be done today is to adjust the military, the security and defence issues, the issue of medical reform and all that -- it's completely understandable. But tell me, please, how do we care for people’s health if the Chernobyl funding program has even failed to provide quality medical care to patients who have suffered from an accident at CAES, including cancer. And such examples, I could give a lot more, so I now urge everyone to unite around the draft laws that promote the restoration of the social rights of the Chernobylites. And thanks to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u148	Thank you, mate. Please, Silantiev, the National MP, you will be invited to the floor and then to the final address.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u149	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Lacha. Dear Ukrainians! The political season is going on, and we all see how hot he has been since the first days of the Supreme Council's work. Sadly, however, nothing new is happening in the work of an active government. All of their work is to meet the demands and demands of international financial donors to get a new loan and to hang it with a debt yoke on our necks with you. Meanwhile, Ukraine’s debt alone should pay more than $10 billion the following year. And in his last speech to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President did not say where the money would be taken. But I want to stop at another place right now. On what subject, unfortunately, is raised in the Supreme Council only by the faction of the Radical Party of Laška. This refers to the health of our children, the growing generation, the health of the Ukrainian nation. In my analysis of the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, over a year and a half, how many bills have been put forward, which in one way or another have been linked to the development of physical culture and sports, the creation of health-saving technologies, the population of physical culture and the safety of our children. Thus, six bills were passed. Of these, three bills, which either the committee turned back, or the government itself turned back and called off at the beginning of the new political season. So there's three left. And those three bills, which are either purely technical or not, let's say they're slightly improving, or they're about physical culture and sports. What does this indicate? But this shows that it is not interesting for those in charge of the Ministry of Profiles to make sure that children in our country are healthy and successful so that they do not go through the driveways, basements, and instillations to grow up, not to be addicts, alcoholics, and criminals, but to grow up to be healthy, successful, and powerful people to glorify not only their city and country as a whole but to make them successful. Why is this happening? And because you need to put your enigma first, not your own mercantile ambitions, but to realize that you came into this executive power to do this country better than it was before you, not the other way around. The Radical Party is aware of this and is aware of its responsibility. That's why we're trying to adopt drafts, and we're initiating those bills that will allow us today to get the country out of that political, humanitarian, economic default that today's government has led it to. And so I say with full responsibility from this rostrum that if the faction, when the Radical Party comes to power, our first main task is to create conditions for the Ukrainian nation to be healthy, successful and strong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u150	This is the final performance for today under the heading "Razne" by the national deputy of Shurma. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Igor Šurma. Dear colleagues who remain in this room are very few, of the two dozen national deputies, I am not addressing you today, I am addressing Ukrainian citizens. If Ukrainian citizens don't know what a double Yanus is, what double standards are, I'd like to say, that's all that fills the aura today, unfortunately, the sessional hall of the Supreme Council. Where am I going? I'll bring you back in 2014, this room had a coalition of 302 people, and it was possible to change the Constitution. At the time. At that time, he was on second reading and consideration in the Hall for approval of the Opposition Law. Unfortunately, the bill was not adopted. And this trend towards the European community, where there is power and opposition in every parliament, has given us a brake. What led to this? Over a period of time, as always, the revolution consumes its heroes -- the coalition is broken up, there is no longer any claim today that on the basis of the treaty, the Coalition Agreement we are going to make any decisions. They showed up. There are people who have come out of the coalition but have not become opposition because there is no such law today. So here, I want to talk to these people. If you have left the coalition, please step down from the board of directors of the Supreme Council committees that you have received through your presence in the coalition. I'm not a supporter of the Radical Party, but I must admit that Lalashka's leader's position is worthy of respect. And their husband, their member yesterday, was able to have his office removed because they were not in the coalition, and this issue was not addressed for a very long time. I want to remind you that there are 38 people in the coalition who are now in the so - called opposition. Among them are seven committee heads, six first deputies, 20 deputies and five secretaries. They're all getting payments from 500 to 150 bucks. It's a sellout because you're not writing a statement for this money today. Why aren't you ashamed? That's 93,000 every month. It's a million a year, it's 5 million for your cadence. If you don't want that money and you're funny, get rid of it, but you need pontae, because when you come to people, you're all over the place saying that you're the Supreme Council's leadership. Once again, you want to be true to people and have respect for them -- almost respect for yourself. You're paying a lot of attention to the coalition today, but you're left with the very essence.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-10-m0.u152	Dear colleague and distinguished colleagues who have stayed for this minute in the session room, first, as chairman, I want to thank both colleagues from coalition factions, and from the opposition for a sufficiently productive session week when we passed important bills and laws. And in the first reading of the privatization bill, which I call for change, for the next second reading. We also adopted another set of important laws. We're talking to you for a little while now, because the next, next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, November 14. I would like to remind all of you, Mr. President, that this week in Ukraine was the day of the Ukrainian language, and I am pleased to say that this week only the national language was spoken from the Supreme Council. At the same time, it's perfect for all the speakers, all the factions. And that's absolutely wonderful. I wish you all a good weekend. And until the meeting on November 14 at 10 a.m. at the next morning's meeting. Good-bye. All good weekends. I'm going to work now, just like you, on the papers.
