ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Can we have the registration? People's deputies please register. Please. [[10:04:00]] 366 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to welcome you, the entire Ukrainian people, with the completion of official visa-free procedures for Ukraine. I would like to point out that all the laws, all the requirements facing Ukraine, have been fulfilled through the work and activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All decisions were made here in difficult discussions. It's a very difficult decision. But the Supreme Council of Ukraine has demonstrated the ability to make these decisions and, in fact, thanks to these decisions, we have been able to come to a decision that has a great symbolic aspect that makes our way to Europe irreversible. And I want to welcome all the Ukrainians and also all the colleagues with this decision that you're making in the European Parliament and with the official procedures that are coming to an end in the near future. Congratulations, fellows! I would also like to welcome our fellow national deputies on their birthday today. Alexander Ivanovich Dubininin is also welcomed by Viktor Mikolaiovich Ostapchuk. [[Applause]] And I would like to point out that today, in the morning, we have two key blocks to consider, this is the issue of housing and utilities, very important issues that have been brought forward since last week, as well as the issue of information, a block that the committee has been preparing for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for two months. So I call on all my colleagues to work actively during the day. But our day on Tuesday begins with presentations by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. And I'm asking you to prepare for the record of all factions. And I want to remind you that the sequence of statements is going to be done through the recording. And I'd like all the factions to record a statement from the rostrum. Please record. Please sign up. Labazuk Sergey Petrovich, representative of the "will of the people" group, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Today, Parliament began its work after a month’s break. Over the past few weeks, the MP's "will of the people" group has received many appeals from citizens who are concerned about one of the most painful issues: what will happen to their land. People fear they might lose their land. I know that very well because I've had dozens of meetings in the district where I heard that. What do we see today? Only statements from political parties, from the profile agrarian ministry, and even from the Ministry of Finance that they would draft laws on land circulation. And some factions have already announced in advance that a referendum on the continuation of the moratorium has been held. Our MP group "The Will of the People" is opposed to canceling the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. We are confident that decentralization reform is going well, where the key issue is to allow the territorial communities to manage land resources. The position of the group is clear, prior to such responsible actions as opening up the land market, a number of measures must be taken, namely: addressing the issues of non-exploited rations, land and agriculture; inventuring agricultural land; preparing a land protection programme to effectively monitor their use; creating market conditions for land owners to really feel like owners. There is still a risk that because of the total poverty, peasants will simply sell their land for a penny, as speculators will lead to people not being able to sell their land at an objective cost. A group of MPs from all the political factions that should be working on a single road map, as we have to move on the land market, has been created and is currently working at the Ministry of the APC. We are sure that this group can produce results and work out a number of legislative initiatives that will result from the compromise of all political forces and will meet the challenges of our citizens. Measure seven times, but once cut off, this national wisdom is more appropriate today than ever. Clearly, this is a step that requires a wise approach. This is important because the theme of the start of the earth for today is one of the key and painful in our nation. So today I appeal to everyone for wisdom, not to politicize the issue, but to come up scrupulously to work out this road map as this society and our nation today want. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u3	Thank you. Andrew Shipko, Rebirth Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u4	Dear national MPs, dear voters, brothers and sisters, Christ Easter! I wish you peace, goodness, God’s blessing and a just attitude from the State. It's because today, under the walls of the Supreme Council, there are the people of the Chernobyl heroes who built our future with their health 31 years ago. And I'm asking you, do we have the right to take it from them? This is 2 million people in the Chernobyl disaster and incapacitated, 110,000 people with disabilities. I have in my hands signatures from all parts of our country: Kiev, Odessa, Raven, Zitomir, Kharkiv, Dnipro, the city of Pochrov, the city of Nicopol, the city of Marganese -- thousands of signatures of liquidators. And people demand one, sprat-wort-wort-wort! In our country, there is such a fashion that we remember Chernobyl heroes only before the years of tragedy, and who knows how they live, how they walk in courts to get their benefits. In general, the Chernobyl Protection Act in our country has changed fifty times in 25 years, and it has been removed more and more each time. Today, the state has allocated 120 dollars a year, no free medicine, no free medical care. What do we need? We need a rebirth, a rebirth of justice. And we demand for the disabled and the groups to make a pension of not less than 12,000 dollars, for the disabled of Group II -- not less than 10,000 dollars, for the disabled of Group III -- 7.5,000 dollars, for children with disabilities, the pension must be at least 3,000 800 dollars. And that's what we need to do in law enforcement. And to prohibit the Cabinet of Ministers from restricting and correcting Chernobyl pensions, as has been the case for many years. "The Rebirth Party, together with the public, has drafted Bill 6292, which will not only return deserving pensions, raise aid for recovery, but mainly restore justice. Dear Mr. Head! I want to give you these signatures today, these signatures in support of Bill 6292, and say that it's up to you to do this justice. Please put the daily bill 6292 into order and in this room, we will support and vote. And it's not going to be before the electoral year, and it's not going to be for the electoral pierra, it's going to be because it has to do it honestly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u5	Thank you. Ivan Krulko, Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u6	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Indeed, Ukraine has gone a long way, which lasted for more than 12 years on the path of a visa-free regime with the European Union. I want to remind you that in 2005 a visa-free regime began for Ukraine when Ukraine unilaterally cancelled visas for the countries of the European Union, the United States of America, Canada and Japan. And this is where the foreign minister then Boris Tarasyuk in the government of Yulia Timoshenko took this initiative to start the visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens. But at the same time, I would like to ask and consult you, with the hall and with the Ukrainian people, or are we approaching the European Union? Are we starting to live by European values? Are we starting to become a country that should claim membership in the European Union in the future? Is there a rule of law in Ukraine? A year ago, the "Fatherland" faction brought the dragon's gas tariffs to trial. A year ago! We can't get a decision in court either in favor or in favor. The court is blocked. The court changed the composition of the court, and the court’s chief of staff was introduced for one reason: to block the decision on the gas case. The Fatherland, along with the farmers' association, held a gathering in Kiev, which brought together two thousand 300 delegates and initiated a referendum on land reform, as to whether the land could be an object for sale? And what does the unknown organization bring to trial and provide them with a lawsuit in order to claim the right of millions of Ukrainians to speak in a nationwide referendum on this and how do they see the future of the agricultural land? Can you please tell me that we have the rule of law? Is that a guarantee of the right to a fair trial? Is that the judicial reform that was carried out in the Ukrainian State? Absolutely not, it is the result that Ukraine does not live by European values, but it needs to be done in a different direction. And another example, all international institutions require the adoption of the Anticorruption Court Act. And a group of national MPs from different factions have submitted to Parliament an appropriate bill to implement the decision made by the President of Ukraine regarding the establishment of a High Anti-Corruption Court and it has been created. So, do we have the right to legislative initiative? No, it's being followed, it's being taken from us, because it's preparing a decision that this bill should actually be removed from registration. I believe that at this rate we are approaching, not the European Union, but Asia, with authoritarian methods of governance, without democracy and the rule of law. And it's not a visa-free regime that lights us up, it's closing any possibilities for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u7	Arthur Gerasimov, Block of Petra Dustenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! On 11 May, the EU Council of Ministers finally approved the visa-free regime. We have heard this a number of times from today’s rostrum, but what I want to say is that it is a huge event. Tomorrow the President of Ukraine will participate in the signing ceremony in Strasbourg. This is the historic achievement of Ukraine: the recognition of the Ukrainian people as part of the European world, the symbol of the final and irreversible departure from Moscow’s orbit. The EU's door will open to our citizens in mid-June, and this is a great opportunity for society as a whole, and first and foremost for young people to get to know Europe, European values and high standards of living. But the visa-free regime is slightly more than just affordable travel, primarily an image guarantee of Ukraine's credibility as an international partner of the European Union. Carnage gives additional impetus to the development of many sectors of the Ukrainian economy, all of which are additional funds in the Ukrainian budget, and that is, more jobs for our citizens. A talented, progressive Ukrainian youth who is involved in emerging technologies is able to quickly find partners or investments in the European market. This will enable them to work closely with foreigners while on their own land. Moreover, it will facilitate the participation of Ukrainian experts from various fields in international conferences, exhibitions, and other activities where experts share experiences. At the same time, visalessness is the confidence and recognition of the international partners of real reforms and systemic changes in Ukraine, which are carried out jointly by the President, the Supreme Council and all of us. I would like to remind you that the Ukrainian side has complied with nearly one and a half hundred clear EU requirements for the introduction of visa-free visas, in particular with regard to increasing the fight against corruption, initiating electronic declaration and other fundamental changes. By the way, in fact, yesterday, Derzkomstat published data that in the first quarter of 2017, GDP increased by 2.4 percent. This suggests a positive trend, the third quarter of the country in a row ensures GDP growth. Despite the accusations of political opponents, lovers of all kinds of betrayal, the authorities of real affairs and real indicators take a professional and consistent approach to the restoration and development of the Ukrainian economy. But can we calm down? Not at all! Much work is yet to be done. Parliament is facing enormous challenges this week: strengthening the security of the state; continuing judicial reform (we do not have the right to reduce the pace of one of our nation's fundamental reforms); promoting investment to create new jobs (please join us all around the adoption of a system law on society with limited responsibility); ensuring quality education for the young generation – the future of our state, as well as the protection of children's rights; informing agrarian policy. In view of this, the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenka urges the Supreme Council to gather together, and as we have done many times, to prove, not with slogans, but with real support for reforms in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u9	From the People's Front to the word, Maxim Burbak is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u10	Dear Ukrainians, friends, fellow brothers! You've seen that at the so-called May Day celebrations, the fifth column of the Kremlin was trying to stir the political situation in the country. And I am deeply grateful to the National Police, who responded and ensured order in our streets, and I am deeply grateful to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the brilliant replacement of personnel and we responded to this rematch of "teachers" that took place in Dniepri. But despite all these events, I would like to highlight the two major and landmark historical events that have taken place in recent times: Ukraine has been granted visa-free treatment with Europe, Janukovic's money has been confiscated -- two events, two signs that justice prevails and Ukraine from the dark past of Yanukovic and his gang moves to the free world. We thank our European partners for the support they have given us. I would like to remind you that the government of Arsenija Yatsenuk was signed by the Association Agreement with the European Union at a time when the city of the Russians was in our territory. More than 140 normative acts were adopted in this plenary room. Tens of times in this room, Prime Minister Yatsenuk argued and argued that the bills needed to be adopted were necessary. Today, thank you to the entire People's Front faction for the community and the command spirit, for the state's position, for the faith and love of the country, for seeing clearly the goal and not being tired of going to it, unlike many others. The adoption of laws for a visa-free regime has become the cornerstone of reforms in our country – the fight against corruption, reform of the justice system, protection of citizens' rights and security. We set up important strategic transformations in Ukraine. The People's Front will continue to stand for decisions that lead Ukraine to Europe and NATO. Arseny Yatsenuk, leader of the People's Front, is now on a business visit to the United States. The leader does not stop actively negotiating – the formation of a global anti-Creemlian, anti-putinian coalition, is a priority for Ukraine's foreign policy. In the Americas, important meetings with White House, Dresden, and congressmen from both political forces are taking place in Arsenija Yatsenuk. Today I would also like to thank the People's Front team, the leaders of our political force: Arsenija Yatsenyuk, Alexandr Turchinov, Arsen Avakov, Andrey Paruba, our coalition partners and the parliamentary majority, the leadership of the Attorney General's Office for the confiscation of the money stolen by the Yanukovich regime. We've seen a lot in this room after two years of "The People's Front" standing up for what special confiscation needs to be done, you've seen who are the friends of Yanukovic who stand up for his money. We've seen the positions of Eurooptimists, of Eurosceptics that this money is supposed to be stolen. But now the money has been returned to the Ukraine budget, and it is clear that we now have to unite to advise on what to spend it on. There's a bill on the People's Front that predicts that this money needs to be spent.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u11	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u12	to increase the security, national security, and half of that money is paid to socially vulnerable populations. But the specific confiscation is not over, more than $300 million are also arrested in accounts outside of Ukraine, and we must, after all, pass the Law on Seizure in order to get them back. Kurchenka's money, Arbosov, Zacharychenka's money must be put back into the Ukraine budget. The money they stole from the people must be returned.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u13	Thank you. From the Opposition Block is Yuri Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has not worked for a month. We believe that in a state of crisis in the economy, the social sphere, and the armed conflict in the east, such a vacation was unacceptable. The absence of parliament has resulted in an even more acute social crisis. This was shown on May 2nd in Odessa and May 9th throughout the country. The authorities have done nothing to reconcile people and to find common ground, on the contrary, they continue to impose contradictions in society with regard to historical and linguistic events, and with regard to the order of the day, interfaith relations. Over a million people attended the Day of Victory, causing the hostile response of today’s authorities. Pressure on opposition is on the rise. The office of the Opposition Block was burned down in Dniper, and our one-party member was taken out of the house, beaten and filmed on video. We have an unobjective investigation into the attack and events in Dniper. Therefore, I would like you to consider this a parliamentary request to the Attorney General's Office and the National Police. This clearly contradicts the European view of freedom of speech and expression. We welcome the granting of visa-free travel to Ukraine, although the price and tariffs of the Ukrainian people are not soon enough to travel to Monaco or Warsaw, especially given the constant increase in tariffs. Yes, under the noise of May Day, the government reduced subsidies and reduced the social standards of consumption of gas, electricity, and heat, which would result in a further increase in costs for each Ukrainian family. In turn, a pension form and a free sale of land. Everything the government has promised the IMF is aimed at suppressing the population of Ukraine. I would like to draw the attention of the people's deputies to a message from the President of the United States regarding the peace process in the eastern part of the country. We welcome our words, and we hope that the coalition will not ignore the U.S. President's call and begin to implement, at last, a peace plan. And to the end. Once again, we demand the government to show society a program of recovery from the socio-economic crisis and a package of laws under this program. We promise to support the program if it is really directed and working for the people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u15	Thank you, my dear fellow! Please, from the Self-Help faction, the leader of the Oleg Beresuk faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u16	Your Majesty, the presiding lady, the honourable ladies and gentlemen! The European State is a state that carefully creates conditions and conditions for the safe, comfortable living and working of its citizens. Safety is the foundation. Last night there was a brutal and brutally beaten MP of the Mikolai City Council of Self-Help, Viacheslav Opanasenko. He's in intensive care today. He was threatened for a week, this decent, normal, industrious man. But no one paid attention. It's like we're in the mood to catch prankers, but we're not looking for real criminals! Today, there is a clear crisis in the law - enforcement system, which is a destabilizing, not a stabilizing force. Because he punishes not criminals, but sometimes he takes criminals from those who help them; he punishes those who fight corruption, who fight criminal groups, who blackmail and rob the state. We demand that law enforcement agencies, the Attorney General's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs finally do the work, not by serving political and oligarchic groups in this Parliament and in this state. And it's no coincidence that the Anti-Corruption Court Act, which concludes the system and may result in the punishment of those who rob that state for years, is rejected and not considered in Parliament. And today this is the basic requirement of our European and American partners. And one more thing. The state is security, but the Ukrainian state in the person of the President, the Parliament and the government does not recognize the reality, almost four years of war. The people who live in occupied territories are ineligible, for neither the law of Ukraine nor the law of the occupying person is in force, for it denies either international law. Today, the military prisoners of Ukraine are not de jure prisoners of war and do not exercise the rights of the international community. Today, those who have left their homes are not refugees who have suffered occupation but are ordinary displaced persons who have suffered for unknown virtual causes. It is the task of the state, the European State, to create a secure, comfortable living and working environment for every Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u17	Thank you. Please, from the Radical Party, the leader of the Oleg Lazko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u18	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, authorities in secret are preparing two so-called reforms — pension reform and land reform. It's said that when they agree with the International Monetary Fund, with someone else, but it's done in secret from you, it's done in secret from Parliament. Our faction and I think it's totally unacceptable, because the issue of the land, the issue of retirement, applies to every Ukrainian. And when the government agrees with these so - called reforms with the International Monetary Fund, the government should remember that they are not the branch of the International Monetary Fund, with all due respect for our financial partners, which should be the government of Ukraine. Therefore, the Radical Party faction insists that both pension and land reform, key reforms for our country, be discussed in as public, transparent, broad a format as possible. We believe that these two key issues — land, retirement — should be discussed at the national round table involving trade unions, employers, various political forces represented in Parliament and outside Parliament. Every Ukrainian person needs to know how much work he needs to do when he retires, what will be the conditions for this pension. Last week, I was in Mariupola at Illich's combination, in Pavlovgrad at Charity Checkout, at the Fed in Kharkiv, at the Sici Motor in Zaporozhye, and at many other businesses. And people ask one question about what pension they will receive, whether they will be able to work, implement their products to feed their children. The Radical Party faction insists that the goal of pension reform should be not to increase retirement age, but to increase pensions, it is impossible without creating jobs, without a radical increase in wages and other incomes of Ukrainians, because when people have a copy of wages, as a result, they will receive a copy pension, despite the fact that all their lives have been hard to work on. And the second question is that of the earth. The government wants to sell the land by telling them that an investor is coming and that it will make the peasants bathe like weeds in butter. You're lying! If there's a sale of land, there'll be transnational corporations, and the villagers will be thugs, there'll be no cows in the village, there'll be no pigs, there'll be no jobs for our peasant. That is why the Radical Party insists on changes to the Constitution in order for a Ukrainian peasant, a Ukrainian farmer, to be approved by the master of our native Ukrainian land.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u19	The presidency was called for a break from two factions: the People's Front and the Radical Party. But they're willing to replace it with a tribune. And I invite you to the word of Yuri Berezu, the representative of the People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u20	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear colleagues! Here is a representative of the Fifth Column, speaking of the events of May 9th, talking about the fact that the authorities had not done anything. But that humiliation that the participants in the Eastern liberation contests received during the so - called 9th of May in the city of Dniper did not infuriate me; it caused a mass, emphasis, mass meeting of ATO participants. Those who protect, including this hall, were severely beaten by aunts whose puppet guide sits in this room. And he's not just sitting there. Just as he organized mass fighting in 2014 on January 26th, just as he did during the events in 2004-2005 in the city of Dniper, unfortunately we just missed it by the ears. I would point out that there was a humiliated warrior, there were beaten soldiers, not just soldiers, invalids, who got their disability in war, in trenches, with guns in their hands protecting the country. And that's why I'm stressing that impunity violates and gives birth to a relapse. On this day for our hall, for the entire House of Deputies, I call for all the democratic, democratic, emphasis! We've started a lot of good things in Parliament, but it's overwhelming now to finish a few clear, correct things. We must ban the Colorado tape -- it's a symbol of the destruction of the Zaporozhye Sichi! I remind you, the symbol of the destruction of the Zaporozhye Sichi! And it doesn't matter where they are, in Odessa, in Dniper or in Melitopolis, to manipulate it and not just manipulate it. And that's why I'm calling on the Attorney General to bring him into our hall and get rid of the MP's in touch with the mass-disturbing organizer in the city of Dnipri Villukla. Mr. Attorney General!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u21	30 seconds, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u22	If we don't do it now, the participants in the liberation contests, the veterans of the Third World War or the First National, modern, will come out and do their own judgment. So let's just make this legal and make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u23	Another statement from two groups: "The will of the people" and "The Rebirth." Three minutes of the show is Vladimir Litwin, and we're moving on to daytime issues, colleague. Please come into the hall. In three minutes, we'll be moving on to the day-to-day issues. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u24	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The situation in which the central authorities of the executive branch do not respond in any way to the catastrophic, ecological situation that resulted from the repeated mass discharge of the dirt into the Homoora and Svetna Rivers on the night of May 9 - 10, 2017. I emphasize that this catastrophic situation has already become systemic and everyday as a result of the uncontrolled activities of industrial enterprises, such as the Poninkow cardboard and paper factory in the Polonian district of Hmielnick. A general disregard for environmental requirements this time has led to unacceptable pollution of water, a horrendous poisonous stench, which has resulted in irreversible processes that have a negative impact on people’s lives and health. It can be said that all the living are killed in advance, the environment is damaged, and we are dealing with a local environmental disaster. It has now touched 20,000 people in the Baran region and will touch nearly 60,000 people who drink water from the River Sąd. All previous queries and queries find the standard answers in which these facts are found, there is no action, at best there is a people's conduct, and they close the problem. None of Kiev’s leaders have ever been to the site of this ecological disaster, simply signed, waved papers to conclude that everything is going to be better and better. People just don't trust anyone anymore, they're doing things like covering up a route that had space on May 10, 2017. The demands of people are obvious, and authorities must take adequate measures and give people a minimum standard of living normal. That is why I am calling again today on the President and Prime Minister of Ukraine, the next day, on the basis of a request and a request for appropriate instructions regarding the use of all comprehensive measures and punishment of the guilty. Humans should not suffer! Mr. President and Prime Minister, give the order to have the heads of the relevant ministries and services finally come up from their comfortable chairs and look at the place that's going on. So people can look them in the eye and say everything they think about those who constantly reform the country and actually kill the rest of their lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u25	Give it to you? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u26	Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request, a request from the MP, a request from the President of Ukraine and a statement from the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And I'm going to remind you that the correspondence on this point is already more than 100 sheets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u27	So, colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. The first issue is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act to ensure the right to higher education for persons whose residence is temporarily occupied by Ukraine. Number 6116. Colleagues, I will be the first to put to the vote a motion for a reduced procedure. The bill is unifying, it is actually supported by all factions and I think it will be correct if we listen to the committee and consider it as a reduced procedure. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote, please take your seats and I'm voting on the proposal to consider draft Law 6116 as a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:43:07]] For a hundred and Please come into the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. Ready to vote? So I am voting once again on the proposal to review the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act to ensure the right to higher education for persons whose residence is temporarily occupied by Ukraine (number 6116). Colleagues, please support. Please vote, please support. We are voting on the simplified procedure 6116. Please vote. [[10:44:36]] For-143 Colleagues, seven votes is not enough. I'm going to put it to the vote again. If we don't, we're going in full procedure. I want to address those, especially the committees whose blocks are on the table today. We'll just be able not to get to those bills if we don't work effectively. This bill, supported by all the factions of Parliament, I think it's adequate for us to consider it as a reduced procedure, especially since the committee recommends only to accept it as a basis. Just for the basis. I'm asking you to take up jobs. Please prepare for the vote. You're ready, aren't you? So I'm voting on a proposal -- a review of draft Law 6116 under a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. We're voting on our colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote! [[10:46:06]] For-157. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Bill 6116 is a bill on discrimination, not quotas. It's a bill on very simple two messiahs for temporarily occupied Crimea, that at the legislative level we invite Crimean graduates to study in Ukraine that we are waiting for them here. And the second very important postage is that we offer these graduates a border of intelligence, a border of education in Zaporozhye, Mikolai, Herson, Odessa. In the area of these areas, I want to say, there are 120 higher education institutions and whoever thinks it's a reservation is deeply mistaken, it's a border and it's very important, no less important than the codeon of the army. Dear colleagues, I would like this bill not to divide us, this bill should unite us and for the first time on the legislative level we should tell the children who have received education in the temporarily occupied Crimea: we are waiting for you, yes, we are allowing you to enter without the ZNZ, yes, this is a thousand places, but we are waiting for you there and we will do everything we can to get you there to learn. It's an extra thousand places before the government order. We're going to find funds for this because it's a small cost of 25 million, but it's a signal that we're not leaving our children there. Moreover, I would like to say that there is an Order of the Ministry of Education from June 14, 2016, number 667, which gives this right to only 12 universities. We're expanding this circle to 120 universities. So please support this bill, vote for it, and show that Crimean children are Ukrainian children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u29	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Andrey Vasilovich Shinkovic from Peter Prashenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u31	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters, the faction of the block of Peter Prashenko supports these important changes to the Higher Education Act. We're a year ago, literally a year ago, that's exactly what they did for the children of the occupied Donbas, and now we're doing it for the children of the occupied Crimea. What does that do? This primarily allows children who graduate from schools in Crimea to enter a more simplified system of higher education institutions in mainland Ukraine. Our main task is to get the children out of the occupied Crimea and to do their best to complete the schools in Ukraine, to stay here, and to be really citizens of the Ukrainian State. So this system, these changes that we're making to the Higher Education Act, they first allow children to pass exams in higher education institutions without a PDA, they allow them to do this in all higher education institutions in Ukraine by expanding the scope of such educational institutions. And so we take a step to meet those children who live in the occupied Crimea. Everyone please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u32	Thank you. Romanova Anna Anatoliyevna, please. Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u33	I give the word to Semensi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u34	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, Mr. Golovo, the aggressor of the Russian Federation is taking steps to deepen the integration of the Crimea. And the aboriginals in this regard are a very convenient tool. The creation of separate budget places for them in other areas of the Russian Federation is likely to be a planned, well-designed policy for the assimilation of Crimean children. And today, the bill's symmetrical response to such an aggressor's policy is undeniably worthy of attention. Self-help supports removing artificial bureaucratic barriers to the admission of Crimean children to Ukrainian higher education institutions, but we warn colleagues about any interference in the external independent evaluation system. I am deeply convinced that the KND system was created, perhaps not the only successful reform of the education system in Ukraine's independent era. And any intervention is dangerous. Perhaps we should consider and temporarily downgrade the DMO ball for the introduction of such children. But, for God's sake, don't ruin the system itself. The other one. The underprivileged conditions should not be extended only to persons living in the Crimea today. Because what's different about the children of those families that left Crimea in 2014, 2015, 2016, precisely as a result of external aggression and as a result of occupation. Because today the norm proposed in the project seems somewhat discriminatory to me. Next. I think that the proposed quotas in several areas of Ukraine are unfair. This rule should be extended to all higher educational institutions in Ukraine. Because any quota today, whether territorial or numerical, leads to corruption and abuse. And the last. We must stop the practice when we set certain conditions for the children of the occupied Donbas, for the occupied Crimea. And finally, I call on the Chief of the Supreme Council to introduce an updated draft bill on temporarily occupied territories of 6,400.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u35	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u36	It is this law that recognizes the reality. Today, the status of the occupied Donbas and the occupied Crimea is unique. Because one reason is the aggression of the Russian Federation. Therefore, we urge the session hall, the Head of the Supreme Council, to consider immediately the Law on Interimly Occupied Territories, which will restore justice and recognize reality, and protect our children, including in the occupied territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u37	Thank you. Sergey Eutuszek gives Rybczy a word for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u38	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. A team of co-authors who care about the higher education institutions moved is calling for the adoption of the bill. And you know, we've been systematically working on this issue for the third year in a row. We thank the Hall for the adoption last year of two bills that have greatly improved the conditions for the admission of children from occupied Donetsk and Luhansk to higher levels. And as a result, thousands of children have moved from occupied territory to Ukraine. So we've saved thousands of lives, and they're working and learning in Ukraine. We have also given the opportunity to move higher education institutions to fight, not bureaucracy, but for the development of their own institutions, and so we ask for the support of this bill. The adoption of these laws has also resulted in the unification of certain heights. For example, the Tavrian cherry, which now moved to Kiev, offered to join him, their premises at the Donetsk Conservatory, in order to create a powerful cultural center of the Donetsk-Krimsk region. And there's going to be a very interesting program, and I invite all the graduates who are interested in this direction to join this higher education facility next year. I think for Ukraine it's also very good news, it's going to be our soft power response to this aggressor. However, there are also problems – the implementation of these bills. And I'm also going to the Ministry of Education, and I'm going to the appropriate authorities. The Donetsk National Academy of Construction and Architecture, which has now moved from Makiyivka to Kramatrski, decided to join the Kramatar Professional Building School. This is a bill, and we know that once the PTU is transferred to the regional level, they have problems. They even have an investor in the Czech Republic who's willing to invest in the room, warm it up, create conditions for learning. Yet, the Ministry of Education, along with Donetska VCA, is taking responsibility, although the law makes it clear that this can be done. I'm asking you to put down all bureaucratic barriers, implement the law and let the higher levels evolve. We're voting for the law!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u39	From the Opposition Block, Yuri Pavlenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u40	Regrettably, three years after the annexation of Crimea and military action in Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers failed to provide clear programs and answers to protect the rights of children who have suffered from armed conflict of military action and are hostages of annexation. Regrettably, no clear program has been adopted today; rather, there are many legal decisions that discriminate against the rights of children of Crimea and Donbas. Sadly, the bill is not perfect either. It also contains a wide range of discriminatory norms, including restrictions on the territory of schools where children of Crimea can enter only four areas. I am sure that children from Crimea should be able to learn both in Lviv and Kiev and in Kharkiv and in Dnipropetrovsk, and in other best universities in Ukraine, and that should be the subject of a government order. And it's weird to have a quota in a thousand places, and if there's a thousand one or a thousand 500 children, how do you figure out who's better and who's worse? Again, we try and create certain conditions for discrimination against a child's right. At the same time, this law is a step forward. Yes, he is imperfect. But at least for children, parents from Crimea, how they can obtain education in Ukraine’s universities is the answer. That's why we're going to support this law. But once again, we demand the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from the coalition to resolve the problems immediately and ensure the rights of children who have suffered from armed conflict today and who are experiencing problems in connection with the annexation of Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u41	Thank you. So, just a minute from Rebirth Group Pisarenko, obviously. Turn on Pisarenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I want to say that the subject is really relevant. I was visited at the last citizens' receptions by Kharkiv students who lived in occupied territory and are now completing their residence in Kharkiv and finishing their bonds. And there's another problem with me registering Bill 6142 is what they do when they can't. They don't have anywhere to go, and there's nowhere to register, and there's no place to live. So in my opinion, we need to have laws in general that relate to the rights of those who. moved persons and left without blood or blood. and with violated rights, and make a special day in Parliament when these bills are considered and approved to protect the rights of such people. That would be a good step by the Supreme Council to protect human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to invite all the deputies into the hall, I ask you to take your seats, now two more speeches per minute, and let's proceed to the vote. Please, Irina Heratschenko. Turn on the microphone from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues! It is absolutely right that all Ukrainian graduates should be given a level playing field in higher education institutions, but it is equally obvious that we as a state simply have to fight for children who are forced to live in occupied areas today and who simply do not have access to a Ukrainian diploma on graduation and Ukrainian education. And this is at a time when the Russian Federation provides quotas for teaching Ukrainian children, and at so-called ORLOs, in occupied areas, they are today implementing humanitarian programmes for the "Unification of Peoples" where they are also providing education quotas, including for children from Ukrainian territories. So today, on the eve of the end of our school year, we are obliged to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. And in fact, the same rules apply to graduates from the occupied areas of Donbas, for several areas near Donetsk and Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u45	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u46	Children can also go there without a KNZ, but according to the results of their school diplomas. We're just duplicating this right now for the Crimea outposts, for the Crimea graduates. And it's a very good bill when you and I are looking for an opportunity to support the graduates of these territories. I call for a foundation and, as a whole, accept it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u47	From the Radical Party, 1 minute, Lozový, 1 minute, and we go to the vote. Colleagues, let's do it as precisely as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u48	Christ Voscres! Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. We have to be absolutely clear that those of our brothers and sisters on Donbassa and in Crimea where the Moscow invaders took away their home, took away the right to a normal life, including the right to education -- they're Ukrainians like you and me. And to protect the displaced, to protect the same Ukrainians as all of us, who are now more difficult, is a sacred duty. And so I call for support for this bill, and the Radical Party supports it as a whole. Next. There's been an absolutely paradoxical situation where a lot of professional skills in higher education are required in higher education, such as in vocational education, for law enforcement at the University of Schewchenka, and they demand that people who want a second higher education be made aware of it. I urge the Ministry of Education to abolish this standard and, on the contrary, to encourage human learning, to stimulate development.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u49	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u50	Otto von Bismarck wrote about who doesn't build schools, then builds prisons. The educational sector must be a priority for the state. And it's very clear here that the honourable colleagues have been talking about how Moscow is working today to get our children, our future, into the Russian education system. We must therefore resist, we must lift education from our knees, give the teacher, the teacher a normal salary, give the student a normal scholarship, give our brothers and sisters an opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u51	Thank you. And the closing statement of Taras Kremen, turn on the microphone. And if you'll excuse me, I'll have a vote in a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u52	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Dear colleagues, I'm paying your attention, first of all, to the complex of measures that the Ministry of Education and Science has used to reach from occupied areas, from Crimea, to have improved conditions for entry into higher education institutions in Ukraine, for the creation of the NDA, for obtaining full secondary education, full spectrum and other educational services. And this Bill 6116, which has found the full support of the Committee on Education and Science, is a continuation of the systematic work being done by the Ministry. At the same time, I would like to say that the great benefit of this is the discovery of educational centres, consultation points, the Crim-Donbas centers, I'm sorry, Ukraine-Crime, Ukraine-Donbas, a huge number of support points and consultative centres that provide assistance. So on behalf of the People's Front, I'm addressing my colleagues, supporting this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u53	Thank you. So the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. Colleagues, please take up jobs. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act to ensure the right to higher education for persons whose residence is a temporary occupied territory of Ukraine (number 6116) at the suggestion of a committee on the basis and in general. Colleagues, voting. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, we vote. On the basis and in general. No, a committee on the foundation and the whole. Let's see what happens. Who is on the ground and in general, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:05:44]] For 238. 238, yes. Decision taken. Colleagues. The law has been adopted. Next draft of the decree to terminate the term of office of the Ukrainian national deputy Artemenko (number 6445). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote and please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, vote, colleagues, please support. [[11:06:27]] For-182 182-yes. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich. Paul Vasilovich, I ask you to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u54	Dear Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! At its meeting on 15 May, the Committee considered Presidential Decree of 29 April 2017, No. 119/2017 "On Cessation of Ukrainian Citizenship", in particular Artemenko Andrija Viktorovich. According to article 106, paragraph 26, of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine decides to end Ukrainian citizenship. In accordance with article 81, section 4, of the Constitution, paragraph 4, of article 4, of the Act on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine, the mandate of the deputy shall be suspended on time when his citizenship is terminated. The rules of part one of article 5 of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy and article 222 of the Rules provide that, according to the Committee on the subject of the Rules, the Supreme Council, within a ten - day period, shall, by a majority of its constitutional composition, adopt a decree on the permanent termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy. We are also informed that a letter of 13 May 2017 to the Committee was received from the Ukrainian National MP Artemenko, which reports that an administrative action was filed on 5 May of this year to declare it illegal and repeal the President's decree as part of the cessation of his Ukrainian citizenship. The Ukrainian Supreme Administrative Authority opened case number 800/187/17, and on May 12 of this year, concerns were registered regarding the provision of an administrative order asking the court, in particular, to suspend the President's decree referred to above. The Committee decided to submit to the National Deputies of Ukraine and to the Committee for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decision on the permanent suspension of the powers of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Artemenko, and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be decided by a vote on the permanent termination of the powers of the Deputy of Artemenko. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u55	Colleagues, please record: two in, two in. Please sign up for the performance. From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u56	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I think that for every Ukrainian citizen, it's obvious that the Ukrainian national MP can only have one passport -- a Ukrainian passport. If we go with you to this rostrum, make an oath, commit ourselves to the Constitution of Ukraine, serve the Ukrainian people faithfully, while still in the womb holding several passports, I have a question to which of the people is the Ukrainian national deputy who has other passports? That's why we welcome President of Ukraine's decision to end Artemenko's citizenship. We believe that the President has done absolutely legally, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, and today is the decision of the Supreme Council. A person who has lost and has no Ukrainian citizenship cannot be a Ukrainian national. I call on Parliament to vote, to stop the mandate of the People's Deputy for the term, as provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. And I'm talking to the Ukrainian citizens: those who don't vote for stopping Artemenko's credentials obviously have a few passports, except for Ukrainian passports.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u57	Thank you. Self-help is Victoria Wojcietsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u58	The Self-Help Unit will vote in favour. But I do have a question for you, dear colleagues. Question number one: why couldn't the President, for example, take away Mr. Nasirov's citizenship, which apparently has several passports? [[Applause]] And the second question is about selectivity. And here I am addressing each and every one of you, and now I'm going to demonstrate my specific position. Please raise your hands to those who have only Ukrainian citizenship. Who has only Ukrainian citizenship? Great, the whole room. So I'm also going to the C.I.A. to check everyone for other citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u59	From Peter Poshenko's Block, Novak Natalia Vasilovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u60	The honourable chairman, the honourable deputies, the point is that we are building a state of law and the rule of law cannot be selective, the law is the only one for all. And we know that on more than one occasion, and many deputies have pointed out that in this room not only one MP, Artemenko, has dual citizenship, so we welcome that the President has begun to depriving people of double citizenship who hold higher positions of state, including deputies. And we think we can't stop at selectivity, we have to keep doing that. And I'd like us in this room to take away not a single MP, but to have a list of those deputies who have dual citizenship, and we voted in favour of this list, we turned down selectivity under the rule of law. The law is the only law for all, and not only does Artemenko have dual citizenship. That's why I think we need to prepare a motion for a decision to remove MPs and other deputies who have dual citizenship and who have many in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u61	From the Opposition Block is Schuffrich Nestor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam, colleagues, distinguished colleagues, I am certainly observing this discussion with interest. I can honestly say that having the right to blood and place of birth, and I was born in the city of Uzhgrad, it was the territory of Slovakia, Hungary, the Soviet Union. I have the right to three citizens, except Ukrainian, but I didn't take any advantage. And by the way, this raise reminds me of January 16th. I see we have good practice of voting with our hands. Dear friends, I am firmly opposed to having people with two or, as some say, even with three passports in the Ukrainian Parliament and in the Ukrainian authorities. For some reason our colleagues on the left did not mention that name. I think those who say today that they are such radical opponents welcome the President's decision -- not only that decision -- all decisions welcome the President, my friend, but today's question is too much. It's about whether or not it's legal, constitutionally, they left the artist of Ukrainian citizenship. I am absolutely convinced that Artemenko has been deprived of Ukrainian citizenship in violation of article 25 of the Constitution, which clearly sets out the reasons why a Ukrainian citizen can be deprived of his citizenship. That means today's decision will be illegal. And as long as Artemenko defends his rights in court, it's premature to talk about depriving him of his mandate and citizenship. And I'm afraid that some people are making personal bills today, not acting by law and the Constitution. When you don't know how to act, how to follow the Constitution and the laws. And today we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u63	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u64	We must punish the criminal responsibility of all those who, having several citizens, have come to power. We have to introduce criminal responsibility or.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u65	Yeah, I haven't been to the People's Front yet. One minute. Then Ribczynski, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, the fish rots from the head, and the cleansing should also begin with the head. We will now vote in favour of depriving a foreign citizen of the status of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. It's nonsense! He can't be in this session room. Secondly, I would like to remind many of the people who have just spoken on January 16, and who, if not you, are now going to stand up for the protection of the "Cremile canned" that brought Putin's plan to America? Was he going to hand over the Crimea in exchange for some indulgence?Oh, my God! No way! And then the People's Front immediately made a statement that the Attorney General's Office should file a criminal case against the deputy of Artemenko and thus deprive him of his parliamentary powers. Let's talk about it! Don't stand up for your Kremlin agents! And that's why, starting with Artemenko, we need to continue to deprive the fifth column of the Kremlin of the MP's powers. Then it will be a real cleansing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u67	Ribczynski, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u68	I want to say something very important, gentlemen! I have great respect for the Radical Party, for its demand to take away Artemenko's citizenship. But there is one simple thing. Now, look, my deputy Yuri Brezza and I passed a law on the deprivation of Ukrainian citizenship by separatists at that session. And this law is somehow not even passed in the hall! He hasn't passed any committee for some reason! We were told that the Venice Commission was against taking away the separatists of Ukrainian passports! And now we are depriving a national MP who has been chosen by the people! I think it's selective, absolutely selective, how to say justice. Excuse me, please. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u69	Colleagues, there'll be a vote in a minute. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. Heads of factions please invite deputies to the hall. And, one minute, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! Clearly, we cannot deprive citizens of their political views. If someone violates the Constitution and engages in separatism, it is the Criminal Code. But if someone violates the Constitution and they accept another country's citizenship, it's obvious that the President did the right thing. And I want to appeal to some factions that see the President in everything. And to stress that not the hands needed to be raised, but if there is evidence that someone has other citizenship, we need to look to the relevant authorities, because this procedure has been followed. The person gave a witness in the Henprosecutor’s office, followed by an appropriate meeting of the appropriate civil commission. And if the President hadn't made that decision about ending citizenship, it would have been inaction. But there are two very big questions in this context. The first is the responsibility of faction leaders who have the same, when they look at their lists, it's for all factions that apply, and in this case, I'm talking about everyone, very clearly looking at their lists. And the second is the responsibility of the CEC that didn't check it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u71	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u72	I don't know who didn't check it and miss it. And that's why today's task is to improve the electoral system, open electoral lists, but finally to take responsibility and assign a new composition of the CLTC, that's already the responsibility of this session hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u73	So, colleagues, let's go to the vote. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs. And I want to say that there is no political subtext here is a simple thing: a citizen of a foreign state cannot be a member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it's a simple thing that fits the law. Of course, everyone has a political assessment of what Artemenko has said about renting Crimea in Russia, but we are now performing the statutory function of depriving a citizen of another state. And that's why I think that the House is voting in a consolidated manner, as well as on all matters relating to the elimination of inviolability, we have to show that Ukraine's law and interests are higher than any corporate spirit. So we're moving on to decision-making and I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national MP Artemenko (6445) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. [[11:22:02]] For 244 244-yes. It's been decided. Hello. This once again Parliament has demonstrated its power of law and the interests of the state to put above corporate interests. Colleagues, let's move on to the housing and utility cluster. The first are the two laws in the second reading. And I'm asking the right-wing authors to get ready for work. The first is the draft Law on Commercial Accounting for Municipal Services (No. 4901). And I invite you to the report of the Secretary of the Committee on Construction, Urban Development and the HKG Stasuk Vitalia. Please. And the right-wing authors please get ready for work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u74	Good afternoon! How much time do I have? Three minutes. Good afternoon! Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on Commercial Accounting for Municipal Services, introduced by the 32 national deputies, represents almost all parliamentary factions to implement the 27 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012. The implementation of this directive is an obligation of Ukraine within the framework. to the Association Agreement. The main objective of the bill is to create conditions for the calculation of the quantity of heat and water consumption by means of appropriate appliances, to form the basic principles for the distribution of such services among consumers. It should be noted that the provisions of the bill do not deal with questions related to price formation and the calculation of consumption volumes of natural gas and electricity. This bill was adopted by the Supreme Council on the basis of October 18 last year. Under the regulations, 206 amendments were made to the committee by 11 national deputies. According to the 148 amendments, 58 amendments are rejected as being contrary to the concept of the project. Such conceptual changes should be taken into account. Terminology has been clarified in part of the commercial public building and the distribution of individual utilities. The calculation nodes are accepted for the subscriber account, which will make it impossible for monopolies to ignore the calculation nodes when counting service salaries. It simplifies how to install the nodes, which will be executed without any arbitrary documentation, and thereby eliminates the potential corruption component. The time is increased for the accommodations in the houses by the distribution nodes. The control authority shall have the right to access the commercial account nodes to check the correctness of the decommissioning of the measuring equipment. The provision on third-party access to consumer information in part of the restrictions set by the Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Act has been clarified. Detailed principles for determining the amount of heat consumption before installing a commercial node based on the thermal load of a building determined according to the design documentation, as well as the actual number of hours of heat supply of actual climate conditions. Improved principles of the computational method of determining how much public services are consumed. The order of access to the markets of accounting nodes already allowed for use in European Union countries has been simplified. During the second reading of the draft bill, representatives of the Ministry, the Department of Energy Efficiency, the Secretariat of the European Energy Society, public institutions and international experts were actively involved. According to a review of the Comparative Table to Bill 4901, on March 15, this year, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u75	Please finish for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u76	I think I'm done. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u77	Thank you, Your Honor. And we're moving on to the amendments, dear colleagues. 16 Amendment of the People’s Derevyanka Are you insisting? Please, it's a wooden microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u78	Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party, New Forces Movement. I suggested in part one of the first article, paragraph 10, that the term "end-consumer" should be included in the word "or he is co-owner of a multi-housing house," or "or the administrators of which made a suitable agreement on the provision of utilities for the benefit of co-owners." Because in fact, this law strengthens the role of the collective consumer and collective agreements in the provision of housing services. And if someone in the apartment doesn't pay for the utilities they've used, they're going to have to pay for everyone else, those who pay, those who don't pay. Because it turns out that this item that you've proposed is purely for oligarchs to pay for those who don't pay. So I ask you to vote on my amendment and to support my amendment, because it is important for us to be final consumers and that this law defends the interests of end consumers, not collective consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u79	Please put 16 amendments to the vote, colleagues. [[11:27:47]] For 104 You can't make it: 104 in favor. Please, 19th. Turn on the microphone for the national MP Yvchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u80	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, my amendment concerns article 1 of paragraph 12 on terms, definitions of terms. And what we want to do is understand with you that the fees for the installation and replacement of house nodes were to be borne directly by operators or those who provide the service. So, colleagues, I think I need to support this amendment and say in general that in this law, in the concept of this law, the responsibility of consumers of utilities to pay fees for the installation and replacement of building nodes is as high as possible. These payments will be of a regulatory nature and are intended to be determined in an opaque manner and without taking into account the interests of the house’s inhabitants. I'm asking you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u81	Please place number 19 on the vote. [[11:29:11]] For-80 He doesn't get the required number of votes. The 20th Amendment of the People's Deputy, Levchenka. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u82	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This bill is a mere testimony that this Supreme Council works for one percent of the population of Ukraine, not 99 percent of the population. This bill proposes to place a burden on the establishment of external nodes, to finance this issue for residents of apartment buildings instead of operators, as is the case today in established practice. You know, in terms of when the tariffs are so high, when the real payability of citizens goes down the other way, now vote for things like that so that citizens can also pay for the establishment of external nodes, sorry, this is not blasphemy, it's, I don't know, even find a word to describe the normal words censored for television, yes. So my amendment, and a series of other amendments, refers to the removal of this totally anti-national norm. I call now to vote in favour of the amendment, and in general I call upon everyone, especially the majority, to explain to people how they can pay for the tariffs and pay for all the services, not to vote for this shameful antisocial law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u83	Is your amendment put to the vote? Please 20 amendments to the People's Deputies of Lehchenka. [[11:30:45.]] For-94 He doesn't get the required number of votes. 21st, Longy. Don't insist. 24th, Martovitch. I'm sorry, she's not marked, 22nd, by the People's Deputy. Please, the microphone and then the Martovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u84	Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party, New Forces Movement. I suggested in paragraph 13 of the first part of article 1 in defining the notion of "communal service provider" to add to the operators not only those who are formal contractors, but also those who produce the corresponding utility from the provision of thermal energy and the provision of hot water and centralized water supply. Why? Because the consumer can make a contract directly with the service manufacturer, not just his supplier. This is particularly relevant at present when, when public policy is being implemented, alternative sources of energy can provide direct services. Therefore, I ask that this amendment be voted on and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u85	Let's put 22 amendments to the vote. [[11:32:00]] For-99 It doesn't take up the necessary amount. Now, National MP Martovicki, please 24 amendments. Are you insisting? I can't see. Don't insist. 26th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 31st, Martovitchki. Don't insist. Yvchenko, 36th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u86	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I ask you to read carefully the changes proposed in the second reading. For example, article 3, paragraph 4: "The cost of building equipment by building nodes is reimbursed by the operator by the consumers of the relevant utilities in such a building by paying the fee for the installation of the building node of the account that is paid to the provider of the corresponding service." It's a marasm. Colleagues, on these grounds, I would like to propose to cancel the above-mentioned consumer contributions by deleting the corresponding provisions from the text. Please support my work so that we can see that this Supreme Council can work directly for the people and not translate the financial burden directly into the installation of the house's consumer accounting nodes and work directly for the social protection of citizens in order for them to understand that they are paying for the service, not for the nodes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u87	Please vote for the 36th amendment. [[11:33:47]] Z-87 We're all on schedule, we're on schedule. Please proceed with the amendment of 43 people's deputies, Levchenka. She's been rejected by the committee. Mr. Vitalia, you don't have to worry, if there's anything principled, I'll give you my word. It's okay! Please, Lechchenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u88	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Now, I'd like to go to those MPs who are listening in the first place, wouldn't I? - and remind them. I'm sure you, if you're having these kind of receptions, people come to every reception and they talk about how they can't afford to pay for the utilities that they don't have at all. I'm sure people are telling you that they don't have heat meters for houses, and that's why they have to pay crazy money for the stupid norms that Kabmin set up. I'm sure that's what people are telling you. So how can you vote for these things right now? Now you're suggesting right now, now that Wadim Ivchenko correctly quoted, I'm going to repeat, very important, just a demonstration quote, that "to spend on building equipment by building nodes of accounting, carried out by an external network operator, is being compensated by consumers of appropriate utility services in such a building." Well, how can we vote for these things in today's country? Well, do you have a conscience at all or not? Do I not understand that this question is rhetorical? I urge all adequate deputies not to vote for these things. And I'd like you to support the amendment, remove this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u89	Vote for this amendment, Your Honor, number 43. [[11:35:39]] For-92 You're not getting any work done, mate. 44th, National Deputy Ivchenka. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, thank you, first of all, my colleague Lewchenk for his understanding of what the Supreme Council is taking on today. And I ask each and every one of you, especially the majors, my colleagues, once again, to read what's left: "The size of the fees for the maintenance and replacement of the building nodes is calculated by the operator." Listen, they've created OSBB, they're going to pay a person or an inhabitant directly for the controls, they're going to pay for the current renovations, the residents, and they're going to make direct payments for the nodes that the monopolies are going to install! Colleagues, please, let's work for the people! For once. And forever! It's not a problem to read into the law and see what there are really lobbyist norms that lobby monopolists today. Please support this revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u91	Vote for amendment 44, colleagues. [[11:36:55]] For-86 She doesn't vote. 45th, Shahov. Don't insist. 46th, Longy. Don't insist. 49th, Levenchenko. He insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u92	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. I would like to use this moment to contact our television and radio audiences. I urge all Ukrainians to look at who voted in favour of this bill. Which one of you has the Internet, go to the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and in five minutes there will be a roll call. Who doesn't, if you're an older person, you don't have access to the Internet -- call your child, your son, your daughter, your grandson, and ask who voted for it? Because it's a completely antisocial, anti-national bill that's going to cause an even greater increase in the tariff burden on an ordinary citizen -- 99 percent of Ukrainians. This amendment that I'm considering right now, number 49, there's no point in putting it on the stand. Because it would be logical if the previous amendments were taken into account. Given that the previous amendments, unfortunately, are not taken into account by the oligarchic Supreme Council, I do not insist on making this amendment for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u93	You don't ask to bet. Thank you. Next up is 51st, Yvchenka. 50th, accounted for. It's essentially accounted for. Please, Drevijanko insists on 50 amendments. Treetop microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u94	Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party, New Forces Movement. Dear colleagues, this is the manipulation that is being done today to extend this law. It's written that my correction is partially accounted for, in fact, it's not included at all. The point of the amendment is that the legislators, those who propose this, this oligarchic law, they propose not only that people pay for the devices of external networks, but they also propose that these devices be made if the owner of the house wants to buy and install it itself. They're not allowed to do that. So my amendment is very simple: the owners of the house can buy the device themselves, install it, and compensate the owners of this installed device for having a service provider. That's the point. And I'm asking you to support this amendment. This law is absolutely in the supplier's best interests, absolutely in the interests of the oligarchic owners of all heat-communergos, and Kiivenergos, including oligarchs. And I'm really sorry, and I don't know if it's embarrassing for those people who go through this way, saying that the corrections are counted and when they're not actually counted. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u95	We're voting for the 50th amendment, colleagues. [[11:39:51]] For-81 It's not coming through. Next. 51st, Yvchenka. He insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u96	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I want to address the factions again. People voted for you. I'm sure, and especially I want to talk to the TV audience, that the next time you go directly to the elections, we'll hang you in every driveway to see who's putting this pressure on you, to pay for the nodes directly, we'll show you what's going on with other utilities and what's the use of voting for some factions or other factions. My colleagues, please, please, please, read it. If you're told today by members of the various factions that this law goes directly and lobbies providers of public services, not people, we're with you representatives of the people, let's send them back for a second read. Fatherland won't vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u97	Do you insist on voting on your amendment? No, it's not. Let's move on. 53rd, Lechchenko. Are you insisting on the amendment? Thank you. No, it's not. 54th, Derevyanka. He insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, this is a very important amendment. Given that this law places a financial burden on people rather than on the supplier, I suggested in this amendment that local government authorities, according to approved legislation, may decide to allocate funds to the relevant local budget for building housing units. And I suggested that there should be legislation on the common property of a multi-housing house on such nodes after they were installed. Therefore, I would like to support this amendment and allow local self-government authorities to take into account in their budgets the cost of self-financing of such nodes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u99	54 we vote on the amendment. Please. [[11:42:01]] Z-77 77 deputies supported her. Next amendment to Ichchenka, 55th. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Thank you. Long, 56th. Don't insist. Chess, 57th. Don't insist. Wooden 59th. Are you insisting or not? He insists. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! I see the interests of today Ahmtova, the other oligarchs who today, either in concession, took the heat utility, or the others have already taken possession. So I'm addressing all the conscious MPs who don't want to increase the pressure on our citizens. In order for our citizens to pay extra for those who don't pay, or for our citizens to pay for the nodes that actually account for the service provided by the provider. Dear colleagues! I ask you not to uphold this law. Send him back for a second read. And I ask that this amendment be put to the vote as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u101	Let's put an amendment to the 59th vote. [[11:43:19]] For-74. Your room does not support editing. Next, 60th. A long national MP does not insist. 63rd. We haven't reached her yet, Your Honor. 58th requires a national MP, Musai, to be confirmed. This is the amendment of the people's representative of Stasuk. Please, it's Musia's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u102	Dear National Deputies! Please note the 58th amendment and make it mandatory to confirm that the Committee and the People's Deputy are represented by the People's Front, and especially to point out that all lobbying from the People's Front, namely: the interests of the archnegro, the interests of the lie are taken into account and the interests of the people are not taken into account. This is actually a diagnosis made by these worlds that have gone into the hands of people in the Supreme Council, and now they're trying to get into people's pockets. I call on all major national MPs to vote not only with yellow buttons, but with red buttons for the bill and it needs to be thrown out of this room at all. If you'd like to confirm this, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u103	I'd like to ask the speakers not to call the colleagues passageways, good, because we're all colleagues here. And I ask you very much to comment on this amendment. Thank you. No, we don't have a replica because we don't have a nickname for "The Passage." So please, this is a reaction from Vitaly Stasuk. Please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, you have just witnessed such a frantic populism and incompetence that every person who understands what this is is is simply becoming a siege. There are no other words. We're told that someone is setting free counters today, that's not true. There is nothing free, so stop lying to the people. Today, these prices go into tariffs, they go into investment programs. And those people who have set up these counters for their own money still pay the tariff for someone else to set the counters. When you say that the law does not have the right for local authorities to finance the installation of accounting devices, it is not true, it is their right and it is not necessary to deceive the people. If you say that the owners of buildings do not have the right to self-assembly the building, then again, it is not true. Are you counting on the fact that no one has read or said a word to you in reply? Don't be loud, don't be lying to people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that the committee has considered Amendment No. 58. My colleague Musai requires it to be confirmed, we must do so. Please vote in favour, because that is the position of a committee of profile who has carefully studied this bill. Please. [[11:46:48]] For the 110. 110 votes. I'd still ask my colleagues not to balance the bill. Let's move on. 63 The Bible’s Viewpoint Are you insisting? Please, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u106	I'd like a reputable reporter who stands up for the interests of concessionists, oligarchs today, in fact, not to get confused, really the counters are all paid and really need to buy them for money. But the question is, who pays for them: either people or the service provider. That's the first one. And the second. The question is at what cost. So all the amendments that I've proposed and which I'm now proposing, including now, are in the interest of the consumer, the individual consumer, not the collective consumers that you're trying to impose on today. Translating the full burden of payment, all of this to this consumer. So I ask 63 amendments to support and vote too, and not to twist what you hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u107	Thank you. I'll put it to a vote. The supporter of the 63 amendments to the tree, please vote. [[11:48:11]] For-76 76. The decision is not made. Colleagues, I'd like to talk to the right-wing authors, I see there are three active right-wing authors. Can I give you my word that you will give me these corrections that you insist on? Yes, I will give my word to anyone who has a wish. Maybe so. Drevjanko says he has another law. Please, Mr. Yuri, announce your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u108	I've got it. It's a 67. So I understand that all the previous remedies have also been rejected. So I want to go now to the majority deputies, to the MPs who today really want to protect the Ukrainian citizens of our country, who are eating community services and calling for the hall to send this law back for a second reading. It is carefully worked out, done in such a way that, indeed, this law protects the interests of the final consumer so that the oligarchs do not impose a model when it is possible, in the form of a collective consumer, for all to grow fat and for those who pay for themselves and for all those who do not pay, including. So I ask, I will no longer take the word, this law will no longer support the final vote, send for a second read again, because this law is anti-national, anti-national, anti-human, but is prooligarchy, it is, absolutely asserts, and will further reinforce that monopoly that natural monopolies today have and will continue to choose the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u109	Are you insisting on the 67th vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u110	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u111	Okay. Yuri Lewchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u112	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. First of all, I'd like to address the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, who said that you don't balance the bill. Mrs. Irina, I want to balance this bill, I want to destroy it because it's an anti-human bill. So, Mrs. Irina, please, please, you will be, you all sitting in the Presidium, you have to be independent of the political views in the Hall, because please do follow these principles. Yeah? And I'm also going to the reporter. Mr. Vitalia, you've been giving a lot of lists, every moment, and I've actually only been talking about one thing, that's all you've been saying, you've been imputing to someone there from the reporters, and I haven't said all of that. I was talking about one simple thing, because it's not possible for people to switch directly, not indirectly, and it's impossible to directly finance heat meters, because in fact then no heat meters in most houses will be installed, which is why we can't do that. And why the monopolies want to do it because they're still going to get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u113	Mr. Yuri, I'll give you some time. Are you insisting on the papers? Please name the corrections you insist on. 63rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u114	Mr. Andrey! Mr. Head! Mr. Head! I insist on following the Rules, and I will insist on each of my amendments separately, according to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I insist on Amendment 69. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u115	69. So I'm voting on amendment 69 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:51:45]] For-79 The decision is not made. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, the next 70 orders count, I ask her to be confirmed as well. And, Mr. Reporter, you should probably read the Supreme Council Rules, which provide for 116 articles on second reading, prohibits making substantial changes. This revision is a major change because it is: To complete a specific part of the article. Therefore, because of the violation of the Rules, I ask that it be submitted for confirmation as such, which could not have been brought to second reading, taking into account the present Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u117	Thank you. Will you comment? Will you comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u118	So give me the word, please, to Alona Babak, who will comment on all of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u119	Colleagues, come on, I'm putting a motion to the vote. Colleagues, so I'm betting on the confirmation of the 70 amendment, the committee has supported it, and the committee is calling on the hall to make sure that this amendment is supported. Please vote in favour of the 70 amendment, the committee is asking for support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:53:30.]] For-90 The decision is not made. Alona Babak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, we've just overturned the bill that we've been talking about that all of these contributions to establishing counters will be covered by social subsidies, so everyone can understand what just happened. As far as the next one goes. Dear colleagues, there is a terrible manipulation in the hall of whose account house counting is currently being financed. I had a request from the NCREKP asking for information on the amounts that we pay for counters in tariffs. The city of Kiev 2016 This year 2017: 143 million dollars for equipment of 2 000 570 counters. Odessa: 46 million dollars for equipment of a thousand 359 units. Lviv: A million dollars is 775 counters, and so every tariff license pays today for the installation of counters. So, Your Honor, if you think it's free, it's free.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u121	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u122	I understand. So, respectable colleagues, on the contrary, we come out of the dark water on a transparent basis and we show how much every house, every apartment will pay after this law has been passed for this counter. We've calculated, at current prices, about six dollars per apartment per month -- that's what these calculations are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u123	So you're making an offer, Alona? No offer. Colleagues, who else insists on reform? Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u124	Amendment 92 refers to the same question. Here the previous speaker spoke of the fact that counters are not free and so forth. Obviously they're not free, nobody, a rational person here doesn't talk about it, only if you're a real MP who communicates with people, not just looking at people from his Mercedes private window, periodically on the street, it's clear that tariffs won't go down as a result of that idea of a decision. What will result from this decision is that the law will now stipulate that counters should be set directly at the expense of the inhabitants of the house. And given that the norms of today are stupid, outbidden, and today's monopolies are not convenient to set up counters, precisely because their profits are going to go down, and people are not going to have money to set counters in a voluntary order, and not because of tariffs, no counters will be set up. It's understandable, any rational national MP who thinks, in fact, about.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u125	93 Amendment. Anyone who supports the amendment of 93 People's Deputies, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[11:56:57]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Yvchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u126	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, come on, I'm talking to the presiding officer, we're not going to lie. I want to read you an update and your comment, and your comment tells you what contradicts the concept of the project. The customer has to pay for the installation. You and I were given tables. True to what is happening today, colleagues want to legitimize the costs directly incurred by those who provide services. They're going to put the nodes in the shape of heat or electricity and so on, and they're going to spread out the residents of this apartment house directly, and they're going to give them a five-year loan. And so we'll see through. After the entry into force of this law, that tariffs on people will increase due to the fact that they will pay for these form nodes. It's not a good project, it's not a good concept, let's change the other way around, let's say it's an investment component of those service providers. Or, as Derevyanko said, local budgets cover the costs of these providers. Colleagues, the wrong draft of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u127	You don't insist on any correction. What's that? 90. We've already voted. Yes, I'd like to bet on the 90th amendment. The committee supported her and the committee asked her to support her. I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment 90. And, colleagues, if you'll excuse me, there'll be a vote in a few minutes. To confirm the 90th amendment, please vote. [[11:58:51]] For-78 The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, last performances. Let's say 113, 94. That'll be the last one, Mr. Yuri. Turn on Yuri Leuchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u128	Mr. Head, I am asking you officially that I have a number of amendments that are officially in the schedule, and I insist on reviewing each amendment. In the event that any amendment is not considered, it will be a violation of the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm officially reporting you under the transcript. Now, please consider Amendment 94, which deals with the same question as to remove the responsibility of local residents to fund the installation of appropriate accounting nodes. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u129	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, I'll just let you know that we've been doing our work for 12 hours now. So I'm asking you to count the changes, and I'm going to put each of them on the ballots that you insist on. Maybe? 94. Anyone who supports the amendment of the 94th People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote. [[12:00:27]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Next line of Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u130	97th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u131	97 redundancies. Anyone who supports Amendment 97 of Lechchenka, please vote. [[12:00:52]] For-63 Next line, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u132	Next amendment 100. But, Mr. Andrew, I would. To allow me to justify my revisions, not to interrupt me and to put the vote in. I understand that the vast majority of deputies do not listen. But at least perhaps those who listen will know what the vote is about. I would now like to turn to all the deputies on a specific example of why we need to support this amendment that excludes the obligation of residents to finance the home’s account holders. For example, in Kiev, where is the monopoly of Mr. Ahmedov, the private owner of Kievenergo, yes. Kievenergo itself organizes the theft of thermal counters, steals heat counters in the houses themselves, to force residents to pay by excessive standards to gain revenue, absolutely nothing is justified. So this law facilitates the mechanism when a heat counter is stolen, and then they say to the residents, "Oh, the residents, and you set up a new heat counter." And the residents say, "And we've set up a heat counter a year ago, we don't have any money." This is what, in particular, is stipulated in this law, why I call on MPs not to vote for this nonsense. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u133	I'm betting on 100 amendments to Lechchenk's vote. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:02:22]] For-74. 72. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, let's do it now. Listen to me carefully. I have a decision to make right now. If there's not much to insist on, we can now go to the vote. If there's much left, we can do it after a break. I would also like to consult on this subject exclusively for the organization of work. If there's a couple, we can do it in five minutes, I can go on for 15 minutes, so I say. One, yes, Ivchenko, one? Lechenko, four, right? One, yes. How much? Five. Let's consult, colleagues, there are two ways out of this situation. Vice Prime Minister, Mr. Zubko, we have two options: either now for 10 minutes go through these changes and go to the vote now, or call a break until 12:30 and then finish. How do you feel better?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u134	Mr. Head, I believe that the debate is going on right now in the work process and it would be very important to finish the consideration of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u135	That's right. Colleagues, come on, I, out of respect for each other, and I remind every deputy, Mr. Yuri, I remind you, when you had a request, I have also often heard your requests. And I want to say, let's now quickly vote on the ones you insist on. By law, I continue to work for 15 minutes. And so I ask my colleagues to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And I would like to ask for a brief proposal so that we can vote and come to a decision now, and by 12:30, we can start the next bill. We got a deal, right? Then I ask the Secretariat to invite everyone into the hall. And, really, I'm going to call the amendments they insist on, and I'm going to put them to the vote. Mrs. Yuri, please. Turn on the microphone. And I'd like to invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u136	Please bet on confirmation. Not for confirmation, please support my amendment number 104. Similarly, the issue of clearing people’s demands to finance the direct installation of building nodes is raised. I'd like to pay attention to those MPs who are now fluctuating in their decision. Here there is a discussion in the hall that a person is still funding a proper service through a tariff. Yes, the service goes through tariffs, but this service is then guaranteed. And it is stipulated today in the law that the operator is obliged to put the corresponding node, the corresponding counter. Instead, today’s model proposes that this guarantee be removed and that it be transferred directly to the locals. Instead, tariffs are not likely to decrease. This means that residents of homes, the vast majority of homes, especially the old housing fund, especially in less socially protected regions and cities, will not be able to afford it and will not install heat meters, and operators will have profits even higher than they are now. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u137	What are the following adjustments?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u138	Mr. Andrey, I insist on every correction separately, please. I'm acting solely under the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I don't have any other request, actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u139	And I can't continue our work any longer under the Law of Rule 12.15. I have a request for you to name the following amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u140	Mr. Andrey, if I'm given the opportunity to make any amendments right now, there's no question. Then come on, please, I have three more amendments. Please give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u141	Let me give you one minute. Mr. Yuri, well, why are you running this deal every minute? You can say three amendments within a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u142	Mr. Andrew, then I'm asking you to give it to me. No, well, I don't have one minute to go through all three of the amendments. I need time.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u143	Tell me, I'll continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u144	Again?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u145	Talk to me, I'll give you a little more time.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u146	Okay. So, society, I'm now, considering that I've been given this opportunity to make all the amendments, I'm talking about Amendment 104, 108, 190, 199. Three of these amendments — 104, 108, 190 — relate, in fact, to the question that this law forces local residents to directly finance the house’s accounting nodes. And that's why I'm calling for this amendment to be adopted so that this absolutely anti-national rule can be removed from this bill. Why should we do so? I'd like to emphasize that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u147	Please add a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u148	Because if you don't, you won't be able to continue setting up the house nodes. Because the locals simply will not have in the vast majority of the funds for this and the opportunities for it. Instead, the monopoly-operators, such as in Kiev, the private monopoly Kievenergo, is owned by Mr. Ahmedov, will do their best to complicate this process. For example, kidnapping house counters, as they are now doing. And the locals will be told that it is you who have to put them in place. In addition, I would like to point out that this bill also proposes that local residents be paid for the periodic trust of counters! So it's not just the installation, it's the belief of the numerators. This applies to my 199, so that the residents will also pay for the trust of the counters. So it's not a one-time expense, it's a constant, it's an annual one. This is an even greater burden on our disadvantaged citizens! Such things cannot be supported. And I call upon all the national MPs, especially the majors.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u149	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u150	do not vote in favour of this bill. Let's start by supporting my work. If the amendments are not supported, I call for this bill not to be voted on. So you're forcing our Ukrainians to jump into poverty even more. We already told the UN that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u151	Thank you. Ivchenko, please describe the changes you insist on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u152	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! Edit 91 for confirmation. What is she talking about? It allows the artist to replace not all the nodes, but only parts. So imagine, he's going to come directly to do a replacement part. He'll control himself. Expenses will be transferred directly to the consumer who will pay him. What's the periodicity of how he's going to do it, what control he's replaced is nothing. I think it's going to be a corrupt norm. And that's how, when they replace part of the node of the calculation, they're going to add to the cost of the consumer. So I'm asking you to apply for confirmation and not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u153	I'll put it on confirmation. Wooden, please, briefly, in a concise way.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u154	Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party, New Forces Movement. Dear colleagues, one of the lobbyists of this oligarchic law has just told us that today, indeed, it exposes us, through the NCRECR, to the cost of counters, devices for Ukrainian citizens. Yes, it is. You know why? Because this is not a legal issue. It is by this law that we propose that this payment be paid, not by citizens, but by suppliers. This means that NCRECR will not be able to, along with his Wolf, to do so by placing this money on citizens’ accounts. So I very much ask you not to vote in the second reading of this bill, to re-read it, to take into account the changes that have already been rejected today, in order to allow us to protect people, not the oligarchs that our lady is so actively defending today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u155	And the closing statement is Musai. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. In a few minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. Please, Musai.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u156	Mr. Chairman, I'm asking you to put 5 licenses for confirmation, this is amendment 113, 121, 136, 143 and 153. A little bit about the essence of what's done there. 113. 113. In fact, the schematics offered by the People's Front representative, who is here at the rostrum, are striking their own. surprise and simplicity with regard to the looting of other Ukrainian people. The one who conducts the election in the district, and I conduct it regularly, half of the citizens' petitions about so-called trusts. A lie comes in and takes an active, perfectly normal counter in five minutes, which has just been set up and put this payment back on the table instead of being made by the government's decision now in a special program to pay the State's trust, relies on consumers. I think this disgraceful law needs to be followed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u157	Mr. Musai!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u158	Thank you. Please. Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u159	Listen! Well, you have to have a limit. This law doesn't apply to gas meters at all, what are you talking about? Well, you can read what it's all about. To the trusts of gas counters, this law has nothing to do with heat and water. Well, at least read it, and then worry about who's here and who's taking the electorate. I'm taking the electorate, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u160	Colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u161	Colleagues, once again, well, me. We have regular fighters for the rights of the people, we hear them all the time. Well, you don't have to carry ax. Once we have approved this law, the NCREKP will not be able to include the investment component already in the approved tariffs. And for those with fixed counters, this term will disappear. Speak Truth! Speak the truth about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u162	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'll make all the adjustments now. Please give me another minute, Gennady Zubko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u163	Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Head! I would like first of all to thank the active members of our people who are doing this very professionally. And today, the issue of cutting the normative costs of consumer monopolies is the fulfilment of the terms of this law, it's the ability to manage its property, it's the ability to reduce its consumption, it's the ability to account for the energy efficiency that we're trying to achieve with you. And today the question of when does a monopoly have to set up a counter, it has to execute it and serve it, we have to give the owner the ability to manage and also then it doesn't matter whether it's broken or it's stolen in order to have a fair count of its consumption energy. This applies to heat, this applies to water, this does not apply to gas or other matters. Please pay attention once again to those professional deputies who have worked on this law, who have conducted it, who have held a mass of round tables and who are now standing up for it in Parliament. Thank you for your support, and please support this bill in the second reading, this is a tool that will help reduce the consumption of every Ukrainian family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u164	My colleagues, so now I'm going to put in all the changes that have been called and then we're going to make a decision. Everyone, please take your seats. Let's move on to the decision-making process. So I put it in sequence. First. The committee rejected the amendment of 104 national deputies, Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote, vote. [[12:14:32]] For the 120th. The decision is not made. 108th, Lechchenka. The committee's asking her not to support it. 108th. Vote. [[12:14:51]] For-86 The decision is not made. 190th. The committee turned her down. Lechenko insists on voting. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:15:12]] For-78 The decision is not made. And 199th. The committee turned her down. Lechenko insists on voting. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. And please come into the hall, take up jobs, colleagues, in a minute or two, let's go to the vote. [[12:15:32]] For-84 The decision is not made. Now there are amendments to the confirmation, to the confirmation, so, colleagues, the committee is asking them to support it. I'm asking you to take up jobs. To confirm, they are the ones the committee has supported and asked for support. And to whoever supports this law and committee, please support them and ask them to take up their jobs. Colleagues, there is an important vote and you, on the other hand, agitate MPs. So I'm betting on confirmation of first amendment 91. Please vote, please support. 91 amendment for confirmation. We vote, colleagues who support the law, we vote. [[12:16:21]] For 190 190. The decision is not made. 113th. For confirmation. The committee's asking her to support it, it's an important part of the bill. Please, who supports the bill, vote 113. Please vote. [[12:16:49]] For-183 121st. For confirmation. The committee's asking her to support it, 121 amendments. Please vote. 121th, the committee's asking for support. [[12:17:09]] For-179 136th. For confirmation. Please vote, please support. [[12:17:28]] For 186 143rd. For confirmation. The committee's asking for support. Please vote. [[12:17:45]] For 193 And 153, last one, for confirmation. Please vote, please support and let's move on to the law. Please vote. [[12:18:05]] For-198 The decision is not made. And now, please, a representative of the committee, make a recommendation to the Chamber, which decision to put to the vote and move on to the decision-making process. Please, Stashuk Vitali, and please take your jobs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u165	It is unfortunate that this discussion took place in this format because it was possible to conduct it without cameras and to explain the obvious things to specialists, unfortunately. So I propose not to lose, really, the question of accounting at all, to put to a vote and in case we don't vote, to re-read.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u166	Colleagues, the position of the committee that if there are no votes to read again. Is she supported by everyone? Give me advice: put it all together first, then put it back together again? Okay. Then I ask everyone to take up their jobs. I'll put it in general first, if there's no votes, then I'll put the second reading back on. I ask all fellow MPs to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please, I just don't see everybody in places, and you have cards there? Okay. So, colleagues, I'm putting a rating vote on the bill on commercial utility bill (4901), the rating vote that supports this bill as a whole. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Ratings for and what is the overall support, 4901. Vote, please support, vote. [[12:19:58]] For 218. 218. Now I'm putting the ratings, who's in charge of re-reading? The rating vote, which supports the second reading, please vote. [[12:20:26]] For 235 Thank you. The situation is clear, and I'm putting the Commercial Service Bill (4901) on second reading again. Please vote, please support: re-second reading 4901. Let's do it together. That's how I put it. If, in general, I'm going to put it away, my friends. [[B in m in s a l in]] Put it all together? So, colleagues, I'm betting now that I don't have a rating. The first is, in general, if it doesn't work, the second one. So, colleagues, I'm putting in a bill on the commercial accounting of utilities (4901) as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please support 4901 as a whole, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[12:21:36]] For 225 I'll be back, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, if there are facts. Colleagues, I will return to the vote of 4901 as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u167	There is an act of tidbiting. There's a button shop going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u168	Kim? Give me a name. The committee representative was unable to vote. I propose to return to vote 4901, a committee representative was unable to vote. Who's behind it. I see, I see. Who supports the return to review 4901, please vote, please support 4901, return to 4901. Please be supportive. [[12:22:44]] For 229 We're back. There was a return. Now let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking you not to let other people's cards be used when they're made, and now they're going to make decisions, and I'm asking you not to use other people's cards. And I'm voting on the bill on commercial utility bill (4901) and I'm asking you to vote only in person. We're voting 4901 as a whole, colleagues. Please vote, please support. [[12:23:30]] For 225 It's some kind of disaster, colleagues. I'm betting on the second reading again. I'm proposing a second reading of the Commercial Service Bill (4901) for re-reading. Please vote, please support, for the second reading again. [[12:24:03]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I hereby declare a recess under the Rules for 30 minutes, and we shall continue our work at 12:55. Please come to the hall with discipline to continue our work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u169	Good afternoon! Colleagues, break time is over. Everyone, please come into the hall. Please invite all members of the Supreme Council to the Hall. Please. Colleagues, let's move on to the next question: housing and utility block. This is a draft of the Housing Services Act (1581-Deputy). Please be prepared for discussion by the right-wing authors. And I invite you to the report of the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban Development, and ZHK Babak Alon Valeriyev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u170	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. You and I are continuing the topic of residential services. And let's go to the two-pronged bill: the Housing Services Act. He was introduced into the hall by another previous government. We didn't approve of him, and we sent him to work on the committee. In February of last year, he was accepted as a foundation. All this time, the committee was working on the second reading of the bill. Most major deputies today will say that local authorities: representatives of OSBB; people who live in multi-housing buildings – each of you have probably already been asked to ask, colleagues, when we adopt the Housing and Utilities Act, which we will set up for managers, to order the competitions of these administrators, to the duties of these administrators before the consumers, before there is a multi-housing house, taking into account that there may be a merger of co-owners, there is no pooling of co-owners, there is going to be a deal with monopolists. In fact, this bill is an extremely serious and complex law that has to regulate the very relationship between consumers and all providers of housing and utility services: both with managers, and with water ducts, and with heat, and with gas-efficient, and energy-efficient companies, and with garbage-delivery companies. And this is actually extremely important to ensure the vitality of the Ukrainian population's legislation. So it's a very big request from the entire committee, from all the people who are looking forward to considering this law today, to mobilize and adjust to active, proper work. The bill was, in accordance with the adopted National Regulators Act. Then the Law on the Market in Electricity was passed. We kept trying to take all these last changes into account and reflect them in the draft law. The last meeting of the committee took place on April 12 of this year. And the updated comparative table was finally approved by the committee. And we've also been given a decision by the General Legal Office to adopt a law with observations that mainly relate to the harmonization of this bill with recently adopted laws. We even, you know, have deferred the introduction of a penny as a contract enforcement tool for January 1, 2019. So today, you're looking at a draft law, a comparative table to the second reading that the committee in the accounting committee is asking you to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u171	Thank you. I'm going to count the changes that were rejected by the committee. Five o'clock, Kugel. Don't insist. Seven o'clock, Kudlainka. Don't insist. 12th, Kudlainka. Don't insist. 14th, Andreyevsky. Don't insist. 24th, Kudlainka. Don't insist. 28th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 30th, Kugel. Don't insist. 40th, Kugel. Don't insist. 43rd, Martovitch. Don't insist. 44th, Sažko. Don't insist. 28 amendments, please, Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u172	Dear colleagues! I ask that you delete from the bill an article that provides for the introduction of customer service fees. This is an additional payment paid by the consumer. And that's why I'm not suggesting. She's been rejected, please vote for my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u173	Alexander Volodymyrna, 28th is Ichchenka's. Please specify which direction you are speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u174	Please finish. And tell me, what are you insisting on? Please, ma'am. Turn on Kugel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u175	I ask you to vote in favour of cancelling the payment for customer service. That's what we got, the gas we wanted to do to the NCRECR, and so now there's going to be customer service for every service. Please place 27 confirmations.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u176	Please, Mrs. Alona.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, the idea is that this bill in a multi-housing house is a monopolistic price of water, that we cut out the cost of managing contracts in multi-housing buildings, and that we determine it for one single room, for one subscriber. This is done in order for consumers to see how much the administration of these contracts and the trust of individual counters in multi - apartment buildings are worth. I'm bringing to your attention that in Kiev, for example, the difference between a cubicle of water to a house and an apartment of bracelet 58, in other cities, is bracelet 55, 76 copies. For gigacalorie, 32 bracelets for gigacalorie, this average season can be between 5 and 7 bracelets per square meter we're already paying for this service by monopolies. We take it out of the monopoly price because the supply market in the apartment is not monopolies, it could be the manager of the house.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u178	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u179	That's what OSBB will do. And that's why every consumer has to decide which model of relationships they're going to choose. And he's going to look at the cost of this option. To do that, we have to determine this price in terms of salary per square meter or per subscriber. It is written that this is removed from the price and is not included in the value of the resource that is given into the house. Dear colleagues, this is the transparency of calculations, this is the balance of decisions. I'm asking you very much to support 27 revisions because it has a key meaning for.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u180	Thank you. So you insist. The correction is partially accounted for, I understand, the Kugel insists on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u181	Counted, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u182	Confirmed?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u183	Confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u184	So, colleagues, 27 rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u185	Support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u186	The committee counted it in part. And the committee's asking her to support it, 27 revisions. And I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please, Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, in case we don't support the readjustment as it was. It is, clarifying paragraph 11 of the basic adopted in the first reading of the law, so we will have certain, well, misunderstandings. With this correction, we refine, specify what was introduced and accepted on the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u188	So I'm betting on confirmation of number 27. The committee requests that this amendment be supported. So it's the colleagues who support the data. the amendment that the committee supports, please vote. Vote. [[13:10:12]] For-88 88. The decision is not made. Forty lacquers. Kugel, please, 40 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u189	With the right, I asked to exclude a part of the second that provided that it was not subject to the regulation of this law to provide for the needs of coowners of a multi - apartment building by self - insurance in accordance with article 22 on the unification of joint owners of a multi - apartment building. No, Your Honor, Mrs. Allo, all equal terms for all those who are co-owners, who created the OSBB and who didn't. And so this rule needs to be ruled out, not to make certain conditions for your lobbyist orientations, you put in all the other Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u190	Please, Mrs. Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, look at the wording in which this second part was adopted: since the law regulates relationships based on treaties, that is, there are parties to a contract that are negotiated with each other. So we made it clear that "is not the subject of regulation of this law of the relationship that arises between the co-owners and the co-owners and the union of the co-owners" because the union of the co-owners is not a service provider, it's just an association that unites the co-owners. That's why Mrs. Kugel's 40 was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u192	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 40 people's deputies, Kugel, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports Amendment 40, please vote. [[13:12:21]] For-48 The decision is not made. Next, 60s, Kugel. What's that? 42nd. One second, 42 lines. 42th is Babak's correction. 42nd, Derevyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u193	Thank you. Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party, New Forces Movement. Dear colleagues and a distinguished reporter! We talked to you on the committee on this subject, and I made a huge number of amendments that you all ignored, saying that I had given too late my mess. Instead, you, for example, added your data to number 27, added new additional sentences after the whole table was completely formed for the second reading. I want to tell you that this is a totally unacceptable form of legislative activity, and it is equally totally unacceptable to attract the interests of the oligarchs that you are stretching out today. I'm asking you to put amendment 42, 19, 58 on confirmation, and we'll move on, and I'll tell you what. Because Amendment 42 creates absolute legal uncertainty about the use of the law that consumers should use. I want the repairs again, 42, 19, 58 for confirmation. Please put them up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u194	Please, Olena Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, at home you can cook with a bursque, but you can go to the restaurant. This is a restaurant law, it doesn't talk about what relationships are and on what basis are they based among co-owners? They can, they don't give each other services, they jointly manage common assets. Therefore, this law does not extend to the owner’s relationship; it extends to the consumer’s relationship with the provider of services. We have the Property Rights Act in a multi-family house, and it regulates these relationships that arise between co-owners and co-owners and OSBB. Therefore, Your Honor, this law does not extend to their relationship; there is another law. So, your honors, I'd like to ask you to support the 42.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u196	Thank you. So the committee's asking for support on number 42. The 19th we're through, we can end up with it. We just had to be in the office during work hours, now we're looking at 42 amendments, I'm going to put it in, and then 58th. Won't that be right again, Mr. Yuri, yours? So I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 42. The committee's asking her to support it. Please vote, please support the 42 amendments, support the committee, vote. [[13:15:33]] For-96 The decision is not made. And then there's 58th. Yeah? Then I'll give you 51st. 58 I'm betting on confirmation. The committee's asking her to support it. Please vote, please support 58 revisions. [[13:16:06]] Z-91 91-yes. The decision is not made. 51 axles, Kugel, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u197	Thank you very much. This chapter was missing, some of the directions and suggestions of this amendment 51 were taken into account in part, but in principle the drafters did not take into account part 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 9, 10 and 11 of the bill, which envisaged the establishment of parliamentary control over the observance of the rights of consumers of residential services. This is the creation of an institution for authorized protection of the rights of consumers of residential services. Please tell me, which one of you has not been approached by people that they cannot get the right information, they cannot protect themselves when they display false accounts? So ignoring the establishment of parliamentary control by Parliament is very surprising. And I ask you to support the establishment of parliamentary control over consumer rights under articles 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u198	Please, Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u199	Our logic was that, in theory, it is usually possible to develop an institution empowered to protect consumers’ rights, such as inspections, public authorities, and so forth. But in order to bring such a ruler to Parliament. the authorized, necessary amendments to the Supreme Council Rules and other laws. Therefore, we believe that this requires a separate legislative arrangement for the establishment of such an institution, since it is not likely to be fully resolved by such separate paragraphs in the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u200	Thank you. So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 51 people's deputies, Kugel, who support it. Of course, who supports it to be fully accounted for, and the committee has only considered it in part, please vote, 51 amendments. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:18:28]] For-73 73-yes. The decision is not made. Next, 60s, Kugel, insists, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u201	Article 4 of the Act states who are members of legal relations in the area of housing services. In my proposal, apart from the consumer and the manager, and the public service provider, add "state authorities and local self-government." This is principled, for most of them depend on the provision of some utilities from local self - government, and we do not include them in members of the legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u202	Dear colleagues! We believe that the parties to a legal relationship are actually parties to a contract, and if the treaty is a party to a local government, it acts as a consumer. If you think we need to add "relationships," the question is, in what way are they going to join, because legally in a contract we don't write that local self-government body. If there is a desire in Parliament to support, please, of course, this is a right which, for Parliament's consideration, can be fully supported. But I explained why we did not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u203	So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 60 people's deputies, Kugel. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:20:17]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Next: 75th, Petaovka. Don't insist. Constantinowski. Don't insist. 89th, Sažko doesn't insist. 105th, Constantinowski. Don't insist. 119th, Constantinowski. Don't insist. Yes, 128th Kudlainka. Don't insist. 120th? 128th, yeah. 120th, Drevijanka, please. 120th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u204	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow MPs, may I have your attention? The thing is, all the amendments that I've been ignoring, that's not just from me, that's the amendments from the Association of BZB and BZB that couldn't get through to the drafters because they were stretching their line very hard. And the point is that all of them today are crying out about the fact that this law does not intend to introduce individual contracts as the basis for the relationship between the consumer and the supplier, but rather collective. That's why I'm forced to place on record today those amendments that should be considered in a normal state, and I therefore ask for confirmation of the amendment of 120 Mrs. Babak, as well as 128, which only narrow down rights, including consumers and extend the rights of additionally, actually, suppliers. Thank you. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u205	Please, Olena Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, this is again another manipulation of information. Today, article 22 of the Law on the Unification of Co-owners of Multiple Houses states that unification is to its own. It can act as a collective consumer by its decision. This is an active rule of the OSBB Act. We had no right not to foresee such a form of relationship here. That's why we harmonised the OSBB Act with the draft Housing and Communal Services Act and wrote what "collective consumer" could be. That's why it's here. But it's a voluntary form that is chosen by the owners if they want it. Please open article 22 and stop this manipulation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u207	So I put an amendment to the vote first 120th, then 128th. And I'm asking my colleagues to take jobs. The committee wants these changes to be supported -- 120th and 128th. So I'm betting on maintaining the 120th amendment. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. 120th Amendment. The committee supports it and the committee urges it to support it. Vote. [[13:23:27]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. And amendment 128, the committee supports it. Please vote, please support 128. What? [[13:23:49]] For-78 The decision is not taken. He's correcting me. Of course, yes. 118th, right? 117th, Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, the worst thing about this bill is the absence of a consumer and its protection. 117. The amendment requests the deletion of paragraph 10, which provides that, in the event of late payments for residential services, the payment of the penalty shall be based on the size established by law or agreements for the provision of residential services. This article should be deleted. I'll bet you this point 10. And I ask you not to vote for him and remove the foam from our citizens. Because today we know, because of the price rise, we have 20 billion failures to pay utilities. What are you doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u209	I'll make it clear: 117 was rejected, 117. Are you just trying to get her back in the hall? Please, Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, surely this law, because it is the law for the settlement of relations, must comply with the Civil Code of Ukraine, which determines that the essential conditions of any treaty are the rights, obligations of the parties, and responsibility and sanctions for non-compliance. If Parliament believes that we are in general the area of residential services in part of the parties' commitment to do something separate in civil law, I think this decision should be made by this Parliament. But I just want to point out that on April 1st of this year, according to all the utilities, 93.4 percent of the sums paid for: for heat -- 91, for water -- 110, for housing -- 95 percent, for electricity -- 78 percent and 96 percent for household waste. So what we're talking about right now is that we're going to support a minority that doesn't pay, and we're going to ignore the interests of the majority who pay. That is why the decision on foam is certainly the decision of this Parliament. Whether we have them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u211	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Alexander, specify. Turn on Kugel's microphone, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u212	I would like to make it clear that I am asking that paragraph 10 of the second part of article 5, which provides for payment by the citizens of a penny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u213	Correction, name the correct number.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u214	For confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u215	What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u216	I had a 117th amendment. I'm betting on the confirmation point.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u217	There's no such thing. Mrs. Alexander, look, we're working on the repairs. The amendment was rejected by the committee, and the hall can support it. And that's actually me putting it to a vote. So whoever supports amendment 117, National Deputy Kugel, rejected it, please vote. Please. [[13:27:17]] For-61 61-yes. The decision is not made. Yeah, we're moving on. So in 128 we put it, stop calling the same amendments. 134th, Derevyanka. Then 190th, Yvchenko. 134th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u218	Honourable Andrew Volodymyrovich, a respected colleague, has just been told by the reporter that this law provides for a voluntary opportunity to make individual contracts. Instead, it does not say that 80 percent of the text and meaning of the law is related to collective agreements that are dominant, which will be imposed on all of our consumers in fact, which will mean that people who pay will pay for themselves and for those who do not pay. Today, when you're not paying. Today, when there is a payer who owes a service provider, the service provider applies to the court on a case-by-case basis to the person who has not paid for the service. Tomorrow, after the adoption of this law, with all the amendments that, unfortunately, are already taken into account, we will have a situation when we pay both for those who do not pay and for ourselves! So I'm asking you to put 134 in, 176 in, and 190 in. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u219	Please, Olena Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u220	Dear colleagues! It's just I think it's a diversion, what the National MP just did. Since he is of the steward’s rights and duties, did you hear what he was talking about? He was talking about force or something, individual contracts or something. This is an article on the rights and duties of a manager who, if people make direct contracts with monopolies, i.e.: a monopoly apartment, they can get information from a consumer, a manager, a change of owner. About the actual number of permanent residents, creating quality management systems, conducting certifications, making monthly distributions of public buildings, and so on. So now it's actually what you said exactly the opposite. Your argument and this article that tells us that people can be on direct, individual contracts and there are certain functions of a manager who can also participate in these processes. Because he's serving the house. So, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support 134 amendments as one that has nothing to do with reasoning.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u221	Thank you. Mrs. Olena, I'm going to put all these checks in for confirmation. But in the end, in the last report I'm going to give you an opportunity, well, watch out, let me tell you what are the principles of law enforcement. And there'll be a chance to get back to them. You just have to figure out what the principles are. I'm now voting for amendment 134. The committee's asking her to support it. Colleagues, I ask those who support this bill, which supports the committee's position, to support it. So this is regulation 134. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:30:41]] For 122 The decision is not taken. 176th, the committee's asking her to support her for confirmation. Please vote 176. [[13:31:03]] For-123 The decision is not taken. And 190 for confirmation. The committee's asking her to support it. Please vote. [[13:31:23]] For-126 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, just so we can get a sense of who's still going to insist on the layout so that I can get a sense of where I'm going. He'll insist once, two, three, four. If you could give me a sense of what is the number of rights? Approximately. One, five, Mrs. Alexander, three. Lechenko? Two, yes. Come on, fellows, that's who insists, and I'll give it to you, and maybe you'll call it a block right now and then we'll move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, we're going to the law, it's okay. Please, Mrs. Alexander. Turn on Kugel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u222	167 law. We, together with Deputy John Krulko, have submitted, assuming that part three of article 7 should be excluded, which provides for the possibility (written) "at the request of the consumer, payment may be made in advance." Whoever's in business knows that Mr. Ahemtov and everyone else is demanding an advance for their services. I ask you to vote off the right to pay the advances to utilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u223	Thank you. So I'm betting. So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 167 people's deputies, Kugel. She was rejected by the committee. Whoever supports the Kugel amendment, please vote. [[13:33:24]] Z-71 The decision is not made. 235 then, I'll give 204, but call three of your own right away, if you don't mind. Please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u224	Thank you. Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party, New Forces Movement. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, here the reporter spoke of this as a diversion when we want to make this law better. So let me tell you that the diversion is not this, the diversion is when in elections in different democratic parties, the oligarchs lay their eggs in different baskets, then the birds hatch out of these eggs and then these birds defend the interests of the oligarchs by discrediting these democratic forces. So I want to tell you that this is a real diversion. So when we talk about protecting individual consumers today, let's protect ourselves specifically in this room. So I'm asking for confirmation of the terms and conditions of the housing and utility contracts -- this is amendment 204 for confirmation. The other one. 222th, which refers to the order in which such contracts are made. And the third. 231st. So these 3 amendments, I ask you to put them on the stand and not allow the oligarchs to extend their interests through these birds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u225	Please, Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, that's the nonsense of what's going on. The law provides that all services will be provided under standard contracts approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. We have to make the law, according to the law, what are the essential conditions of these covenants. Thus, it was written that the essential conditions were: list of services; quality requirements; rights and obligations; liability of the parties; price of services; order of payment; order of the terms of the contract; time of the contract. It's like an instruction to the Cabinet to accept the default agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, what are the oligarchs here? Please be supportive. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u227	Thank you. I'm betting on confirmation of the 204, the committee is asking her to support it. Please vote 204 for confirmation. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:35:50]] For 135 135. The decision is not made. 222th for confirmation. The committee's asking her to support it. Please vote, please support. [[13:36:12]] For 109 Thank you. 231st for confirmation. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee supports it. I ask you to vote, please support. [[13:36:34]] For-125 The decision is not made. Two corrections, Lechchenka. Mr. Yuri, you're correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u228	I have two amendments: 188th and 242nd, just separately, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u229	All right, one minute at a time. 118th, Levechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u230	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. This bill introduces a very interesting norm, I think it's a completely absurd thing that people report an increase in tariffs within 10 days of their entry into force. Where's the logic? So the tariffs were introduced, and then they said they were increased? I'm sorry, guys, this is totally ridiculous. So my amendment is exactly suggesting that people report at least 10 days before the introduction of new tariffs, that's logical, because they report things before they become effective, not after they've increased your tariffs, and now please pay. Do you understand? So please consider this amendment because I think it's obvious things for any rational person.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u231	Mr. Yuri, I'm not wrong. Did you make 188 corrections? This is the amendment of the national MP Yvchenka. Why? Please, Olena Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u232	This is the order of 199 people's deputies, and in fact we duplicate the situation that is today, that if a decision is made, then the decision is made, the information about the decision taken by the authorized authority to change the price is being made by the consumer within 15 days, i.e. people cannot be warned of the decision. That is, decisions are made, and we are obliged to inform the consumer of the decision made within 15 days. But there are also rules in the law about prior information, about a desire to change the price. Because there is a law that has been passed, remember the President, where the issues of submission, consumer information about price change and change intentions are also addressed here. But this is about information about the decision that has already been made, so it's not supported, it's 199th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u233	So this is 199 amendments. They didn't change anything. I have it in the table. And I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 199 People's Deputy Levchenk, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:39:28]] For-80 The decision is not made. Please, sir. Let me get Yvchenka and then you. Okay? Please, Yvchenko, two minutes. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u234	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I want to support my colleagues, Devyanko, Levchenko, Kugel, who have actually studied the bill. See what the consumer is again relying on? First of all, to pay for the cost of internal building services, to pay for the cost of internal gas and electricity systems. In this context, there will be an increase in tariffs for gas distribution on the basis of the cost of technical maintenance of indoor gas supply systems. Dear colleagues, the executive's right to pay compensation for individual categories of citizens of the benefit and the subsidies awarded to residential and utility services is being revoked, and the legal situation of consumers is deteriorating when the contract is concluded. I'm already silent about what colleague Lechchenko said, that when they, Lehchenko, apologize that when they change the tariff, they increased the consumer's information period from 10 to 15 days. And it is also envisaged that a service contract will be concluded with the executives, not each of the joint owners of the apartment building, but with the entire manager. Colleagues, these are really bills that the first one, the second one, they don't meet the requirements that are expected of us today by the people who formed the OSBB. So I'm going to ask you to make the following changes for confirmation: 240, 35 and. 240, 35 and 231. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u235	Don't make a mistake. 240, 235 and
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u236	240 and 305.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u237	35. Let's make the adjustments. 305? 305 and the last?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u238	240 and 305.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u239	Yeah, two: 240 and 305 are two. Please, Olena Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u240	240 revisions she speaks of the order of making changes and terminating contracts. I cannot understand where and what Mr. Yvchenko was talking about. You were talking about one thing, and in the context of the treaty termination. If we put it to a vote now, you know, the text includes the article on termination of contracts and terms. If that's what we need, I can see it's destructive here. But, dear colleagues, please tell me, who in this room knows how much he pays for maintaining his inner-house networks? How much? On a cubic meter or a square meter, right? How much do you pay for coming to your apartment and taking down the counter, the monopolistics? How much do you pay for a counter? You know that? This law makes payment structure transparent, every element of payment will be a clear line of contract, it will have a cost, such as network maintenance. Everything will be clearly described and a person will make decisions taking into account information.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u241	Thank you. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. That's how I vote them. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote, 240 for confirmation, the committee supports it, and requests a room to support Amendment 240. Please vote, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u242	It's about how contracts are made. An article is in progress.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u243	Please be supportive. [[13:43:17]] For-153 153-yes. The decision is not made. And Amendment 305 - to be confirmed, the committee is also asking to support it. Please vote, please support. [[13:43:39]] For-140. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I want to warn you in five or seven minutes, we should finish the discussion. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite deputies to the Hall and ask the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall. Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u244	There are many more rights, Mr. Andrew. I want to point out that we were given a new license plate this morning, and that's why it's so hard right now. They had no right to do that. And so let's do it consistently. 185 of the law's bill states that the local authority chooses the governor and decides to give him the salary he has accepted on a competitive offer. Excuse me, but what are we going to pay for making their relatives our stewards? I'm asking you to add: "but not above the average market and necessarily agreed with the consumer." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u245	Thank you. So I'm voting for 185 people's deputies, Kugel. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:45:11]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Turn it on, Kugel, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u246	Cool.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u247	187th, Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u248	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that in this amendment we have asked that this amendment be complemented by "obligatory reconciliation with the consumer of the management of the apartment building." It is written that this amendment is supposedly included in the second part of this article. But I am looking at the second part of this article, and there is no rule that the management of the apartment house is in the proper order. So I ask for this amendment to the vote, and I ask you to support it. Because it makes sense when the consumer is reconciled with all the things that happen in their apartment building. And what's more, Andry Volodymyrovich, I'm asking you to do a brand-new trailer right now so that the committees, when they're passing bills for second reading, don't change them. Because this means that after the second reading, there was still some manipulation of the text. Let's say in our papers this amendment was number 175, and now it's under number 187.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u249	Please, Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u250	Dear colleagues, every law should be viewed in the general context of the law. It's about a manager who's chosen on competitive grounds by a local self-governance authority, which means that in the house the owners didn't know how to manage their own house. So here it goes that after the competition, there was a competition, a select manager, a set price, and there was already a settlement, so people didn't make their own decisions. In all other cases, when the owners make their own decisions, nothing happens without them. Both the cost and the terms of the contract, taking into account the default, all agree in general congregations, without this decision being taken at all. So in this case, if there was a contest, and we still have to go, to reconcile something. We give the right in this case when, after the competition, people change their manager in two months at all, if they didn't like him and were elected local self-government. You don't like anything - change this manager, take your contract, and make a determination. So this was about the governors.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u251	Thank you. So I'm voting on amendment 187. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:48:09]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Eutusek, Sergey Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u252	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I also want to draw attention to some destructive work of the committee, Mr. Head, because in this Talmud, it's very difficult to find a necessary correction that is supposed to correspond to its numbering. So I'd like to make 361 amendments for confirmation. I'll say that the provision of residential services, first of all, shows that it should be of quality. And we can't stimulate the quality of this service for those who provide it by making amendments that don't allow a resident-communal service provider to be held accountable. And this amendment just part three of article 24 puts it in such a way that the capacity of the resident-communal service provider to relieve the liability for the inequitable provision of housing-communal services is expanded. I think we need to stimulate, give more responsibility to those who provide these services.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u253	Please, Olena Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u254	On the contrary, it says here that if we make an individual contract, that is, if we have an agreement between an apartment and a monopoly, that is, not a collective agreement, not a collective consumer or any other model, the monopolist is also responsible for the interior building systems and the engineering networks of the consumer's premises, i.e. responsible for the quality of the apartment. Today it's not, today you have individual contracts, but quality is not the responsibility of a monopoly. For this. Well, it's a vacuum. That's why we're trying to settle and we're saying that in individual contracts, the whole chain of relationships between a monopolist and an apartment is the responsibility for the quality of a monopolist. In case. That's why it's a specialty. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, in case. [[B in m in s a l in]] What is the correction? — 2 Timothy
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u255	So I'm going to vote 361. Eutushka! 361, right? 361. I'll give you that. [[B in m in s a l in]] 361 I'm betting on confirmation. The committee's asking her to support it. So let me vote. Please be supportive. [[13:51:03]] Z-91 91. The decision is not made. Colleagues, who else insists on editing? Three, right? How much? Tree tree? Three, right? Tree tree, please. Wooden, call it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u256	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, we have missed a very important amendment 347 that predicts that if payments for residential services are not made in a timely manner, the consumer is obliged to pay the penalty in the amount of the contract, but not more than 0.01 per cent per day. And the billing starts on the first day of work, the last day of the deadline for payment for the HKG. I want to say that this amendment must be made for confirmation. Why, because dominant collective agreements will provide that those who have paid will pay for those who have not paid, or they will think: Pay or not pay. But they're going to start counting the foam from the moment that the entire house, the whole house without individual contracts, is going to accumulate this debt. So I'm asking you to put this on confirmation, 347 of the amendment. And the one that goes next to Mr. Ivchenk, who spoke, 362nd. Thank you. And then I'll say one more thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u257	362 is already named. 347, 362. And call the last one, please. One more, call her.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u258	I'll do it in the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u259	Colleagues, you know, I understand this technology: to delay it so that it doesn't make a decision. But the question of discussion is to have a discussion on this subject. And now I'm putting two amendments that have been made to confirm. Who supports the 347 amendment, the committee supports, the committee asks for the 347 amendment, please vote. [[13:53:17]] For 118 118. The decision is not made. And 362? Now I'll give you my word and you'll be able to speak. Who supports the 362 amendment for confirmation? The committee's offering to support it. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:53:48]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. The camera, I've stopped working on the monitor. Please, Alexandra Kugel. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u260	Mr. Andrey, I very much appeal to you not to violate the Rules and to look at all the proceedings. This is our legislative work. And "don't chase horses" by adopting innocuous laws. So there's no Ukrainian citizen in this bill, there's no consumer. I'm asking 236 rights to delete the words that we, consumers, pay an extra fee for customer service. Please back up so they don't yell, "pull their eyes out who voted for it!"
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u261	So, 236 a's, right? I'll find her. 236 people's deputy Kugel's rights have been rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[13:55:13]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Last one? Haven't you? Two, right? Let's get Yvechenka to the last two. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u262	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Andrey Volodymyrovich, when we're preparing drafts, we look at each revision and we read it and we read it. You don't have to blame MPs who have other points of view. And if Mr. Derevyanko was reading an application that clearly states that the performer of public services is not responsible for not offering it or not offering it in full or inadequate quality, it was 344. And then we found out it's 361s. That's what I'm talking about. We prepare one table, and then we're handed out before the meeting. And believe me, we're trying to make sure that consumers don't get paid for residential services. And I wanted to put 437 on confirmation that there was a warning, if the other one wasn't established by law, which created the prerequisites for translating the marked costs on the consumer's shoulders, that's Babak's readjustment. So once again, I want you to understand, we're trying to learn the law. We have a different concept.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u263	You said there were two revisions. Call the second one, please. Give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u264	437 revisions are one. I just want to ask you, we see a different concept today. Today, this law translates responsibility for payment, maintenance of interior networks, and other consumer services. We don't want people to pay more today when they create OSBs, and collective contracts with the manager are nonsensus at all, without asking any resident of the house whether their interests are taken into account or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u265	Please comment. Olena Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u266	Dear colleagues, if you will. I was approached by representatives of several Associations of OSB and they said it was their direct language, sorry: we're not going to let Firtash into our house. They did not want a monopolistic service in the interior. This law puts the owner’s right to determine who will serve the interior networks. And here everything is built on the decision-making of the owners in the definition of who will serve the inside. That's the first one. The other one. If you don't think you're paying today for domestic service, it's a second myth or a third, or a twenty-fifth for today. You pay in rent, in the service of "preservation of houses, buildings, innuendo territories," you pay for the service of interiors, but you don't even know how much and what system. So what we're talking about here is that it's a separate fee that matches the owners' net worth and then you understand who's going to give you this service better. And the last thing we said was, the performer's not answering. Yeah, we open people's eyes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u267	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u268	performers today are not responsible for quality. I mean, water and water supply and heating providers. If you think they're answering you to the tap with individual contracts, you're wrong, because each of the deputies had a complaint from people about what the monopolies are writing to you: "And here the inner building network is shut down. And here, you don't have a house warmed up." So we say, if you have an individual agreement, please answer to the tap. And it says, "Except for the individual." The individual is responding, and if the other contract is, then the honourable, and it's not responding. And let's be honest with people, not now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u269	Thank you. So I'm voting on Amendment 437 for confirmation. The committee's asking her to support it. Colleagues, please concentrate, we're about to move on to making a decision. Please vote 437 for confirmation. Please vote, please support. [[13:59:47]] For-163 163. The decision is not made. Please concentrate on which ones. Tell me which one. Now it's Yuri Lewchenko and then it's Kugill. Please, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u270	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Well, first of all, about the technical element of the adoption of this bill. When I made my last amendment, I actually said the wrong number. And it turns out that I said the wrong number, and now I'm starting to figure out that the final table came from the Supreme Council website tonight. Full violation of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And so it seems to me that this was done on purpose to get those deputies, not a lot, there's about a dozen of these deputies in this room who are really interested in the billings, now they're called not the numbers, but they're being put on the sneer, as the reporter is doing right now, and they're saying that you don't know what you're talking about. That's why they did: they broke the Rules. And I would like to point out that when people are constantly talking about what they show people, what they're paying for, show people what they're paying for. The reporter, you seem to forget that people have to pay first, not to know what they're paying for, because if they know what they're paying for, but they won't have anything to pay for, it won't help them much. When, in particular, the bill introduces a compulsory subscription. Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u271	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u272	When this bill introduces a mandatory subscription for all utility services, as recently made with gas, for example, the NCRE said: well, we made a subscription, but in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u273	Ten seconds has passed. Please, Kugel. These are the last amendments. Please, I'm asking all the deputies to come to the hall. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. 205, I remember, I remember 207 more amendments. Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u274	Thank you. Mrs. Alona, you promised after the adoption of this bill to give authority, I understand, political responsibility, you don't want to take responsibility for this bill. And to understand the faction "self-help" that it will be politically responsible for this bill. And so once again, you're telling the truth because you know that direct contracts can be concluded where there's only OSBB. In fact, on your bill, 90 percent of Ukraine did not respond and now implement a violent administrator for all people, whom we will not set up a salary, and we still can't amend 299 to terminate the contract if it doesn't fulfil its obligations, we don't have the specificity of commercial accounting here. I mean, this bill can't be adopted in a second reading, it's a disgrace to the Ukrainian Parliament and it's disrespect for the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u275	Thank you. And the last amendment of 207. I'll give you my word. Last one, 207th, Martovicki. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u276	Dear colleagues! The failure to accept the amendment is a risk of a chaotic repair of the current network by various service providers. Secondly, there is no norm in the text of the bill with which the contract is to be made for the maintenance of interior networks, for the management of OSBB or for each owner of the apartment. Thirdly, if co-owners are not united, it is not possible to calculate the cost of internal building services and pull them together. There are different providers of thermal energy and hot supply services, they will use a central heat point, and so on, which will complicate the division of responsibility and cost zones. So I'm asking you to put this amendment to confirm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u277	I put to the vote Amendment 207 Martovitchki, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. And I'm asking you to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. I'll give the closing statement to another committee representative. [[14:04:06]] For-63 The decision is not made. Please, 10 seconds, Drevijanka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u278	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, I would like to draw attention now to the fact that this law needs to be worked out. Unfortunately, he's not very quality right now, unfortunately, the factions in favour of the maintenance of the regulations have severely violated the regulations and from the point of view of the distribution of tables, and from the point of view of it at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u279	Give me 30 seconds, briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u280	The previous bill, the same oligarchical one, was supported in the full composition of "The Cloud," because there are owners of all these networks. Now, I'm guessing it's going to be the same situation. Please do not accept this bill in second reading, refine it and make it quality, and do not talk about good intentions during bad work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u281	The final word of the representative of the Committee on Construction and Construction, and the Bakuq Alona Valeriyivni, please turn on the microphone and prepare for the decision to enter the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u282	Dear colleagues, I will respond to some comments. First, with regard to the subscriber’s salary, which is mandatory for all services. No, it's not gas or electricity, it's there, it's there, it's going to be applied exclusively under individual contracts. There was a confusing position here, what is an individual agreement? It's only when the monopoly goes to the tap, to the battery, in all other cases the owners always have a choice and, at least, three choices where the subscriber's fee doesn't count, they choose either the OSBB or the HKG, or the manager. So it's only in one situation. The second is that with regard to political responsibility, yes, I will leave Parliament and then I will not be in the status of a national MP, but a consumer who will use services like all other consumers. So, accordingly, I think that I should live in the same way that we all do under this law. As for the stewards who are being coerced. As for the governors, the honourable colleagues, people today say you gave us the right to choose the manager, but you didn't give us a typical one.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u283	One more minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u284	Cities can't do tenders today, ask your cities where you represent your political forces, they can't do tenders because there's no typical management contract. Dearly beloved, the reform of housing and utilities is blocked, people are limited in the realization of their rights. Therefore, respectable colleagues. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is in accordance with this law. [[B in m in s a l in]] According to the Law on the Law. 417, the other terms of the treaty do not match the ability of Kabin to approve this treaty today, they cannot accept it, there is no law. And that's why we're blocking all the reform in Ukraine, and people are sitting there and there's nothing they can do, we'll wait. As far as this bill is concerned, Your Honor, we're doing a lot of paperwork. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Questions. I think we need to ask the hall what to do next today. Since we are going to go to the second again, the next time we are going to do the same through the revisions, we are going to do the whole thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u285	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u286	So decide how the committee should continue to work, because the work was very serious, very thorough, very detailed, taking into account all the features of the laws that have just been passed on the natural gas market, on the electricity market, on the Nazcomsia regulation, do you have any idea how long this law has been in Parliament? As much as it took for us to prove ourselves all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u287	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone and let's move on to the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u288	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! It was very strange to learn that some of our national deputies did not know what people were paying for today. They're paying today for the interior networks, they're paying for the services, and today, unfortunately, it's not settled. The only thing that's very important to us right now is, first, the house management contract, because when we say that we're forming an energy efficiency market, we're creating tools to enable the state to give help to the owner, so today, unfortunately, we don't have a tool to allow people to manage their property. The second question. Before that, we were looking at a commercial bill. And also the question of housing services, and so we need to take people off the standard cost of monopolies so that people don't pay too much: ripped pipes, unattended services or unprofitable services. And so, look, since 2015 we've been practically considering this law. I realize that it's practically going to be a block away from getting our consumers quality services.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u289	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u290	Fair service. And the main thing is to allow people to control their property. And I'll be honest, after the 417 law was passed, it's gone. Dishonesting people about what will really enable them to manage their homes. For today, the practical immobilization of the JECKs that take place there does not release people, because the repairs of the housing fund and the questions, in general, of the municipal repairs, of the interior networks today are huge amounts of money that are tied up and that are not released.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u291	Please make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u292	I have an offer to try and send him back to read again. But the committee really needs to work it out and take note of all these comments, and translate this issue from a political perspective into the protection of consumer rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m0.u293	Colleagues, I'll ask the hall a question: does everyone support the second reading? Is that a compromise position? Then I don’t even put it in general, but I immediately put the second reading on the committee. And that's going to be supported, yeah. This is going to be a compromise position. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote, come into the hall. And I'm voting on the draft Housing Services Act (1581-Deputy) for a second reading committee. The committee's re-reading. Let's all mobilize and vote together. That's the deal we made, so we don't generally put it that way. Please repeat second reading, 1581 (Deputy). Please vote, please support your colleagues. Vote. [[14:11:29]] For 225 One voice. Colleagues, please! Please stay put! Colleagues, don't leave the hall. I'll bet you back to 1581. I would like to vote in favour of the return to consideration of 1581. Please vote, please support. Please support the return to 1581. Please vote and support the return. Please be careful, every voice has a weight. [[14:12:07]] For 227 And, colleagues, I'm betting again, we agreed that we would support this proposal, the second reading again, 1581, the draft Housing and Utilities Act. Once again, we agreed that we would support him, colleagues. I ask everyone to vote and support. It was our deal, I'm asking her to hold out. Please vote second reading again 1581. Vote please, colleagues. Carefully, each voice has a weight. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues, please. Please vote and support. Vote. [[14:12:51]] For 232 Decision taken. I want to work with the committee so that we can make a positive decision the second time. I hereby declare the morning session of the plenary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 16 o'clock we'll continue our work. And I'd like everyone to come into the room at 4:00 for the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
