ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Can we have the registration? They're still asking me to wait 20 seconds. Please take up jobs. So, colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[10:05:40]] 350 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today we are celebrating a real Ukrainian Day of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. On that day we mention every Ukrainian soldier. Deep gratitude and respect for the modern - day Ukrainian knights who at this moment protect us with you and a peaceful life throughout the country. Health, military luck, reliable shoulders, brothers, and let the bullets pass you by. You will be defeated by our warriors and by seven of us! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the leaders of the Ukraine Security Service, Vasil Sergiyovich Gritzak, have confirmed their participation: the heads of the SAP and NABU have announced that they will not be able to attend the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So today, I invited the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, as well as the Attorney General. But my suggestion is that we hear them at 12:30. And by 12 o’clock, we have drafts of great importance that we've been preparing for a long time. This is a question that relates to the resistance to domestic violence. The advantage of these bills is that they are supported by the entire hall, the entire hall and all the factions in this room. And we may have no other chance of being able to look at them. And so, colleagues, there's a proposal that after the national MPs speak, we be able to vote on the social protection of children with disabilities, the resistance to domestic violence within 12 hours. And at 12:30, I invite you to the speech of Vasil Sergiyovich Gritsak. The only thing we're going to do is spend less time than yesterday, because yesterday it was a very long time for us to be able within an hour and a half, from 12:30 to 2 hours to listen to and give the closing word to Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko, because unfortunately yesterday I didn't warn him of the need for a closing word. Does this form of work take place? Roger that. So, colleagues, now for half an hour, he's speaking from the national MPs, then an hour and a half to pass the laws that are laid down by day in order to protect children with disabilities and to resist domestic violence. So all the colleagues who want to participate in the discussion, I'll remind you, today, the recording of the national MPs, not the factions who want to participate, I'm asking you to do the recording. Please. Galasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u3	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The noble people of Ukraine! Our taxes with you today are largely part of the development of other countries' economies, creating jobs and paying wages in other countries. Why? Because today the public procurement system is built so that it is very much oriented towards imported products. 275 billion dollars a year is spent through the public procurement system, that's our taxes with you, that's a crazy amount, that's 12 percent of Ukraine's GDP. Part of imported or imported goods in government purchases, estimated at 38 percent. For comparison. This is less than 5 percent in the United States and Japan. In the European Union, that's an average of 7 percent, and we have 38, think about it, over 100 billion dollars per year are washed into imported ingredients by government purchases. What's more, when we buy abroad what Ukraine is producing today, or is capable of producing ourselves, it means that we voluntarily feed other countries, we impose economic sanctions on ourselves, we create jobs in other countries when Ukrainians sit without jobs and don't even sit and go abroad to work to earn 300-400 euros to survive to make a transfer to their families. They destroy their families for survival. Is this the right economic policy? That's how it works, because today's legislation predicts that tenders have one essentially criterion: price. 99 percent of the tenders are at a price. In the United States and in the European Union, that is not the case. For example, in Britain, France, Holland, less than 10 percent of government purchases take place at a price because they include other factors, including guarantees, including quality, local ingredients. The Radical Party team initiated the historic bill "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians". And we are extremely grateful to the more than 30 national deputies of all factions and groups of parliament who have supported this State initiative. We suggest that government purchases be made on the basis of a multifactor model with mandatory local ingredients. That's how it's supposed to work. In the United States, since 1933, the Buy American Act has been in force. Under this law, try to sell at U.S. government purchases products that have less than 50 percent localization. And there's a direct price advantage of 12 percent for an American small producer. Oleg Lášk and I offer 25 percent of the value for Ukrainian products. So we're going to force our taxes with you to work for the Ukrainian economy, create jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u4	Thank you. The national deputies of Lozov Andri and Kirichenko Aleksy, two deputies give the floor for the performance of Láško Oleg Valeriyovich. So please remove Lozova and Kirichenko, and six minutes Lazka. Prepare Musai after him. Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u5	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. First of all, I'd like to welcome the defenders of our country, our home Ukraine, with the festival, the Day of Fatherland's Defender. The Radical Party team is truly, ground-based to the volunteers, the defenders, the volunteers, all the heroes who hold their arms against the enemy, who make a victory in the back, providing food, ammunition, technology -- they're military-industrial workers, military companies, all those who work to win. And that's the key, we want to have a strong country, we have to win. To win, first of all, we need to be strong, and in order to be strong, we need to develop an economy. I want to go to the Ukrainians right now and say some very important things. Yesterday they were talking about Saakashvili, yesterday, tomorrow, and so on. Say "halva" a thousand times. No Saakashvili will give you a job or pay, no shocks will make you a strong country. People are good, listen! 26 years we've been walking around, one revolution, that was a revolution at 10 years of age, and now we're going to have a quarter of a revolution. What do we need: revolutions, jobs, wages, pensions, medicine, or education, or the lives of Ukrainians? As a result of all these revolutions, most people already want to live outside the country, because any revolution must pursue one goal: a strong country worthy of Ukraine, a rich Ukraine and worthy of Ukraine. When adventurers such as Saakashvili and its herds, who sit here and here in the hall, when the authorities who brought this Saakashvili to Ukraine, when they make the Kremlin's money, what do they fight for? Are they fighting for your jobs, or for cows in Ukrainian villages, or for pensioners? No, they fight for themselves, they fight for power, and the price of this fight is the future of the country, the future of each Ukrainian. Instead of demanding and solving the problems of raising the welfare of Ukrainians all day yesterday, considering the budget, seeking options for supporting a national producer, we are talking about a Georgian sunset that jumps like a psycho on roofs. I watched a cartoon about Carlson when I was a kid, and now we're watching a new Carlson. It is a matter of demeaning the Georgians, our brothers, as President of Georgia, to jump on the kyiv krill krill, how to humiliate the Ukrainians, how to humiliate themselves. We speak the law one for all, so everyone has to answer. Special Forces yesterday, Henprocuror showed evidence that the Yanukovich gang is funding state coup operations in Kiev. If you're not guilty, go, like all of us, to court and prove your innocence. I was prosecuted six months ago, I think the case was forged, the case was violated illegally, but I went to the interrogation, my mother went to the interrogation, my family went to the interrogation, I didn't spit like a sick man, I went to the roofs, I went to the interrogation. And I'm willing to prove anywhere that this is a forged case against me. We speak the law one for all, so everyone must answer to the law: both Lazko, and Poshenko, and Saakashvili, everyone who has the charges, go to the court and argue the groundlessness of these accusations, go and fight, not break the border over Kurchenka's money, beat the Constitution, beat the law. The good people, the Ukrainians, the fool who comes here, will bring investment, create jobs, raise your wages when there's chaos, lawlessness, mess, anarchy? Where chaos, where there is no economic development, where there is no economic development, there is no strong Ukraine, where Ukraine is poor, every Ukrainian is miserable. Because unlike Saakashvili, we don't have housing in Holland or in America, we don't have anywhere to go. And so I want my own country to be rich and strong because I have nowhere to go. The wealth and strength of my home country will be on one condition when we get you to raise pensions, raise wages, protect a domestic producer, when we sell our produce more, when we are energy independent, when we buy less gas, when we buy less imports, when we earn more, then there will be a strong country. Not when Georgian murderers and bogs for money Yanukovic and FSB revolutionize Kiev, but when Ukrainian metallurgists, Ukrainian miners, Ukrainian builders, Ukrainian peasants, Ukrainian teachers, doctors will have jobs, wages, and the future for their country. Where will the future come from? There will be no fall from heaven, no Saakashvillah, no powders, and no one else will give that future. Ours. In our hands, our future, it's our job. That's why I urge all of you, dear Ukrainians, to fight for the economy, for Ukraine, for wages, for pensions, for my children, not for all the assholes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u6	Please give the next speech from the National MP Musia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u7	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I want to draw the attention of Ukrainian society and all of you to what you are voting for by practicing the pseudoreforms that are taking place in Ukraine. The best indicator of what we actually accept is working with voters. So it was time for me to work for two weeks with my constituents. And, you know, from that one shock, from the retirement pseudo-reform, where pensioners got a supplement to a salary of 100 dollars, and some of them actually got 20 and 30 dollars, and 85 percent. They have moved on to another reform that relates to the merger of two social funds. So the merger of social funds has led to, and making the right decisions by our government, that miners in my home district, namely 124 districts, Sokalščina and Red City, which ensure Ukraine's energy security, have to be deprived not only of pensions, but also of regressions. Those with disabilities who have worked 15, 20 years or more and have acquired occupational diseases, the Social Protection Fund, appear to have canceled their social pay indexes since last month. In which country is that possible? It seems that only after these pseudoreforms are adopted by our Parliament. In addition, a meeting with the head of the Social Protection Fund at the Red Cross Department revealed that the government is chronically underfunded and that social taxes are no longer funded for a year and a half, the only social contribution is not paid by miners. Thus, since December 1, the Social Protection Fund has reported that payments not only to miners but also to children will be suspended, hospital bills will be suspended. How many can we go on the same graves? I'm asking you to consider my speech as a deputy appeal, in turn, because there has been a parliamentary request, by the way, recently from the rostrum of the Vice-President of the Supreme Council, and on this parliamentary request came a write-off from the Ministry of Social Policy, which has sent down this parliamentary question on the issue of the regression payments to miners and the debt to miners for the regressions, again on this fund that they are not paying them. So here, Mr. Reva, the distinguished Prime Minister, please pay attention and give the personal answer that you will do immediately to pay the hospital miners to pay for the birth of the child to mining families and, in general, to stop the abuse of the pseudo-reform of the Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u8	The next speaker, John Krulko, please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u9	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. On December 24, elections will take place in united territorial communities, and it is most doubtful that these elections show what the authorities are preparing for, how the administrative resources are applied, how people are not allowed to vote, how elections are transformed into total counterfeiting. I would like to take one example from this high rostrum today: the Thayrian united territorial community, the Odessa region. Hasajev Hasan, who has the highest confidence in his community, and 23 candidates from Fatherland. He may win there, but he is willing to take away the land, the land of a united territorial community. And what do they do? And they do what the Migration Service does -- imagine! – deprives Hassan Hassaev of Ukrainian citizenship, a man who has lived in Ukraine for 40 years. The goal is that he doesn't register to remove the entire list from the registration of Fatherland, all 23 deputies, and this is a decision of the Migration Service currently being executed by the territorial election commission. It's an election in Ukrainian, an era called "life in a new way", an age called "after the Dignity Revolution". There was a trial yesterday. The court took place when people from this community came to protect him. And the court had to make a decision and oblige the territorial commission to immediately re-register him as a candidate for the head of the territorial community. This decision has not yet been implemented, unfortunately. And we demand as Fatherland that a court order be executed immediately, and Hassan Haseyev, like the entire "Fatherland" list, has been registered. But I want to say one thing: in fact, our law enforcement organs were supposed to be doing what was on this yesterday. in this session room, and really protect people's rights, restore their rights, register candidates. Those who make such decisions in the migration service have been criminalized. And in fact, we need to learn to make choices, not by the power of the law, when there is no law, but by the power of the law, when the law is in force and everyone is doing it. So in fact, there is a need for law in Ukraine, and there is a need for those who have the highest confidence to actually win. Stop bullying the Ukrainians! Obey the law! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u10	The next, please, is the invitation of the national MP Linko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u11	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Once again, I want to welcome our Armed Forces with today's celebration and remind all of us that we have a third year of war, and in all of these political pirates, we forget that the most important task we have is to do everything we can and to think about what we can do to make our army stronger so that we can win this war. Because the only guarantee of our victory in this war is our army. Not allies, not diplomacy, unfortunately, but our army stopped the enemy and stopped him and won. Ahead of the budget. We'll take the budget and 5 percent of our GDP will go to our army, but that's definitely not enough. And we can't give any more because it's going to crash the economy, so we have to do everything we can to boost the economy. From what will be a strong economy, from what will be our budget, we will be able to give more to our army and to the Armed Forces. Because the most important reform of the army is, of course, material and technical security for both soldiers and weapons and their families. Strong diplomacy, unfortunately, is showing Ukraine today. What else can we do to help the army? Undoubtedly, by strong diplomacy, there is certainly a peaceful way out so that our soldiers do not perish. To this day, however, our authorities have found no way out of this diplomatically. of this war. Unfortunately, the mine format had exhausted itself, and it was wrong from the beginning. So we have to do everything we can to find other options to force our allies, those who guaranteed our safety, to force Russia to stop the fire, so that our defenders don't die there on the front to make peace and to stop the bloodshed. The second is the struggle against the inner enemy. What our soldiers, who are standing there, will think about protecting a front that is not subject to bribery, which is impossible to bribe when they see that here in the centre of Kiev direct agents of the Kremlin, direct enemies of Ukraine for Moscow's money here are rocking the situation in order to. Similarly, the Russian Empire was once demolished for Kaiser's money to make a revolution here inside and make soldiers surrender. Because soldiers can't be bribed, and sales politicians and sales agents of the Kremlin can be brought here, rock the country, and then the soldiers can't take it anymore. So fighting an internal enemy is our job with you to help the army. Freeing the hostages, the most important problem today that our soldiers have not solved, is the release of our hostages, who for the third year have been trapped by Kremlin invaders. Therefore, we realize that not everything depends on us in this situation, but we must do our utmost to help those families, those who are waiting for their hostages. So with the celebration of our soldiers, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u12	Thank you. Please, the next one is Sergey Sobolev. Mr. Sergei, we invite you to your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u13	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today we'll listen to Mr. Gritsak. I would like Mr. Gretzak to prepare for his speech, because yesterday there was a remarkable event in the city of Zaporozhye and Zaporez. A fabricated B.S.A., with the truth of conscience and intelligence to give up the matter, the U.S.U. case against the Natal Village Council, where four deputies were preparing a coup d'état in Ukraine, failed. And the U.S.S.A. acknowledged in court the wrongness of the case. I would like those Kremlin agents who are sitting on the airlock and who are not dealing with the situation of catching the Kremlin's agency here, but who are fighting with the deputies of the rural Natal council, to be held accountable, along with the prosecutor of Romanov Zaporozhye, who was manufacturing the case. Mr. Gretzak, I want to hear at 12 o'clock your report, as the four deputies of the village council, according to a version of the procurator of the Zaporez district, prepared a coup d'état in the state of Ukraine. But why did this happen? Because the "significant" actor, the founder of the regime of Kuchma and Kravchenka, today's Governor Brill, has declared all the lands of the Zaporozhye area under the so-called basic disability company, which would seem to be processing these lands in the Zaporozhye region. One hundred acres [160 ha] of land in the village of Natalivka was to be transferred to this firm, and when the population of Natalivka took part in the protest and removed the leader of this settlement, by appointing a council secretary, then the SBU and the prosecutor's office were involved to announce the coup d'état. And the question in one is, tomorrow, where we're going to look at the moratorium on land privatization. I think that's going to be a big question for us when we put a cross on such woeous landowners who are trying on the mountain people actually to take the land into the peasants. I think the decision will be made tomorrow, but, Greesak, I want to hear from you today's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u14	Please, the next one is Alexander Wilkul, quoted by Igor Schurm. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u15	Dear people of Ukraine, first of all, I welcome all the officials of the U.S.S.S.A. with a professional holiday and a desire for peace. And I want to dedicate my speech to what soldiers and civilians are up against, the heating season. The simple question is, did the gas tariffs go up 8.2 times in four years and the flats get warmer? No, it's not. The quality of services has increased? No, it's not. It got worse, much worse. I was driving through Kirovgrad district yesterday. Are you kidding me? It's Kirovograd without heat. Because of poverty, people had the hope of subsidies. By April 2017, the number of recipients of subsidies had increased more than six times by three years. Seven and a half million families were no longer able to pay for the station. But people were again deceived by the decline in gas standards, the slight increases in inflation - consuming payments, and by October, millions of families had already received subsidies and even fewer families in the following year. Only 71 billion dollars are planned for the grant. People's debt is already more than a billion dollars. The next step is that people's debts are going to start taking away apartments. I have passed Bill 2275-1, which does not allow this to happen. But his second year does not go to the voting room. In addition to the public debt, add the non-payments to the state - owned subsidies. Out of 69 billion dollars, nearly half went to pay off the government’s debts in previous periods. Where do you get money to pay your wages, repair your networks, and develop? As a result, rising debts from wages result in massive discharges of skilled energy. They're going abroad. In Chercas, for example, in November, all the repair crews of high - voltage networks filed for release, all the repair crews. Next. Not enough coal. Two and a half million tons is required, and on December 1st, there are only one and a half tons. Because of the blockade, everything will now depend on the supply of coal from abroad. In the winter, however, the conditions of navigation deteriorated dramatically. From Pennsylvania. They pay money to American miners instead of feeding their own. We demand that tariffs be halved to an economically sound level. A thousand seven hundred is worth, sold by seven thousand. Stop taking subsidies and ensure timely payment from the state budget to energy companies and the HKG. The third heating season shows that if it does not change power, it will lead to Alcevsk throughout the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u16	Please welcome Irina Lucenko. Please, Mrs. Irina. You will be given the word of National Deputy Ishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u17	Dear friends, dear colleagues! Today, we will be considering a series of bills that will enable us to support the most vulnerable sections of the population, those citizens of Ukraine who need additional support and additional protection. These are children with disabilities, these are children who have suffered from sexual violence, these are families where women and children behind closed doors suffer from domestic violence, psychologically, physically, economically. These are problems that are not commonly spoken of openly in Ukraine. On some issues, it is embarrassing to talk about them, and they remain behind closed doors in each family. But every person comes out of his warm corner, which can be called warm, comes out to the social community, goes to work. By making decisions and obeying this long law, we have the opportunity to correct a situation that I will now call you some numbers. Research has shown that sexual violence against children committed by children who are known and associated with at home and in the family is one of the most destructive psychologically harmful forms of sexual violence that has long - term, negative, and irreversible consequences. Each year more than 3 million children in Ukraine observe or are forced to participate in domestic violence. Children of injured mothers are 6 times more likely to commit suicide, 50 percent prone to drug and alcohol abuse. Nearly 100 percent of mothers who have experienced violence have given birth to sick children, mostly neuroses, stuttering, enuresis, cerebral palsy, mental disorder. Domestic violence, nearly 70 percent of women in their own families succumb to various forms of abuse and humiliation. According to the IMF, 23 percent of serious violent crimes occur in families. Each year about one and a half thousand women, and this trend has increased and increased over the past three years, are dying at the hands of their own men. Domestic violence in Ukraine is the cause of 100,000 days of hospitalization, 30,000 calls to trauma departments and 40,000 medical calls. These figures point to the enormous extent of domestic violence for Ukraine, to the fact that there are many women in Ukraine who need professional support and wait for the help of the country in which they live. These figures raised a whole layer of other problems: this is also rehabilitation work with children, this is psychological work with offenders, their correctional work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u18	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u19	Today and tomorrow, we will have the opportunity to vote in favour of this important Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition of Domestic Violence, not only to support these people, but to resolve the issue of the future fate of families that are increasingly falling apart each year, because the family is the first social society in which Ukrainian citizens are found when we talk about their equality, men and women.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. The last one we have on this list is Yuri Derevyanco. And then in view of the fact that the Presidium does not have the ability to sign up for the performance, today he takes the word of Vice-Speaker Oksana Siroid and Vice-Speaker Irina Herashchenko, with your permission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u21	Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! At 6 a.m. this morning, people who were peacefully in front of the Supreme Council were severely beaten by force, severely beaten by a special purpose. This is contrary to the fact that yesterday, Attorney General Yuri Lucenko of this high court lied about the guarantee of a peaceful assembly of peaceful people. In the tent, where more than 35 people were found, the special forces entered, smashed people's heads, broke their ribs, and people are now partially in the hospital. Dear Mr. Lucenko, people have asked me to tell you in person that they will not dance here before the Supreme Council, to sing again, if the blood of the peaceful Ukrainians who are before the Supreme Council is shed, they will all go to your house. I very much ask you not to make any strong scenarios or provoke people. The other one. Today this was because Saakashvili was supposed to be in that tent where people were crushed in the morning. Mr. Lucenko said yesterday that the Attorney General's Office is acting exclusively legally. Dear Ukrainians, yesterday the Attorney General's Office, along with the Security Service, committed a number of criminal offences. First. No suspicions were handed over to Mr. Saakashvili yesterday. Yesterday, neither he nor his lawyer nor lawyers were given suspicions. The other one. Yesterday there was no arrest and arrest of Mr. Saakashvili, no protocol was given to anyone, and so far there is no procedural document. Third. There was no search yesterday, because after the search, the protocol is signed and after the search, a description of the items that were removed is signed. Yesterday there was a kidnapping of Saakashvili's personal belongings and no documents were signed. Thus, yesterday a crime was committed, as usual, upon the kidnapping of a person, by unlawful interference with her property, her premises. Who did this? This was done by the real partners of Kurchenka, and this was done by the real FSB agents. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to show you the business scheme, Mr. Poshenko's business partnership, Mr. Poshenko's with Kurchenk and Medvedczuk, which concerns the West Trans oil pipeline, which today costs more than $100 million, which is illegally transferred to Kurchenka and Medvedchuk today. Instead of being owned by the Ukrainian people after the collapse of the Soviet Union. It is these partners of Kurchenko, Poshenko, Medvedchuk, who are now supplying smuggling to Ukraine through this pipeline of oil products that are now at risk of losing it. Because both Saakashvili and I, and all of our citizens, all of our activists have applied to the NABU, and the NABU is actively involved in this. That's why we're addressing Ukrainian citizens, let's meet peacefully under the Supreme Council today at 6 p.m. to condemn this mess.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u22	We ask you to stop the act now, stop the act. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to talk to everyone who's coming out of the high hall. We ask the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, first of all to respect Ukrainian laws, not to call for aggressive and violent actions that we have seen here for two months, and please respect Ukrainian laws. And all those who are being challenged by Ukraine's power structures need to go to them, not run away from Ukrainian power structures. Mrs. Oksana Siroid, a distinguished colleague, is invited to attend. Please, Mrs. Oksana. I ask you to respect the Ukrainian laws. I am very much asking you to respect Ukrainian laws, not to call on you to destroy our power structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u23	Honorable colleagues of the national MPs, distinguished people of Ukraine. I want to talk to you about what happened in these walls last night. It's a very dangerous and presumptuous event. Yesterday, the Attorney General of Ukraine threatened the Ukrainian Nationals and tried to humiliate him, humiliate his dignity and reputation. In his speech, the Attorney General of Ukraine violated virtually all the principles of the judiciary and all the principles of the prosecution. The Attorney General despised human dignity, and the Attorney General despised objectivity, impartiality. The Attorney General doesn't even know what political neutrality is. Unfortunately, the Attorney General does not understand what a professional ethics is that is important to his institution. The Attorney General has also violated the duties that he must comply with article 19 of the Procuratorial Act. Regrettably, the Attorney General demonstrated his full professional incompetence, but not only in his incompetence. Unfortunately, the Attorney General has despised and despised not one MP, not the deputy of Oleg Bérezück, he has despised each and every one of you because he has despised the Parliament, which he has spoken in the walls, and he has despised the President. Unfortunately, if we were strong, if the institutions of the President and the Parliament were worthy of the people who chose us, we would be voting for the Attorney General's resignation today. For the most fearsome thing is today and why the Attorney-General so permits himself to speak is that he is aware of his complete impunity and that impunity is also associated with his destruction of anti-corruption organs. I also want to say that what the Attorney General did yesterday, his actions, is actually an abuse of official authority, which is an attempt to commit a crime consistent with at least two articles of criminal conduct, the Criminal Code, I apologize. But who should be approached if the crimes in the walls of Parliament are committed by the Attorney General himself. Sadly, if a person does not have the authority to seek justice, he asks the Creator to change his authority. I want to remind you of the events of four years ago, and I want to remind you that then Minister Zharchenko became a symbol of the will of the Yanukovich regime. Unfortunately, today, Yuri Lucenko is a symbol of the fallout of the Dusty regime. So there's only one way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u24	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u25	The President is to immediately remove Yuri Lucenk from the duties of the Attorney General and appeal to Parliament to submit his resignation. It is also necessary to immediately open criminal conduct and investigate the crime committed by the Attorney General in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, if that does not happen, unfortunately you are all doomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u26	Colleagues, I now give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Irina Heratchenko. And I want to inform you that there are two motions for recess, but both applications are ready to be replaced. So after Mrs. Irina's speech, I'll give my word to the factions. Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, on behalf of each and every one of us, let us thank the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the military men and the military women who today are worthy of protecting the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine, as well as the security of European space. Let me apologize to the Ukrainian Armed Forces for not all the Ukrainian national MPs who are worthy of our army, for the fact that in these days, when actually aggression continues in eastern Ukraine and we see an increase in the number of shootings in all directions, such unworthy actions take place in both the Ukrainian Parliament and outside the Ukrainian Parliament. And some who jump in camouflage allow themselves to wear uniforms, feasts for Ukrainian soldiers and officers, and plunder them. These people are now committing a crime and have to answer under Ukrainian law, they have to be held accountable under Ukrainian law for putting checkers in the Ukrainian Parliament and putting at risk not only their fellow MPs, but also journalists, but simply visitors to parliament, democratic Ukrainian. And it's very strange that a very democratic faction casts out the wrong MPs for the vote, and those who shag their children in the presence of Ukrainian children consider their best representatives. You will discuss them with them, please, and then you will give counsel to the Attorney General on what to do. Also, I think we're all waiting for this faction to pay off the property they broke up here, receiving the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But I want to go back to another. The heroic Armed Forces of Ukraine released two villages in the Minsk Treaty a week ago, which were in the Syrian zone – Travneve and Gladosov. And we welcome the Armed Forces of Ukraine, which today bring peace to Ukrainian villages. Orcs the same day our Armed Forces liberated these villages, cut off the gas lines, and cut the power there. And today all of our civilian services are doing proper repairs. I think you'll all support me in the next, honourable colleagues, the people of these two villages didn't get three years' pensions and payments because they were in the Syrian zone, and according to the government's decree, they just couldn't pay them. We are speaking on behalf of all the people's deputies now to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is holding its meeting today, asking for immediate inclusion in the list of the population sites that are already under the control of the Ukrainian authorities, the two settlements of Travneve and Gladosov. And it immediately restores the payment of pensions, social benefits, and to New Year's and Christmas holidays all Ukrainian citizens could feel, including the concern of the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian Parliament. Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine! And we wish you dears, more victories, and we will stand next to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u28	Thank you. So, the first request from the Self-Help and Fatherland factions, they're willing to replace it with a tribune. Who will speak from the rostrum? Yegor Sobolev. And then on application from Peter Dustenk and the People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u29	I missed my day at the Supreme Council yesterday, I was in Mariupola, where we accused the arrests of the volunteers who protected our state in 2014, who came out with a peaceful request to parliament and the President to enact the important anti-corruption laws that were seized in Kiev by the special task forces of the Donetsk Region, who were taken to Mariupol and sent to the SS. As a result of an appeal of lawyers, one of the judges was allowed to go under house arrest, and this is the second commander of the Donbas battalion, Anatoly Vynorodski ("Gal"), and the judge decided that he had a life in Mariupola. Although Gal has been a cyakian in many generations, and in this way he must now remain in this city, which he and his battalion have been defending in Shirocín for a year. Two other volunteers: Leonidas Litwinenko of the UN Battalion (calling "Beck") and Alexander Novikov of the Donbas Battalion (calling "Hammer") left the judges behind without any evidence, without any procedural reasons. I want to tell everyone who is today greeting the Armed Forces of Ukraine, to everyone who is in this room, to everyone who is watching us, after Beka's crying wife Laura heard that her husband should still be at the Mariupal S.I.A. She didn't want to let him go, she grabbed his hand through the camera and kept it for half an hour. Leonid himself convinced her to let go of her hand, and she, wiggling along with her 14-year-old son, walked out of court, and a group of teenage special forces standing in court on every floor saw her, and, you know, said one of the people in the suitcase, in the form of Ukrainian police. He told the wife of the arrested volunteer "Glory of Ukraine" so violently, and others laughed. And that's the answer to the question that we have to answer here in Parliament. Right, you say our Armed Forces are protecting our independence there, but you're here under their protection robbing the entire country and covering up real booths that are just waiting to deal with all those who fought for this country, including Yuri Breza, including Andri Teteruk, with Dmitr Jaroz, with Andri Bielecki. The question is, who gets the turn? We have to stop them, we have to liberate our country both from top-corruption and from actual invaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u30	The next statement we have from the Peter Prashenko and the People's Front factions is also ready to replace it. Two factions of Andrew Teteruk are invited to the presentation. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u31	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! From the People's Front, I welcome the men and women who are doing the task of protecting our country with the Ukrainian Armed Forces Day. The Armed Forces are pride, the main guarantor of the security of our nation. We will work on strengthening our Armed Forces, promoting the prestige of the military profession. Now for the political party's statement "The People's Front." We are not surprised that Michael Saakashvili is officially suspected of criminal cooperation with Sergey Kurchenk, a banker of the Yanukovic family, who is now hiding in Russia and actively collapsing with the FSB in occupied areas. The materials published by the U.S. Attorney General’s Office have become just a bar to the picture of Saakashvili’s destructive activities. In 2015, Saakashvili, instead of joining the reform process, launched a personal political campaign in Ukraine that was applied to demagogies and lies. He failed his job as head of the Odessa District State Administration, organized the grasswork of the Odessa Portal Plant, effectively breaking down the competition from privatizing this large enterprise. In 2015-16, Michael Saakashvili took an active part in discrediting the coalition government of Arsenius Yatsenyuk, and later personally admitted that he was used in a foreign dirty political game. Undoubtedly, the Kremlin was the main instigator of this artificial political crisis, and the pro-Moscow oligarchs in Ukraine only financed the campaign. The proof of this is, for example, the statement of the fugitive oligarha Oneshchenka. The enemy wanted to bring about the temporary parliamentary and, above all, the presidential elections due to the resignation of Prime Minister Yatsenuk and the collapse of the coalition, the end goal of the reform stop, the Euro-Atlantic integration of Ukraine, the cessation of military funding and the infrastructure collapse. This Kremlin plan, with minor tactical changes, is still being implemented in parallel with open arms aggression. Regrettably, Moscow’s travelers have been some Ukrainian politicians who are thoughtlessly pursuing their selfish interests. Saakashvili and his textbooks continued their destructive assignments in 2015. Regular calls for mass unrest and insubordination, a cynical and illegal break-in of the border, zero attention to Russia's war against Ukraine, calls for the closure of Nazgardia, these and other facts testify to Saakashvili's consistent desire to delegitate the entire Ukrainian state, create an atmosphere of chaos and despair. We stress that even if Saakashvili were to pursue only personal political goals, his activity is objectively advantageous to the Kremlin and supervillainous to Ukraine. So we took the information of the Attorney General's Office very seriously, and we demand that it be evaluated as soon as possible. The People's Front political party is urging Michael Saakashvili to pass the foresight.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u32	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u33	go through the procedures provided for by law and answer questions from investigators and judges. Ukraine’s Attorney General and the Ukrainian Security Service provide prompt, unbiased criminal conduct regarding Michael Saakashvili with a hundred percent respect for his procedural rights, sincere Saakashvili fans do not resort to violence or interfere with legal procedural action, thus delaying the identification of the truth and opposing the Ukrainian State.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u34	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u35	Ukrainian citizens, the world society, do not give in to richly financed demagogies and populism, which are not usually followed by Russian propaganda in Ukraine alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u36	Thank you. So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion, all the factions, and now I'm asking all the national deputies to return to the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that there will be a vote now and ask the factions to invite all the deputies to the Chamber. Please, we'll meet you in the hall. Also, colleagues, I would like to say that, as you know, tomorrow's planned review of the issues of the State Budget for 2018, and we have a chance to consider and adopt the December 7 budget, in violation of the multiannual tradition of accepting it on New Year's Eve at 5 a.m. To that end, we will need to organize ourselves as much as possible both in the work of committees and in the work of the apparatus. I therefore entrust the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy today to review the Committee as quickly as possible and to prepare, in the second reading, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Balance of Budget Revenues in 2018 (6776) and also commission the Committee on Budgetary Questions to consider today on the Committee and to prepare for consideration in the second reading a draft Act amending the Ukraine Budget Code (7116) and a draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2018. I am convinced that if we work together, if we work effectively, tomorrow we will be able to adopt the State budget of Ukraine, and that will be a great sign of stability in our country, because the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a hub of stability. So, colleagues, we're moving on to the agenda. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, and I, by our tradition, colleagues, am going to put a rating vote before the question, although I know that all the factions support these bills, but nevertheless I'm going to take advantage of my right and vote. I ask everyone to come into the hall and take part in the vote. The first is the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on additional guarantees for the social protection of children with disabilities. Colleagues, additional protection of children with disabilities (2912). And I ask you to participate in the rating vote so that we can see the level of support for this bill. Please, colleagues, take your seats and please take part in the vote. All the factions have seen and know these bills. There's obviously a faction solution, and now we're going to see what level of mobilization is in the hall. So I ask you to participate in the rating vote to support the draft Act on additional guarantees for the social protection of children with disabilities. Please take part in the rating vote and please vote. Colleagues, be careful and disciplined. Please support, please vote and vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Social protection of children with disabilities. [[11:01:23]] For 197 As I predicted, there is a high level of support. Show the factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 65, People's Front – 50, Opposition Block, Self-Help, Radical Party, Fatherland, People's Will, Rebirth – all factions support. I propose that we engage in discussions and heads of factions to mobilize deputies so that we can make a positive decision. So we're starting a review of draft Law 2912. And I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it with a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, for a reduced procedure. Vote. [[11:02:12]] For-166 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, has assumed the responsibility of providing social protection for children with disabilities. Yes, on April 21, 15th, the Supreme Council passed the Act on Amendments to Article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on Mobilization Training and Mobilization on the Strengthening of the Protection of the Rights of Children with Disabilities. The above-mentioned law stipulated that the recruitment of military service during mobilization would not be subject to military-bound women and men, who were held by a disabled child of subgroup "A" under 18 years of age. When the law was passed and signed by the President of Ukraine, I was approached by self-help deputies, pointing out that some of the children with problems, with limited possibilities, were seriously deprived of support and protection by the same law. Therefore, with a view to resolving the above-mentioned issue, your consideration is proposed by the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on additional guarantees for the social protection of children with disabilities. This bill proposes the creation of additional guarantees for the social protection of underage children with disabilities, who have all kinds of Class II-IV impairments and restrictions on the vitality of any category I-IV. Appropriate guarantees will be given to parents, women and men, such children the right to stay away from military service when they are mobilized or able, if they wish, to carry out military service at their place of residence. To be released from military service for those currently called for mobilization in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations. It's also a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u38	Please. One minute, please pass to Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u39	The bill suggests that not only men but also women who are bound by the military, who have three or more children under the age of 18, have the right to stay away from the recruitment appeal. Thus, the adoption of this bill will help improve the process of mobilizing and carrying out military service in terms of protecting the interests of minors with disabilities. In view of the above, taking into account also the interests of national security and defence, please adopt the Ukrainian Law 9212, Bill 9212, as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the proposals made by the Professional Committee which.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u40	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u41	which, in turn, are based on the proposals of the Ministry of Defence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u42	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the National Affairs Committee. National Security and Defence Committee representative Vinnik Ivan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u43	Good morning, dear colleagues. Good morning, people of Ukraine. First of all, I would like to welcome everyone and everyone with a holiday, the Armed Forces Day of Ukraine. This is a very important event for Ukraine during a special period. It is the Armed Forces of Ukraine that, unfortunately, the rule of law is compromised to some extent in the world, realize a position of power that allows us to win the victories of Ukrainian diplomacy that allow us to reform inside the country. who allow us to live today, to have a peaceful sky above our heads. I want many victories, I want life and a lot of health for all the military, Ukrainian soldiers, and the victory of our nation. A bill that deals with matters of security and defence is likely to be considered figuratively today. I thank the presidency and the speaker of the Supreme Council for putting it in order of the day. The bill is extremely simple and is based on humanitarian issues, for which Ukraine is also responsible for its Constitution and international obligations. We have about 157 thousand children with disabilities officially registered, 5,000 parents who support them today fall under the principle of mobility for a special period, or they are serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. This bill allows you to free yourself from mobilization and allows you to stop serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine as you wish, I emphasize, at the wishes of your parents, if they consider it necessary and consider it possible not to go through the service, but to take care of exclusively disabled children. In the course of the discussion of the bill at a committee meeting, representatives of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, in general supporting the legislative initiative, proposed to limit the categories of persons subject to such forms of liberation, to violations of the functions of Category III-IV, to restrictions on the vitality of stage II-III of their expression. This proposal was supported by the members of the committee present. In this regard, the Committee recommends the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u44	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u45	The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of the first reading of the bill, that it be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law with regard to technical and editorial rights, including by replacing the figures "2.4" with "3". 4" and "1.4" are replaced by "2.3". Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u46	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm going to run the record now: two in, two in, against. But I remind the faction heads to invite deputies into the hall so that we can have mobilization during the decision-making process. So two in, two in, two in. Please hold the recording. From Self-Help, Lavrick Oleg Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u47	Give the word to Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u48	He's handing over Semensi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u49	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! The protection of the rights and interests of children in our country has traditionally been a painful problem, and with the beginning of Russian aggression and war, this problem has become even more painful for us to have new children of war, children of orphans who have lost parents on the front, refugee children. But the most vulnerable category remains children with disabilities who need our help with you adults. In previous years this Supreme Council has adopted a series of legislative acts aimed at strengthening the protection of children’s rights during the mobilization and mobilization of military-related and military-related children. In particular, three or more children are not currently eligible for military service during the mobilization of war-bound men with three or more children, single mothers, who are not subject to the recruitment of adoptive parents, caregivers, caregivers, caregivers, and children deprived of parental care, who are obliged to be held by children with a solely high degree of health loss and full dependence on permanent foreign care. At the same time, it is clear that such changes are not enough. According to statistics today, the number of children with disabilities in Ukraine reached 167 thousand, or about two percent of the total number of children in Ukraine. As international country practice has shown, in order for children with disabilities at an early age to develop their natural abilities as much as possible and in the future at the right time and the most fully integrated into society, they must be brought up in a full family. Therefore, our bill proposes to introduce additional guarantees of social protection for disabled minors by granting parents of such children the right to stay away from military service during mobilization and to be released from military service. The bill significantly minimizes the possibility of such persons participating in hostilities directly in the territory of an anti-terrorist operation. Dear colleagues, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u50	Thank you. Please, from the People's Front, the Hungarian People's Deputy. They'll come out of the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u51	Dear fellows, Praise Jesus Christ! We're really looking at an important bill and we've already symbolically pointed out to colleagues that on this very day of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, we have to definitely add to the package of social guarantees, social support to the most incapacitated population groups, to Ukrainians, to children who have certain physical capabilities to provide them with parental care even in such difficult times that they provide for the mobilization of training and other forms of population organization during military aggression. I think we are all aware of the fact that many children have suffered as a result of the war that was fought on the soda of Ukraine and how many children have been left with injuries, with diseases, and we need to support them as well. I would like to thank the drafter of the Irina Stepanovna Lucenko bill, particularly for the next two bills that we will consider in the second reading. These are bills aimed at combating domestic violence. As noted earlier, it is the family that the family values inherent in a Christian country such as Ukraine that guarantee a successful state, a successful functioning of society. The All-Ukrainian Council of Churches and Religious Organizations sent letters of support for these bills in the formulation that we voted in the first reading, and I am glad that the committees of profile supported them. So we support the children, we support the Ukrainian families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u52	Thank you. Please, from the Opposition Block. Yuri Pavlovenko. Please, Mr. Yuri. Please, Yuri Pavlovenko, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u53	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The opposition bloc supports the bill and considers it extremely relevant. Moreover, the Opposition Block believes that the protection of children's rights, the protection of children's rights, should be one of the main priorities of public policy, especially in today's very difficult conditions for our country's development. At the same time, we want to turn to certain dangerous actions by the State that are being carried out today in relation to the child. A project called deinstitutionalization is being actively distributed and implemented, which provides for the liquidation of internal institutions and the introduction of inclusive education. The opposition block, and I personally, we support both deinstitutionalization and inclusive education, and they must be done with maximum consideration of the child's interests. Instead, we see very serious disruptions on the ground and very serious violations of the rights of the child during the implementation of these initiatives, which are actively supported, including by the President of Ukraine and the wife of the President of Ukraine. As an example, I would like to mention the situation in the Gitomir region when, in terms of three internal institutions for children with special mental characteristics, for children with impaired eyesight, for children with hearing abilities, very dangerous actions have begun. Pushing kids around schools in silence without providing or preparing schools or teachers or children themselves, both healthy and those who are being transferred to life and education in the collective. That's why I'm addressing the problem of deinstitutionalization, putting the interests of a particular child first, not the desire to like it, or the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u54	Thank you. Please, from the Peter Dust Block, Ivan Sporish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u55	Mr. Sporish, one second. Colleagues, this is a closing statement, and in two minutes there will be a vote, so I ask everyone to come into the hall and take jobs, and I urge everyone to enter the hall and the heads of the factions and invite the deputies into the hall. Please, Ivan Dmitrovitch, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u56	Ivan Sporish, Petra Dustenka Block, 15th Wynnickin County. The honourable national deputies, the honorable presidency, are quite relevant today to Bill 2912 and, thank God, it is supported by all factions and quite pleasant. Because, really, we see here additional guarantees for children with disabilities with all kinds of organ dysfunction. We know that there are 150,000 and more children with disabilities in Ukraine, but the main thing is that today there are about 5,000 parents who are under military obligation, and yet here the right is given, as we can see, to serve at the place of residence, as well as to stay away from the appeal. So I think that we should all support the bill, and I would very much like it to really be accepted as a foundation and as a whole, and united the entire hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u57	Thank you. This concludes the discussion. I'm asking everyone to take their seats and come into the hall. Colleagues, everyone, please take up their jobs. I'm going to base the proposal first, and then if there's a position in the hall, I'm going to put it in general. Yes, Mrs. Irina? That's the committee's decision. Right away, huh? Is everyone supporting the whole thing right now? Everyone backs up, all right, colleagues. Then let's not go back to the vote, please take the job. I'm asking my colleagues convincingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u58	Mrs. Natala Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u59	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u60	Mrs. Natala, you are addressed to the Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u61	No, no, I asked the deputies to return to their seats. So I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on additional guarantees for the social protection of children with disabilities (number 2912). The Committee's proposal: on the basis and in general. Please vote, please support me, colleagues, every vote has weight, so please vote carefully and please take part in the vote. Vote, fellows! Please stand by, we vote! Please support everyone. [[11:19:14]] For 239. 239 — yes. The law is passed. Colleagues, let's move on to the next law, and I'll run the ratings. Please be prepared. Before 4952, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (4952), I place a rating vote on its support. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote, rating vote, in support, please vote. [[11:19:58]] For 211 Colleagues, I understand correctly, all factions. Please, by the factions. Everybody backs up, right? Let's go, let's go. Excuse me, is there going to be a statement about which factions? The Radical Party, the People's Front has already taken over. I've already taken self-help. Oleg Valeriyovich, find a break partner, and Self-Help has already exercised its right and Front has already exercised his right to lunch, Oleg Valeriyovich. From "the will of the people." The Radical Party and "The Will of the People" are from two factions of the break that they're willing to replace for the performance, and they're invited to join us for three minutes. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u62	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues and distinguished Mr. Head! Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, I ask your attention, the decision of the Supreme Council in May has suspended the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Andria Artemenko in connection with his loss of citizenship. Artemenko, who you remember was trading Crimea with a Russian agency in Washington, D.C., trying to move this plan forward. We shut Artemenko out of the faction. The president decided to deprive him of his Ukrainian citizenship in connection with his Canadian citizenship. The Supreme Council, on the basis of the Constitution of Ukraine, terminated the term of office of the National MP Artemenko in connection with the loss of Ukrainian citizenship. Artemenko appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court, where he challenged the President's decision and the decision of the Supreme Council to cease citizenship and terminate parliamentary powers. By a decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, in particular under the title of Artemenko to the Supreme Council, this decision has been rejected since 20 November by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its decision to terminate the parliamentary powers of Artemenko. This decision is in accordance with the Code of Administration, if not filed within 10 days, it becomes effective. This decision was not contested. So on November 30, the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court to terminate the powers of the Artemenko came into effect. The Central Election Commission would register a new Ukrainian national deputy, next in the list of the Radical Party Valery Zarzko, to have three children, a refugee from Donetsk. But the Central Election Commission, which is managed by the President's Administration by hand, although there is a valid decision by the Supreme Administrative, has not yet held a meeting of the CWC and has not registered, has failed to recognize the elected new National Deputy of Ukraine. What do they explain? The CEC sent a letter to the Supreme Administrative Court to confirm that the decision had taken effect. What did the Supreme Administrative Court do? Instead of giving confirmation to the CEVC that the decision had taken effect, the Supreme Court asked the Supreme Court to confirm that Artemenko had not challenged the ruling of the Administration. Nonsense! So it's even a complaint, if it were, it would be filed through the Supreme Administrative Court. That is, the Supreme Administration and the Office of the President of the CEC will intentionally block the decision to elect a new Ukrainian national deputy. I appeal to the Acting Headship of the Supreme Administrator, Mr. Mikhail, to immediately submit all the necessary documents to the Central Electoral Commission and give the man.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u63	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u64	and allow the CEC to make an immediate decision and register a new Ukrainian national deputy, Valeria Zarushko. I am addressing the Head of Parliament: give the Apparatus an immediate mandate to contact the CIA, solve all the technical, artificial problems created by the President's Administration, and allow the new Ukrainian National Deputy from the Radical Party to join the Supreme Council instead of blackmailing us, creating artificial obstacles.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u65	Thank you. So, colleagues, we are going to consider a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws in connection with the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence and the Fight against These Emergencies (No. 4952). Please, Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u66	I made a public request to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u67	Please, Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u68	[[From the Hall]] We blocked the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u69	Report from the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry to have to come out of this place, but I'd like to introduce you to a very important law -- a law that has been developed with the participation of our colleagues, which represents an interfractional merger of Equal Opportunities, is a law that has brought together virtually all factions, and it's a law that goes to the fulfilment of those norms and obligations that emerge from the Istanbul Convention. You remember that we did not agree to ratify this convention, but all the content, all the positive features that were involved in this convention, which were related to the prevention of domestic violence, were incorporated into the two bills that are proposed for your consideration. That bill, which I have the honour of presenting for second reading, provides for the possibility of applying those measures that would allow us to make certain influences and sanctions on violators. This bill, you and I adopted it on the first reading, there were 87 amendments that the committee considered by forming a working group that included the drafters of the bill, and experts, experts who processed the bill for the second reading, accounted for a total of 23 amendments, accounted for partially or editorially 7 amendments and rejected 57 amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to suggest that you support the committee's decision, because we've worked, we've met a working group several times, we've checked the table comparatively, and for the moment we're ready, and I'm asking you to support the committee's drafting of this bill for a second reading. Therefore, honourable colleagues, if anyone insists on considering amendments, that is the right to do so. But considering that the presence of the national MPs in this room doesn't always allow us to just physically gather the votes, I wouldn't be artificially delaying this process. What's more, after the break, we're going to have a custody speech. Thank you for your attention, and I am ready to respond and comment on those adjustments if anyone insists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u71	Thank you. Colleagues, report. He has just commissioned the Supreme Council apparatus to solve the problem posed by the head of the Radical Party, Oleg Lášk, and in the near future, the apparatus will make every effort to bring the matter to trial. Thank you. Have a seat. My colleagues, I have a question for you. Are we going to follow the amendments, or am I going to ask a few authors of the amendments, who insists? What do you say, colleagues? Let's do it this way. Who insists? Let's do that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, it's gonna be a long time. Let's go in such a way that I don't call all the corrections. Let's do it this way. Who insists on correction? Alexeyev. Please call the amendment and talk to the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u72	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. We just talked to the reporter about the proposed draft for second reading. We support this paper, but I would like to point out that since the bill was considered in the second reading and there was a table for the second reading, there have been changes to legislation. Other legislative acts and individual provisions of this bill no longer comply with existing legislation. I'd like to make two warnings about drafting the bill for the second reading right now. And then I ask the reporter to comment on them. And if there is the will of the hall, we will also support these warnings. With regard to the proposed editing of part four of article 91 prime. The Criminal Code of Ukraine is mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u73	Colleagues, please don't break up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u74	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u75	This part mentions criminal-executive inspections. There are currently no criminal inspections, there are probation authorities. So in this part, I would like the law, the bill, to say that they're carrying out authorized probational organs. This is the first position. And a second warning. From the proposed edition of part one, part one, paragraph 5, as well as article 91 prime. 1 Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u76	Finish up, please. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u77	There is a proposal from the proposed editorial to delete the words: or the probative program, because this is a situation that is contrary to the Pro probation Act, is mentioned in the editorial paper on the work programmes with the perpetrators, and this is enough to carry out the tasks that these legislative changes provide for. So this section suggests removing the word "or probing programs" from the text of the bill. In general, we support these legislative changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u78	Please, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, that is to say, the very right comments and comments that are now offered by colleague Alekseus. As far as the inspection is concerned, I think we should support it. As for the probative programs that are proposed to be removed, I am not ready to comment now in this mode. So if you and I are actually going to replace the inspection with the probative organs, I think it's logical and correct. As far as removing the probation programs is concerned, I don't think we should be making decisions emotionally right now. So I think it's my colleague Alexeyev, and you're going to support an editorial that comes from replacing the name of the inspection with the probative organs. And as for the probation programs themselves, I would have left them for now. At worst, this norm is not just going to work. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u80	Finish, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u81	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! If all the authors of the amendments, particularly those that have been rejected, have responded to our request by examining the committee's arguments not to endorse them, given what has been said now, I would ask for the support of the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u83	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to, Your Honor, Mrs Fedorovich! Deputy Minister Fedorovich, the representatives of the People's Front have just been speaking, who have quite rightly observed that the standards of the bill that we are currently considering are already in conflict with the new legislation that has come into force. And they offered positions that needed to be removed from this bill. A representative of the committee said he did not object. Your position on this?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u84	I want to inform you about the amendments. If we don't narrow it down now, we may not have a vote. Why do I ask, is there anyone else who insists on repairs? Can I go to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u85	I am very much asking that government representatives listen to the discussion. Dear Mr. Alexeyev, please repeat your remark. I'm asking Mrs Fedorovich to listen to the remark right now, it's really important. Please listen to each other, this is a discussion of the bill, not private communication. Please, Alexey's microphone again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u86	The comment referred to the wording of part four of article 91. 1 The Criminal Code of Ukraine It is mentioned here that control over the conduct of the convicts is carried out by a criminal-executive inspection. At present, criminal inspections no longer exist, there are probation authorities, so this part of the bill needs to be adjusted in principle so that this rule is not dead and cannot be effectively applied.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u87	Please tell me, if I put to the vote with the amendment that Deputy Alexeyev made and with the technical legal rights, would that be correct? Will it be all right, colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u88	That's absolutely correct. Colleagues regarding inspection, there's no dialogue here, because, in fact, we've replaced this inspection by the probation authorities. The legislation has changed, and according to the table we have made this change. As far as probing programs are concerned, we are not ready to make any changes to the text right now. So in the part of the inspection with this correction and the rest left as approved by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u89	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're going to the vote in two minutes. I ask the government representative to state his position on the matter. And I'm asking all the national MPs to come into the hall. And I ask the factions to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Fedorovich, please, microphone. Turn on Fedorovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u90	We support the position expressed by the distinguished national MP, Mr. Miroshnichenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u91	So the proposal is going to be with Alexeyev's amendment, which he sounded under the transcript, and with technical law. That's right, isn't it? So, colleagues, I'm asking you not to leave the hall. Fellows, return to the hall. Everyone, please come into the hall and take your seats. So I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. And, colleagues, I ask you to invite all the deputies into the hall. I ask the heads of factions to mobilize the national MPs. All factions support. It's important that there's mobilization in the hall. I ask you to prepare for the vote. And, colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence and the Fight against These phenomena (No. 4952) with the amendment that was made under the transcript by the People's Deputy Alexeyev and with technical law. Please support in the second reading and in general. Careful, colleagues, every voice. Please vote and please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. [[11:39:07]] For 241 241 – yes. The law is passed. Colleagues, I'd like to consult with you now. Mr. Yuri, thank you. I want to consult you, the next bill has 427 rights, of which 70 are rejected. Can we start his consideration now and finish it on Thursday?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u92	Because we're not gonna make it today. I'd like to ask a representative of the committee. Is it accepted?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u93	Mrs. Irina, do you copy? Then we're going to start the next bill, and we're going to do the most, but the vote is actually going to be on Thursday, because at 12:30, we're hearing the head of the Security Service. Is there a general understanding of the hall? Yeah? There's general support. We are moving on to the draft Law on Prevention and Opposition to Domestic Violence. And I invite you to the report of the first deputy head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sport of Veliczkowicz Mikol Romanović. Mikola Romanovich, please. And ask the right-wing authors to get ready for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u94	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues. The committee was very careful in preparing the bill for the second reading. A working group was set up to include the national deputies of Ukraine, representatives of central executive bodies, judges, lawyers, and representatives of religious, social, and international organizations. The vast majority of issues have been agreed upon. The bill is supported by both the All - Ukrainian Council of Churches and public organizations. I want to stop at the fundamental changes that have taken place in preparation for the second reading. First of all, the bill defines all citizens as subjects in the field of prevention and resistance to domestic violence. We realize that without the participation of citizens, the state is unable to overcome this negative phenomenon on its own. Citizens who have become aware of domestic violence should report them to local authorities or units of the National Police, as well as to a colloquial centre on prevention and resistance to domestic violence, violence on the basis of articles and violence against children. The Coll Centre, in turn, should immediately report cases of violence to police departments, child affairs services for immediate response. The new law will entrust educational institutions with the provision of information and education for children and students on prevention and resistance to domestic violence, including children. While paying particular attention to the need for an urgent message to teachers or a call center about cases of domestic violence that have become known to them. Colleagues, we were all kids, and it was better for adults to know what was going on with our peers. So if the kid knows that his classmate is being hit at home and he's afraid to say it out loud, he has to call the call center and anonymously report it. This is to be taught by the school, the church, and the media. This will help save dozens of children’s lives. Now I want to stop at the question of creating a single national register of domestic violence and gender-based violence. The primary purpose of the register is to warn of repeated cases of violence and to protect the vital interests of the victims, to provide them with comprehensive and timely assistance. The most important thing is to ensure that the Ministry controls timely response and reports of violent incidents. At the same time, the Human Rights Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and some public organizations insisted that information about the injured person should be preserved only with its consent and that a deadline should be set for its preservation. The committee agreed, and in the text of the bill, information about both the injured person and the person who reported the act of violence is stored only with the consent of the person. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u95	Give me a moment, please, a thorough bill, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u96	There is also a time limit for storing information about both these persons if their consent is available and about the offender. At the same time, if the offender is acquitted or the information about violence is wronged, his personal details are immediately removed from the register. The Chief Legal Authority has provided significant assistance in the drafting of article 16 of the Single Register Bill and fully supports the proposed revision. 427 amendments were made, 271 were taken into account, 95 were partially amended and 61 were rejected. The committee proposes to adopt a second-reading bill and, in general, ready to discuss the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u97	Thank you, Your Honor! We're starting to move on the reverse. Amendment number 2. National MP Condratiuk, Ionov, Heroshenko. As co-author of this amendment, I insist, along with my fellow students, that I insist on voting for this amendment. Dear colleagues, how does it sound? We suggest that the following be introduced in the preamble to this law. This law defines organizational and legal principles for preventing and resisting domestic violence, which is usually a manifestation of gender-based violence with regard to the participation of women and men in all spheres of social life. What happened during the committee’s consideration of the bill? Our committee has come to the point where it's everywhere where there's even a "gender stereotyping" term, it's thrown it out of the text of the law. Although, what's to be ashamed of is that phrase that's even in the textbooks of the 4th grade of Ukrainian high school. Because gender issues are actually just sex, and gender stereotypes, they exist in society. If the Ukrainian National Deputies don't know it, I want to say that in this way this bill contradicts the Istanbul Convention that we're going to ratify, and it's totally not responding to the Istanbul Convention, and it's considered to be ratification and to be subject to the Istanbul Convention. So we're relaxing some key positions and we're going into the "maracobes," so if you'll excuse us for saying that we're not voting something here when we're voting with you on draft laws on the Labour Code of Amendments to be a visa-free regime. And my colleagues and I insist that without the phrase "gender stereotypes," this law does not correspond to the Istanbul Convention, we ask to vote on the second amendment in this form. Please vote. The committee would like to comment. And why are you so shy about throwing out all the phrases that kids in high school can put into textbooks and MPs are afraid to explain, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. The committee did indeed have a number of rights, where it was about the introduction of "gender" in the text. But we came out of what was the decision of the session hall, where by a majority of the hall, more than 226 votes, were voted to remove those terms from the text. I think we can put it to a vote now, and if supported, it will be returned to the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, we're putting to the vote amendment number two, which I've sounded. Please vote, the authors ask to vote in favour, the committee is ashamed of the word "gender stereotypes." [[11:47:20]] For-97 Let's move on. Amendment number 4. Svetlana's valve, do you insist? Please, Mrs. Svetlani's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, Amendment No. 4 proposes to be preserved in the first or seventh paragraph of the bill by the term “genderly motivated violence”. I want to say, as a member of the Foreign Committee, that we had consultations, first, with our Foreign Ministry, and with international experts. And I want to inform all the national MPs that if this law is passed without considering gender-based violence, as well as other aspects of this law, where we rule out the word "gender," it will go against the Istanbul Convention. And the Council of Europe will not then consider that the ratification that we are voting here will be in line with our international commitments to the Council of Europe. What's more, I want to point out that the term gender is repeatedly enshrined in Ukrainian legislation, there are dozens of laws where this term already exists. So I'm asking you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u101	Please, the committee wishes to clarify its position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u102	Mrs. Svetlana, I've already said that when I was just talking about amendment number two, it was that the committee had to count with the decision of the session room. And we will support this amendment, if the House votes, it will be returned to the body of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u103	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, please support Amendment Four, Svetlana Zalitchuk, she is absolutely right here that our international partners insist that those positions that are enshrined in Ukrainian legislation should also be in the laws that go under the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. Please be supportive. [[11:49:26]] For 111 111. Let's move on. Unfortunately, Mrs. Svetlana, you did not receive the necessary number of votes. Moving on, Amendment 40, Semimenach, you insist, don't I see? Don't insist. Amendment 47, Ungurian, please insist, Unguryan? Don't insist. Are you insisting? Because we didn't hear. Please, Semenha insists on 40, turn on his microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u104	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! Dear reporter. My right suggests extending the legislation on prevention and resistance to domestic violence, and thus guaranteeing protection against domestic violence. Those who do work in the household or in the family. This proposal is in line with the position of the OSCE, as well as the recommendations contained in the UN handbook on the development of legislation on violence against women. The concept relies on Member States to take measures to ensure that domestic workers enjoy effective protection against all forms of abuse, harassment and violence. Therefore, colleagues, I would like to support the bill that proposes to extend the proposed bill to also domestic workers, who also need to be protected by the law of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u105	Thank you. Please. you will explain. Please, Mr. Big Guy's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u106	This amendment was rejected by the committee because part of the second article is distributed to employees who do not live and who only come to work in the household when they are living together with their host, and if they do not live and come to work, it is violence during work, perhaps by sex, but it is not domestic violence, according to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u107	Please, Your Honor, I'm asking you to make a decision regarding the amendment number 40 of the Honourable MP of Semenha, please. [[11:51:32]] For 105 It doesn't take up the necessary amount. Yes, Ungurian, 47th, does not insist. 48th, Svetlana Zlatczyk. Are you insisting, Svetlana? 48th mic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u108	Yes, dear colleagues, I insist on this amendment. I want to draw your attention to what it is. What terms do we exclude from this law I will read this article. We suggest that the guarantee to the victims be based on the disproportionate impact of domestic violence on women and men and the provision of a gender-based approach when all measures are taken to prevent and combat domestic violence. I propose to keep the terminology on gender mainstreaming, and I think the exclusion of those words is just some medieval fear of gender, which insists on the fact that it already exists in Ukrainian legislation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u109	Thank you for your clarification. Will the committee react? I propose to vote right away, because the position is clear, the text of the whole law has taken away that word very important, for which it was written, essentially. Please vote for Amendment 48. [[11:52:57]] For-103
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u110	Sadly, the amendment is not supported. The next amendment is 55, Solomon Irina. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, please support my amendment, namely, to present part three of article 4, as follows: "Proceedings in the field of prevention and resistance to domestic violence are carried out without discrimination on any basis: sex, limited physical capacity, age, race, ethnic and national origin, religious belief or belief, etc.." And bring the amended text of the bill into line with the Istanbul Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u112	Thank you. Please have the committee's reaction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u113	The amendment has been deleted due to the amendment that will be followed by 57, which states that the amendment removes all signs of discrimination because they are defined in article 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote for this amendment, 55th, which Mrs. Suslov has sounded. I want to remind you that we had a similar situation when we were looking at legislation that applied to the Labour Code, and we brought it into conformity with the Constitution, too. Please vote. [[11:54:22]] For 105 Correction not supported. Please, Zalitzak, Svetlana. Are you insisting? 56th. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u115	Respectable national MPs, as early as 2005, had actually established concepts related to the gender perspective in Ukrainian legislation, namely gender equality and gender expertise. And in 2011, the concept of "sexual orientation" was similarly entrenched in Ukrainian legislation. These terms have long entered the sphere of civilized countries, the legal realm of civilized countries, and can actually slow down our Euro-integration aspirations. So I ask you to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u116	We vote, please, the 56th Amendment of Deputy Zalitschuk. Please. [[11:55:19]] Z-85 85 votes, not supported. Next: Chizmar, 61st. Don't insist on the amendment. Let's move on. Now, colleagues, don't miss it. Ephremova, 79th Amendment, Irina Ephraim’s microphone, please turn on the 79th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I would like you to support my application, which is part of article 10, paragraph 7. Please put it in this paper. An application for annulment of permits to purchase, store, carry arms and ammunition to their owners, in the event of domestic violence, to the authority that issued the permit, as well as the removal of weapons and ammunition in a manner determined by law. The committee rejects the amendment. I ask you to put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the amendment of 79 of Irina Ephraim's esteemed colleague. [[11:56:40]] For a hundred and Unfortunately, 107 votes are not supported. Next, Amendment 89, Semimenach. Don't insist. Thank you. Let's move on. Next, Amendment 94, Semimenach. Don't insist. Then 97th, Semenha. Don't insist. Thank you. We keep moving so that we can make the most of it today. Semenha, 111. Don't insist. Yeah, Semenha doesn't insist. Everything, everything, now. Irina Lucenko, 119 amendment, 119th. Don't insist. Next up, Condratiuk, 120th. Please, Olena Condratuk. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, my application applies under 120, to the same issues that we talked about, and therefore to gender stereotypes. And it tells us that there is a need to raise awareness of the forms and manifestations of domestic violence and to foster an intolerant attitude towards the violent model of family relations, as well as to monitor the effectiveness of legislation and its application and measures in preventing and combating domestic violence and their impact on different social groups, taking into account gender stereotypes. Here we go. will continue with our amendments under number 222, another of our collegiate amendments, which refers to the definition of these same gender stereotypes. So these amendments, I think they're related, and I'm asking you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u120	Thank you. I'll bet you 120. Anyone who supports it, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please take part in the vote. Vote. [[11:58:36]] For-92 The decision is not made. 141th. Yeah, 222, yeah. We'll get to her now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u121	Precinct, 121st.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u122	121st, Zalitzak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, Ukraine, as a member of the Council of Europe, has committed itself to implementing the Council of Europe Strategy on Gender Equality, which already has the term "gender equality". The adoption of this law without any term "gender" would be absolute absurd, and would be contrary to the very logic and nature of this legislation, which is our obligation within the Council of Europe. I'm asking you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u124	Thank you. I'll bet the vote on Amendment 121. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. And I'm reporting that I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. The committee turned her down. [[11:59:34]] For-92 The decision is not made. The next one in my head is 161. Don't insist. 168th. Don't insist. 176th. Don't insist. 190th. Don't insist. 200th. Don't insist. 202. Don't insist. Irina Lucenko. 220th. Please, 220th Amendment. The consonants. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, please support my amendment number 220, and in which I propose to make a definition of discrimination on the basis of the gender mark of the following edition. Discrimination by sex is an act or omission aimed at distinguishing rights, freedoms and opportunities or granting sex privileges in a political, economic, social, cultural or any other sphere, except in cases where such a distinction has a legitimate, objectively justified goal, the means of achieving which is appropriate and necessary. Today, the text begins with the definition that gender discrimination is a situation. This is not a situation, so please correct this error and adjust the definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u126	Thank you. Amendment 220 shall be put to the vote. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[12:01:24]] For-98 The decision is not made. 222, Condratjuk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, as I said before, in principle, we're already coming to the Final Positions, where there are very specific gender stereotypes that we as a country are trying to fight, as a state, including. And we have to have every responsibility here that we have to understand that this law either overcomes these gender stereotypes that have come together, or in principle it doesn't make sense until they've been corrected, including in this law. So what we're talking about is that gender stereotypes are social stereotypes that contain a set of popular attitudes about the existing position of women and men, the standards of their behaviour and the acceptable forms of participation of women and men in all spheres of society's life, including politics, economics, law, culture, education, science, etc. So this is a common standard that I'm asking you to support very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u128	Thank you. I bet on the vote of Amendment 222. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports this vote, please. [[12:02:44]] For-90 The decision is not made. 225th. He insists. Please, 225th Suslova.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, at the last meeting of the Supreme Council and then the working group excluded such a definition as "gender," "gender-based violence" entirely from the text of the bill. I would like to stress once again that this text of the bill will not be considered a ratification, as my colleagues and Irina Heratschenko and Svetlana Zaleschuk have pointed out, without defining the definition of "gender." So I propose to support this text of my 225 amendment, which gives a very clear definition of gender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u130	I bet on the vote of amendment 225. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please. [[12:03:40]] For-90 The decision is not taken. 227 doesn't insist. Please, Svetlana Zlatchuk, 227.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! By my amendment of 227, I ask that the definition of gender be enshrined in this law, such as "socially anchored roles, behaviour, activities and characteristics that certain societies consider to be inherent to women and men." I emphasize that the deletion of this term is totally unacceptable because it explains the important reasons for gender-based violence. And throughout the civilized world, this term has long become legal. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u132	I bet on the vote of amendment 227. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports this vote, please. [[12:04:40]] For-99 The decision is not taken. 230 revisions. Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u133	Dear colleagues! As a multi-year member of the Ukrainian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I will stand by and call on the entire Ukrainian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to defend the position we defend abroad. That violence against women is very often caused by gender stereotypes, that a woman can be humiliated for her appearance, for her sex, for her age, for what she looks like, for not having that kind of dress and stuff. And without this norm on gender stereotypes, this law doesn't make any sense at all. And I want to say that if these amendments are not voted on, I will personally abstain from voting for this bill in that form, and I will offer it to all my colleagues who realize that violence against women is caused by gender stereotypes, and I will bring it back to work. We can't go into the "Parliamentary Taliban," which imposes our medieval age in order to take away in this law the phrases that are in many documents of the Council of Europe that are ratified by Ukraine and which, in fact, we have already introduced into Ukrainian legislation and into our school literature. What are some men afraid of? But let them look at themselves and see what they're afraid of. And I'm proposing with my colleagues to support Amendment 230, which actually proposes to combat gender-based violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u134	I'll bet you the vote on Amendment 230. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[12:06:37]] For 101 The decision is not taken. 231st. Consonant, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u135	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, as my colleague has just pointed out, "genderly motivated violence" is a legal term in the entire civilized world. And we have a basic text of a bill that is supposed to be the basis for the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, which has somehow been ruled out again. I'm asking you to support my amendment, which involves defining, and what is "genderly motivated violence." The text suggests: "These are unlawful acts of a physical, psychological, sexual, economic nature directed at a person through his sex, resulting in physical, property or moral harm to the person." Please support the amended text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u136	Thank you. I'm willing to vote on Amendment 231. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:07:46]] For 106 The decision is not taken. 235. He insists. It's a valve.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Together with our colleagues, we advocate the preservation of terminology for gender-based violence. And we suggest this definition that these are illegal acts directed against persons through sex or gender, or usually involving individuals of a certain sex or affecting them disproportionately and causing physical, sexual, psychological or economic harm or suffering, including threats to such acts in public or private life. Violence against women is a form of gender discrimination that covers all acts of gender-based violence against women defined by the European Council Convention on the Prevention and Control of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. It is hard to imagine that this text actually scared the national MPs. I'm asking you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u138	I'm betting on a vote of 235. I'd like to make up my mind. The committee didn't support her. [[12:09:04]] For-92 Thank you. 238. Don't insist. 243rd. Don't insist. 245th. Don't insist. 254th. Don't insist. 256th. Don't insist. 261. Don't insist. 264th. Don't insist. 270th. Don't insist. 272nd. Don't insist. 273rd. Don't insist. 283rd. Don't insist. 288. Don't insist. 293th. Don't insist. 296. Don't insist. 300th. Don't insist. 303. Don't insist. 306. Don't insist. 348th. Don't insist. 348th. He insists. And, fellows, let's make this happen, let's say maybe this is the amendment that we're going to start with. Mrs. Irina, what do you say? Maybe we'll start with this amendment on Thursday? Is it now? Let's go now. All right, let's go now. Let's go now. Talk to me. 248.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, I would like to support amendment 348, which is intended to present part three of article 212 in the next edition of "the application of any measures in the field of prevention of gender-based violence is ensured without discrimination of any kind." Here's a list of the signs. At the moment, the text of the working group has the following text: "the use of any measures in the field of prevention of violence by the mark of the article is being carried out" and beyond. So I would like to support my amendment and take into account that without knowing what gender-based violence is, what kind of violence it is, and how it happens, we will not be able to ratify the Istanbul Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u140	I'm willing to vote on Amendment 348. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:11:27]] For-84 The decision is not made. Colleagues, now we're going to figure out where we're going to start with. 349. Don't insist. Pauline insists. Please, Pauline, one minute. What kind of amendment do you call it?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u141	Honourable Head, Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine. In fact, I would like first of all to thank the committee and the working group that worked on the bill. Indeed, there was a very difficult discussion about finding compromise. And this discussion, even with the approval of this law, is not going to end. Because, unfortunately, we have not come close to ratifying the Istanbul Convention, which deals with resistance to domestic violence. At the same time, I am addressing both Irina Volodymyrna and other colleagues. Yeah, there's not a whole bunch of rules that should be in this law. I support your position. At the same time, this law that has been drafted is a serious step forward in resisting domestic violence in our country. So I'd like to ask you, when we get to the vote on Thursday, no matter what, to support it. Thank you. I take all my comments off and thank you for supporting my amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u142	Thank you. Don't you insist on voting? No, it's not. Colleagues, so I remind you, at 12:30, I invited the Attorney General and the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. So we're going to stop at 348 amendments, and we're going to continue our review Thursday at 10 a.m. Now, according to the Rules, I announce a 30-minute recess. And I ask everyone to come into the conference room at 12:40 to continue our work, and I will remind them that at 12:40 a.m., the head of the Ukrainian Security Service will be invited to speak. And we'll be able to continue our consideration of the bill by 10 a.m. Thursday morning. Thank you, colleagues. I'm waiting for everyone in the hall at 12:40.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u143	Colleagues, time taken for a break, exhausted, past half an hour. And I would like to inform you that in accordance with articles 6 and 34 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have decided to invite the Supreme Council to a plenary meeting and to listen to the heads of law enforcement. I would like to agree with you on my own formula, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service and the Attorney General of Ukraine have arrived. Yesterday we listened for two hours, that was a long time. And today, I'm going to propose this format of work to the head of the Security Service, yesterday, I haven't finished the speech by the Attorney General, two speeches, and then a separate question to the head of the Security Service and a separate question to the Attorney General. Is it taking a form that we don't have two hours to be able to do better? So 10 minutes is the head of the Security Service, 10 minutes is the Henprosecutor, a separate question to Henprosecutor and a separate question to the head of the Security Service. It's a deal. So I invite the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Vasil Sergiyovich Gritsak. And I'll be the first to invite you to the report. The first Gritzak, right? Vassil Sergiyovich Gritsak, 10 minutes, Mr. Vasile, 10 minutes, Mr. Yuri, and then a question separately to the head of the Security Service and separately to the Attorney General. Please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u144	Good day, Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs, the TV set! The 1991 Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine 1990 and the 1991 Appeal of the Supreme Council to Parliamentarians and Peoples of the World stressed that the new democratic and, above all, the rule of law, which seeks to ensure the rights and freedoms of citizens and commits itself to strict adherence to the universal principles and norms of international law, international standards in the field of human rights and freedoms. These and other early legislative acts of our nation have left no doubt as to the legal certainty of our stated goals. The Ukrainian Security Service, in accordance with the Ukrainian Security Service Act, is a law enforcement body of a special purpose. And along with other law enforcement agencies, it is called upon to ensure the rights and freedoms of citizens, as well as the rule of law. The law enforcement function of the Security Service is very broad: from traditional counter-intelligence to counter-invasion to cyber threats, countering international terrorism, protecting critical infrastructure and countering organized crime. Its sphere includes the protection of the State’s secret. At the same time, I would like to point out, honourable deputies, what the most important Security Service is wasting its time on. About 70 percent of our working hours and efforts are directed towards countering Russian hybrid aggression against Ukraine and localizing its special services. I would like to point out that even now there are over 900 security officers in the ATO area. These are the officers who do the hard work, starting with providing a counter-intelligence regime in this area, ending the fight against diversified intelligence groups and intelligence and intelligence services. Likewise, I would like to point out that the Ukrainian Security Service is doing a great, good enough combat work in the ATO zone. I would like to point out that 23 members of the Security Service have been killed since the antiterrorist operation to the east of our country, more than a hundred have been injured. The day begins with war in the east and the evening ends with war. A great deal of work is being done by our opposition to the Russian Federation’s services in general throughout Ukraine. Our experience in resisting Russian services and countering hybrid aggression is highly appreciated by the partner services, which are constantly on track during international meetings. One of the activities of the Security Service is the fight against corruption and organized crime. I would like to point out that in 2016-2017, 2 000 799 criminal conducts were launched, which were delayed, reported suspected, eliminated and so on. A great deal of work has been done, and 1,000 52 have been sentenced, and I emphasize that 1 thousand and 52 persons have been searched for 104 who have been hiding from the authorities of justice. Officials of the authorities of law enforcement and other bodies, this is pure corruption; in 2016-2017, 1 thousand 154 criminal conducts were violated, of them 889 per article 368, i.e. unjust gain. Underlining, 512 people have been convicted, including corruption in the State Migration Service environment in 2016 and 2017, 30 criminal conducts have been reported, 22 of which have already been reported for bribery, 12 people have already been convicted, and one person has been released from service. As an example, I can cite the arrest, the strong arrest of the head of the State Migration Service in Kiev, who offered the head of one of the departments, i.e. his subordinate, $75,000 in bribes for obtaining refugee status by 75 Syrian citizens. The case has been successfully investigated and is now in court. I also want to point out that we have a lot of examples of positive cooperation with other law enforcement agencies. Since we are all subjects who are subject to search and rescue activities, we are no exception to the NABU. Of course, I'm going to stop a little bit more in detail on a matter that I think is of course of interest to everyone. You know, on September 26, 2017, the first deputy head of the Pimachov State Migration Service called on the Security Service to obtain an improper benefit from a citizen of Ukraine named Titienkov S.O., i.e. the commission of a crime envisaged in article 369 KK of Ukraine, "Proposal, Promise or Unlawful Benefit to a Service Person." On the other hand, since this crime does not refer to the undersecurities of the Security Service, the materials of September 27 were transferred to the Public Prosecutor's Office, and later, the 28th, the Judicial Investigation Authority of the Court of Appeal, received a sanction for conducting in relation to the citizen of Titienkov inadvertent investigative investigations, the removal of information from transport, telecommunications networks, the monitoring of the person provided for in articles 258, 260, 263 and 269 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. In the process of working on this issue, it was really documented that bribes were being prepared, and only on the day of immediate detention, i.e. on November 29th, another qualification sign was introduced to the GDR, i.e. article 370 of the second part of the report is the provocation of bribes. Then you know the story: a number of follow-up actions have been carried out in which the activity of the designated persons has been fixed. I want to point out that I can't assess the activities of my colleagues from other law enforcement agencies, because they do the same thing in the fight against crime, but I note that we have a fairly normal working relationship both with the NAB and the Attorney General's Office, with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and with other intelligence entities that fight crime. At the same time, I cannot understand when security officials, who also work quite effectively on different lines of their law enforcement activities, are forced and have to comply with Ukrainian legislation and at a time when someone is given either preferences or misunderstanding exceptions. In the process. In the course of the investigation, a significant amount of restricted-access material has been removed, a significant number of investigators have been identified in the investigation process, and special technical devices that will be established in the investigation process have been removed. In the course of the investigation, the work of Ukrainian citizens has been documented, whose status is not yet clear to me. Because a person who works in a search and search or does a search and search activity is obliged to keep the State Secret Act, including, and the Security Service is a professional body that ensures that all citizens, institutions, organizations that have access to the State Secret, this law. To date, of course, we will be assessing and facilitating investigations within the framework of the Office of the Attorney-General's mandate. In general, I am convinced that both NABU and other newly created bodies have the right to life. We'll do our best to continue working together. We're going to do everything we can to get a result and fight corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u145	Thirty seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u146	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u147	It's over. Thank you. As we agreed, first two speeches, and then questions separately to the head of the Security Service and separately to Henprokur. And that's why I'm thanking you now, Mr. Basil. Then again, I invite you to answer the questions of the national MPs. And the word is given to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, also 10 minutes, and then there will be questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u148	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The topic of today's discussion is the situation that has arisen in the relationship between the different law enforcement authorities, which is causing both resentment and rather harsh statements by our strategic international partners, the United States of America and the European Union. As the Attorney-General of Ukraine, I would like to reiterate that all the law enforcement agencies under the procedural direction of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for more than one and a half years of my tenure have kept working together, and all the inter-ministerial wars that have shaken this part of the law enforcement sector have been suspended and have never been repeated. Unfortunately, that is no longer the case today when the National Anti - Corruption Bureau constantly makes statements that, of course, raise questions about the situation that has arisen. I'll start with the dry, but probably the most important things that concern society. Not a word, not a name, but results. First slide, please. On the results of the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine during the 10 months of the current year. You can see what's going to court. We've shown information here exclusively on the mass of corruption crimes, not to mention all the other tens and hundreds of thousands of runs. THE U.S.A. has sent 50 cases to the court, 20 of them according to the materials of the U.S.S.A. and the U.S.S.S.A., which testifies to the normal cooperation of the system. The Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine has sent 800 indictments for corruption for this year, which refer to both the officials of category "A" of previous periods (for example, the well-known leaders of the Janukovic environment) and the active authorities. Within what the law allows us. The number of persons brought to criminal responsibility in corruption crimes, respectively, in the NABU 88, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, 979. Damages have been compensated. Corruption offences: 41 million dollars – NABU, 185 million, 600,000 dollars – U.S. Attorney General's Office. The amount of a special confiscation applied to members of a criminal organization: 26,000 dollars -- NABU, 44 billion dollars -- the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. This is our common result, and I'm not inclined at all to compare who did more and who did less. Each structure is working on its legal sector. However, our normal cooperation does not mean that the Attorney-General may not notice any sign of a violation of the law that is allowed in any of the law enforcement agencies. Such signs can be found in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in the Department of Public Prosecutions, and in the Office of the Attorney-General. Unfortunately, we have detected such signs during one of the criminal acts, and such signs exist in the activities of the National Anticorruption Bureau. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in early October we received a statement from one of the heads of the State Migration Service that a citizen unknown to her was constantly provoking her in bribes. According to the current legislation, we have registered appropriate conduct under article 370 of the Criminal Code "Provocation of Bribery". After that, we set up surveillance of this citizen, and we set up an unannounced removal of information from the room where he held operational consultations with other unknowns in the civilian area, where for more than a month we fixed their preparations for the provocation of bribes. Then we came to know the employees of the National Anti - Corruption Bureau, which gave rise to a very different situation: it was not an unknown group, but probably the employees of the National Anti - Corruption Bureau. I would like to draw your attention to our position regarding the provocation of bribes. It is based both on Ukrainian law and on the practice of the European Court of Justice. Here's another slide. The European Court of Human Rights has acknowledged that incitement to crime is illegal. Instigation by law enforcement officials is done when appropriate law enforcement officials or those acting on their instructions are not limited to passive investigation, and in order to establish a crime, they influence the subject, leading him to commit a crime that would otherwise not have been committed. ESPL's decision on Takeseira de Castro v. Portugal. By translating into plain language, we are talking about the following. A lawyer may, under cover, suggest that an official do what he is entitled to do. For example, giving a permanent residence certificate to an Iranian citizen who has been in Ukraine for two months. And if the official says he'll do it, but he wants a few thousand dollars on top, that's corruption. And the actions of a lawyer under cover are not provocation. If a lawyer under cover suggests to an official that he commits acts that are notoriously illegal, such as buying a kilo of heroin, a stolen car, a gun with corpses in his history, or issuing a passport from an Iranian citizen who is 2 months in Ukraine, which is absolutely impossible, we are, both the European Court, and the Ukrainian legislation sees it as incitement to crime, and thus the provocation of a bribe punishable by article 370. I have in my hands the sentence of Ukraine in the Cherkas region, which, on such grounds, sentenced a law enforcement officer and released him from the sentence of a briber. There's a colossal. The thing is, in America, for example, legislation works quite differently. They have bribe provocations that are actually legalized, normalized, and that's where law enforcement operates on other principles. However, in the European Union and Ukraine, as an integral part of the European Community, there are laws prohibiting the provocation of bribes. And we have to act, I think, legally, right in that direction. In the process that will follow, the investigation and the court must be decided, and no one else. Personally, by studying my supervisor’s hard work, I see the words and actions of a migrant official as a sign of corruption. Whether they can bring this to trial and stand down in court will depend solely on the actions of the detectives and the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. I leave this right behind them and stand ready to support them in their legitimate actions. On the other hand, we're going to, we're going to hand over suspicions to those NABU workers who, in our view, have signs of a criminal offence instigating a bribe. And we're going to operate within the competences given to us, and we're also going to probably get to court. But that was not the problem. The problem is that in the course of the study of how the NABA staff councils took place, there was a rather specific situation with respect to law enforcement in the area of the creation of so - called agents. I would like to point out to society that Mr. Artem Sitnik is constantly using terms that are not used in existing legislation. Ukrainian legislation does not provide for the word "agent," does not include the word "employee under cover." It foresees very simple things: there are regular and nonexistent, loud and insolent workers. There's no other way. We read, for example, the following. The NABU Act (please the following slide), article 10 stipulates that all employees of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, with the exception of the Director and his two deputies, who were elected by a special procedure of a competition commission composed of the moral authority of the nation, all other NABU employees are appointed to positions at the National Bureau solely, I stress, on the basis of the results of an open competition. This is a rule of law that can't have any other treatment, like all employees -- detectives, internal security, contract workers, special forces or operational response units -- they all have to go through an open competition that is accessible to Ukrainian citizens. It's a rule of law. If she's good, we'll see. Please continue a little.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u149	How many minutes??
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u150	Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u151	There's no objection, I think five minutes to continue. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u152	When we asked the question, how were two agents or two NABU employees appointed, two NABU detectives who are likely to be interrogated right now. Who are already being questioned about provocation. Mr. Sitnik said at the briefing: "Yes, they are indeed regular workers. The competition was held, but the normative documents on it are classified." As an open competition, I don't know. I think it's a Mongol fleet because the competition is either open or classified. In this connection, the NABU Press Service has further stated that, in fact, they say, we are acting in this case in the appointment of so-called agents, not on the basis of the NABU Act, but on the basis of the Operational Search Act. Okay. By opening this law, we can see that it allows for the appointment of regular and nonexistent, loud and unspoken workers. If these detectives are inconclusive, they're all detectives, they're entering the NABU state, and the entire NABU state, unfortunately, has to be recruited by law for an open competition. Does this rule work in other law enforcement structures? No, it's not. I was the Minister of Internal Affairs, who personally signed orders to appoint unspoken U.S. officials who were taking part in specific procedures that were in line with valid legislation. But I didn't have any friends from one very active faction that constantly insists on open competitions of everything that can be assigned. And that's exactly what this faction did in writing the NABA Act. And today, Mr. Sitnik and his subordinates are hostages of the rule that they should all be open at the contest chosen. What should the director of the NAB do in such a situation? Or change the law, or do not have to deal with insolent employees. Obviously, there was no time to change the law, for the head of the profile committee is still in tents and preparing for the next revolutions, and the director of the NABU has decided to go another way by holding unknown unforeseeable closed competitions. Moreover, the NABA Civil Council stated that they did not participate in such a competition because they did not have access to a public secret, but considered it normal. Colleagues, I can't think of it as normal, because as a Henprosecutor, I'm not only supposed to act out of sympathy, but I have a crush on Mr. Indian, the head of this unit, I've worked with him, and so-called Agent Catherine and many other agents. These people are doing their job, but their leadership has assigned them against existing legislation, and this is a problem. Let's move on. Ukraine's State Secret Act stipulates that all non-voice workers have an obligation to work with secret documents, so-called wiretaps (ATIs or their own) must be allowed to have access to state secrets. This is the name of this law. I quote: "Accept to state secrecy is granted on the basis of an order from the head of the institution or organization where he works, is on duty or is taught by citizens." Article 24 foresees that this is done by the Ukrainian Security Service. At this point, both detectives, who are called undercover agents, have no access to state secrets, and they're doing little work on classified documents. It's illegal. More than that, criminal responsibility for similar activities. Again, I'm sorry about the agents or, in fact, the NABA workers who were put in this situation, but it's a violation of the law. People who have not signed under the protection of a state secret cannot operate on a state secret. Let's move on. Order of 16.11.12 on the approval of instructions on the organization and use of the results in criminal proceedings, as well as Cabinet Regulation of 22 September. The 16th regulates what any service with its own devices is supposed to do. And the police, like the police, and other law enforcement units, have to first get permission from the BAF first to purchase such products, namely a licensed manufacturer, then purchase them in a secret order, and then put them on the bill at the BSC. That's the order. I can't tell you the text because it's secret. But I'm handing over his standards and here, I see, the heads are nodded by those who had something to do with it. Colleagues, nothing has been done. During the search of the detectives ’ apartment, we discovered a large number of classified documents that are not stored in closed special devices at all. And so is her own wire, which was there, and she's unaccounted for in the B.S.U., and their manufacturer's not licensed. Unfortunately, this is also a violation of legislation. It's clearly stated that government customers agree with the BSC with the basic tactical and technical characteristics that will be developed or acquired by them, as well as with the BSC account. And they're still being passed on to these customers for use in operational and technical. operational search and rescue activities. This is the norm of the law, and it must be observed. And the last. The Criminal Code also provides for punishment under article 359 "Illicit purchase, sale or use of special technical means of obtaining information". Unfortunately, this rule of law has to be applied in this situation. And the last thing I don't want to talk about at all. But Artem Sitnik, who is in the United States, has launched a very violent activity to raise the whole public and, in particular, our partners in joint activities, such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation, to discredit the Attorney General and all the Ukrainian law enforcement agencies. He claims that I threw stones in the back first, and then, it turns out, in the face of the FBI, claiming their activity in Ukraine is illegal, and so on. All these manipulations with words. Literally, I have commented on Mr. Sitnik's statement (please put out) on the briefing, one and the other (in terms of the Burstin case and the Migration Service case) the operation was carried out jointly with the FBI (U.S.A.). Dear friends, the FBI, like our other partners, cooperate with us in providing legal aid. This means sharing information, providing expert conclusions and other things to communicate information. But the operations in Ukraine of any other intelligence or law enforcement authority in another country are impossible. That's what the FBI said: we don't operate. And I'm happy about it. And from what he says, perhaps inadvertently choosing words, Mr. Sitnik, I can allow myself to be wrong in words. But why do we have to organize an entire discredit campaign in the United States on it. After all the misinformation he's started, it's not clear to me. I think that's the only sign of this: the young head of the young unit, unfortunately, has failed to comply with current legislation in his activities. And instead of admitting mistakes, sitting at a table and perhaps changing legislation, perhaps changing its practice, calling for the help of older companions to tell them that it is not really a moronic substance, but apparently it does not. I call everyone to peace, especially the heads of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, and I call for constructive cooperation and I offer the following things. First. To be subject to the National Anticorruption Bureau Act, which states in an article that all employees of the NABU, apart from public employees, are recruited at an open competition. It'll take one day for the committee and one day for Parliament, I hope. The other one. Sign up for an ASP, get licenses, and sign up for any listening devices that they can use after such registration. Third. To ensure the exchange of information with the specialized anti-corruption prosecutor's office in the course of all R & D activities, R & D and other investigative activities. Statements such as those made by Mr. Sitnik that the instructions of Mr. Coldsky's procedural manager are legally worthless, to be thrown out of his lexicon. Public attacks on the legal position of other law enforcement agencies must cease. We have a society waiting for the results of our work, not loud statements and discoveries. Unfortunately, however, I have to say that the criminal responsibility for the mistakes already made will be, first of all, the head of the department who, according to the law, has the authority and responsibility to comply with all the rules that he has grossly violated, and I have to give you information about this right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u153	Colleagues, so we have 40 minutes left, if we have an extension, 50 minutes. My proposal is, after a minute of fractional question, just like, a minute of questions and two answers, and it's going to be 25 and 25 minutes -- 50 minutes. Is it gonna be okay? That'll be fair, won't it? So first, let's go to the head of the Security Service. I'm just stressing, colleagues, it's not a record of MPs, it's not an incident like yesterday, it's a faction. The faction itself determines who will represent its interests when asked. [[B in m in s a l in]] We just can't make it. There are either deputies or factions. Colleagues, pay attention. Colleagues, attention, attention! I'm consulting you right now, and I'm asking you not to raise your voice. Let's maybe do that, consult with Yuri Vitaliovich, ladies and factions, and MPs, they'll form questions for whom and you'll answer them. Is that how it works? That is, the author of the question defines to whom, according to whom this question will answer, or Yuri Vitaliyovich, or Vasil Sergiyovich. Is that how it works? Then it's going to be 25 minutes from the factions 15 minutes from the deputies -- a system that's in full reading. That'll be fair. Colleagues, first 25 minutes for fractional questions. For 25 minutes, all six factions and two groups will be able to ask questions and get an answer. Then, who will the author call, then 15 minutes from the deputies, is that fair, colleagues? Fair enough. So I'm asking you to record it, first on a faction question, and then there'll be a question from the MPs. Please record. So, from the Self-Help faction of Yegor Sobolev, Vojcitsky is passing on. be determined by each other. Who's Wojcietsky? Turn on the mic. Sobolev? Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u154	I have a question for Attorney General Yuri Lucenk. When you came to this office, you asked Parliament to remove the intrusiveness and give you permission to investigate the crimes of Vadim Novinski. I wanted to know what was done in a year. And, likewise, what are the results in investigating cases involving other national deputies: Boyka, Villukla, Lewochkina, Shufrich. People who are no longer national deputies but were officials in the days of Yanukovich: Lukash, Kaskiv, Zacharychenka, Ivanyushchenka, Kernes, Dobkin, Steppe? Answer the results of the investigations conducted by the Attorney General’s Office in these cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u155	Thank you for asking. Dear Mr. Sobolev, if you were in the hall yesterday, you would have heard part of the answer, because one of the questions I answered yesterday was about Mr. Novinski. But considering that you're finally here in the workplace, I'm going to repeat it to you personally. First of all, you should know as the head of the profile committee that the cases of Lvochkin, Sufrich and Kaskov are located in the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, and that's true, and that's true. For example, Kaskov’s case, which was required of us for a total of more than 700 million losses, has since continued to be in the NABU without any suspicion. We have a small fragment of this case left of 7.5 million, we have brought it to an end, we have a suspicion, we have an extradition, we have brought Mr. Kaskiwa here, and he has the prospect of being brought to justice as soon as possible. Regrettably, if the NABU does not present an additional 700 million, it has every opportunity to receive a probationary term because it has fully compensated for the likely damage and has five children, including minors. So I urge you to activate the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau within your competence to bring Mr. Kaskov to justice in the entire set of charges that he can and should be brought to justice. The other one. I'll talk about my competence. Yes, all the things that I asked in Parliament and got permission to do so are at the final stage. For example, Mr. Novinsky had one expertise left, and then his case with the indictment would probably go to one of the courts in Kiev. The second question. The cases concerning all the high-ranking owners of Janukovic, who are in our jurisdiction, are actually completed with a rare exception -- we have not yet finished the tobacco business, and in the course of the discussion on which article to be presented regarding Mrs. Lukas. All the others are debates in normal, legislation-bound boundaries, discussions between investigator and prosecutor. All other matters: Azarova, Arbusov, Stavitsky, Kurchenka, Klimenka, Janukovič himself, Yanukovič, Jr., Jakimenka, Zakharchenka – the investigation is completed and we will receive it. We look forward to the court's decision to allow for an explicit order of judicial investigation, as well as a special order of judicial investigation. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that by so sharply criticizing the U.S.S.A., you might want to pay attention to the details at times. For example, Mr. Stavitsky, the court considered this issue of permission from January, and just a few weeks ago, we were given the right decision after the incredible pressure. In general, most of Midan's cases are over. Those who have not escaped are in court, those who have escaped, most have completed the investigation, and we are granted permission from the courts to go on trial. The focus of society needs to be transferred to court. This does not remove our obligation to continue to work on the remains of the so-called Maydan and Yanukovich cases, and we will definitely do so. I think it's a huge breakthrough.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u156	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u157	Personally happy that the main requirement of Maidan is to say who gave the criminal order to shoot at peaceful people, we have found answers and permission to condemn Yanukovic, Zacharychenka and Jakimenka in court in an active phase. There are debates, more than half of the materials have already been heard by the court. As soon as permission is granted after the trial for the treason of Yanukovic, the trial of the accused will begin, expected by all of me and the wounded and the families of the victims.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u158	Thank you. From the "Peter Dust Block" Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich, please
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u159	I have a question for Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenka, Attorney General of Ukraine. First, Yuri Vitaliyovich, we express our deep support and gratitude to most of the deputies in this room for your incredible efforts to preserve the rule of law and order in our country. My question is the following. If possible, if your will, please tell me, is there a record of any conduct or case in the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the illegal hearing of Ukrainian national deputies to the National Anti-Corruption Office of Ukraine? Please give an extended answer if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I would like to be given the opportunity to answer that, because that is a broader answer. First. Mr. MP Melniczuk, thank you, of course, for your support, but the hardest thing that could be in this country is to follow legislation, whether it's easy or not, popular or not, I'm trying to do it to the best of my ability. Because the specificity of our cooperation with the National Anti-Corruption Bureau is that I've really had a lot of problems with possible violations of legislation, but I've been trying to do it without too much publicity lately. I think it's normal for a young institution to correct its mistakes without being particularly violent throughout the country, and more so than they've organized all over the world. However, unfortunately, Mr. Sitnik took a position, well, easier: all we do is legally, any criticism, questions, protocols, queries are impossible. I don't support this position and that's why. Our first problem was really the problem of removing information from mobile terminals, that is, from mobile phones that at the time of the NABU received 17, more faithfully, permission for 17 subscribers from the court. The court allowed NABA to listen. download information, not listen, download information from 17 subscribers. I took it off 114. Who are these people? It's the protection of the president of the warring country, it's the national MPs, it's the judges, it's the other officials. I think it might have been a technical mistake, calling on Mr. Sitnik. He said, "I'm fine." I'm saying, "Dear Artem Sergiyyovich, your supervisor's signature. This is the verdict of the court. 17. And here's your boss's signature."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u161	Please, just a minute. Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u162	"...in a report to the BBC that deleted information from 114. This has to be arranged somehow." To this day they have not done so. Why do I say that I never say it out loud? I hoped that Parliament would do the audit, and I would pass on all these materials to him. Understand the rule. [[Applause]] The problem of one or the other violations within any body exists, but all other organs, including the GPA, are under the control of one or the other institutions. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau has no audit authority. There's not yet. [[B in m in s a l in]] And so if. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll explain it to the MPs again. The difference between listening and withdrawing is great. If you need it, I can explain. To record information about what is said at the request of the U.N.A.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u163	One more minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u164	To record information on the text of a conversation at the request of an NAB according to the law may or may not do an SBA. If there is a court permit, an appropriate request is made by the BSC, including in the case of the likely provocation of the bribe, its printing of what the DMS employee said. And it's legal. THE court’s decision alone removes information from mobile terminals about who the subscriber spoke to for his connection and where the pipe (location) was located at one time or another. The removal of such information without a court’s decision is a violation of constitutional rights, which are punished in the same way as illegal listening. I know that because I've been through this myself. So I made an observation to the NAB that it's impossible: 17 permits and 114 withdrawals. However, there is no reaction. I don't want to destroy the authority and capabilities of the N.A.U.U. I'm the author of the NABA Act, after all. I'm a man who's together. I feel on one side of the barricade. But combating crime by illegal means will eventually lead to the creation of a CK that wants to act under certain non-State laws. And so today, unfortunately, I have to talk about it and ask the committee to sort it out, assign audits and eventually put an end to the war in the information space, and put everyone in the same frame. And the basis for that is, this base is called law, dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u165	Thank you. From the People's Front, Sergey Drauk is handing over Pinzenic. Please, Paul Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u166	Yuri Vitaliovich, two short questions. First, in the media, literally today, there is a reportable, more faithful, non-referenced, but the State Migration Service's information on the presence in the first Deputy Director of the NABU, Mr. Head of Nationality of another country at the time of appointment as First Deputy Director. In principle, after this help was made public, it was clear why the deputy director of the DMS became the object of the NAB’s provocation. But less so than is it used by the prosecutor’s office to verify and provide it with proper legal qualifications? If not used, please consider my speech as a parliamentary statement on this matter. And the second question. You mentioned in your speech a very important aspect of the work of our law enforcement system. It's work, legal aid work with other states and law enforcement agencies of other states. In this regard, we would like to refer to a report published on the United States Department of State website.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u167	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u168	Please. To help combat corruption in Nigeria, Sri Lanka, Tunisia and Ukraine, which says that US law enforcement officials were introduced into the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine to help fight corruption. This is a literal quote. In this regard, taking into account the highly creative approach taken by the National Anticorruption Bureau to Ukrainian legislation, whether such mutual work takes place through legal aid in the legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u169	Thank you. If you repeat it, please literally. You missed one word. What is happening in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u170	Let me get this straight. Replica, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u171	It says in the report: "U.S. law enforcement officials were introduced into the National Anti-Corruption Bureau to help fight corruption." And then this report is called: "A report on aiding the fight against corruption in Nigeria, Sri Lanka, Tunisia and Ukraine." It's published on the State Department website.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u172	First. Dear Mr. Paul Pinzenik, answering your first question, I cannot now recall which of the national deputies or even a few of them asked me about the likely presence of Georgia's citizenship in the first deputy director of the Gizo Ugleda NAB at the time of his appointment. We have discovered, registered, carried out previous investigations, which are now being consulted by lawyers. The point is that Gizo Ukłoda wrote an application to leave Georgia before he was appointed, even before participating in the competition. And according to Georgian legislation, one part of the corresponding article states that this is already a complete act. Another part of this article says that the conclusion of this act is considered to be the moment when citizenship is abolished. My personal point of view, but so far it's inconsequential and unofficial, is that Gizo Uklava did everything he could to get out of Georgian citizenship. But Georgia’s officials had already completed the final act. Whether this is a violation will be accepted, not by me, but by appropriate law - trained workers who will conclude. However, if you ask my point of view, then Gizo Upilá, I think, has become a hostage, let's say, an informal response to his statement by the relevant services of the Republic of Georgia. Whether there's a violation of the competition at all, well, let's get on with it. The other one. As for your quote, I don't know him. In my cooperation with both the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and today I have never heard of their intentions to have any of the employees involved in this task force in the states or states of our law enforcement agencies. Moreover, a recent statement by both Dresden and the FBI says that they have no shares in Ukraine or operations, because it's about English.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u173	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u174	I'm pretty sure they don't even have their employees in the NABU ranks. But there is one problem: from Nigeria, you mentioned, to our neighbours in Poland or Romania, the Attorney General has the right and the duty to control the legality of any act of law enforcement. In our case, this is not the case: The Attorney General of Ukraine, regardless of what his name is or will be, has no opportunity to require a study of the subject of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u175	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u176	Any business of the N.A.U.U. The legislator has deprived me of this possibility, so it is reasonable to tell you the answer to your question either the SAP or the audit you should create.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u177	Thank you. From Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u178	Sobolje, Fatherland. I'm addressing Mr. Gritsak's head of security. I've given you a special two-hour opportunity to prepare, speaking in the morning from the rostrum, about how your employees have opened criminal proceedings against the four deputies of the village council of Zaporozhye district of the village of Natalyvka regarding the attempted coup d'état. Have you prepared for this answer? Because if you didn't, I'm asking you to respond. Criminal conduct is closed a year later, and the lawfulness of the MPs is fully recognized. Clearly, they could not overthrow any state system of things. One of the deputies has served two months and has been under house arrest for eight months and cannot perform his duties. I'd like to ask you specifically, how will the officers of your department who have discovered this conduct be punished? The employees of your department, Yuri Vitaliovich, who continued this conduct? And when it's over.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u179	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u180	And when will your organs end up doing what they should do? And the second. Yuri Vitaliovich, I'm calling the head of the Security Service. Don't forget the decision of the European Court of Human Rights "Fatholuyev v. Azerbaijan" where words such as "thief" and any other prejudiced words that you use before the court's decision were the basis for Azerbaijan to pay 8 years to Mr. Fatulayev for such statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u181	Vasil Sergiyovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u182	Thank you, Mr. Sobolev, for asking. Unfortunately, I haven't heard from you, to be honest, that I might have had to watch TV, but I don't have time to watch TV at work. I promise you I will. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Sobolev, we have thousands of cases under investigation. And don't be nervous, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u183	Mr. Basil, you're on. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u184	Mr. Sobolev, may I say? You asked questions, I'm answering you. I promise you tomorrow we'll give you a written answer for this, I'll look into it myself, okay? I'll give you a written answer. Does that suit you?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u185	Thank you. The head of the Security Service said.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u186	And for what the Security Service is doing, believe me, Mr. Sobolev, the Security Service is doing quite a lot of good work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u187	Thank you. And the last question, colleagues, from. From factions, I mean, the last one, then it'll be from MPs. It'll be from the Radical Party of Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u188	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, yesterday Parliament voted in favour of inviting the leaders of SAP and NABU to the Supreme Council. They were gone yesterday or today. Today we read a statement from Washington from a beautiful distance where they say they won't come and they have more important things to do, and the visit lasts for the NABA and SAP leaders until December 12. Do I, fellow MPs, have a simple question for you, or have you forgotten a tool like parliamentary control? Maybe some of those who are now under foreign administration have forgotten that money has been created for taxpayers living in the parliamentary-presidential republic. This chaos, I'm referring to the Head of the U.S.S.A. and the Attorney General, the chaos that today and, including as a result of the activities of the government is because you created organs that are under external control when the director of the N.A.U.U. and the S.A.P. receive instructions from a guard of an embassy instead of coming to report to Parliament and send money to taxpayers. This is a mess of lawlessness when you can't take Saakashvili to the accused.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u189	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u190	When you're Saakashvili, accused of funding from Moscow, from the Yanukovich gang, you can't hold, bring to justice, you're demonstrating worldwide lack of law, no order and no state. I demand that you demonstrate to the world and to the Ukrainians, first of all, the opposite: that we have a state where the rule of law and law should be, not chaos and lawlessness.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u191	Thank you. Please comment, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u192	Dear Mr. Lazko. I agree with your question in a lot of ways, and I want to say the following. In a year and a half until I'm a prosecutor, I don't think anyone's heard of the wars between the GPU, the BSS or the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In fact, we have a lot of questions that we sometimes conflict with each other, but we always make decisions on the basis of law. I have worked hard in law enforcement, but I am so calm, weighed, and effective for a year and a half that I can’t remember, and I’m proud of it. From the beginning, however, the National Anticorruption Bureau considered itself to be a separate structure that was created completely isolated. If they have to put their wire on, they think it's unacceptable. If you have access to the hostess of your unspoken employees, they feel that this is unacceptable. They will not trust either one of us. And that means the breakdown of the rule of law in the activities of law enforcement. What's the illegal lead? I don't know. Special status. Think about all of the KGB's CDCs. Never forget, the first half of the 37th year, the Czech Republic held back over 260,000 spies, of whom, I remember, 881 Japanese spies in Ukraine. We've been through all this. I have no doubt that IT is necessary; it is very necessary as a single, independent but legally controlled body. And I'll do anything for it. However, I cannot agree that as soon as NAZC asks Mr. Sitnik what he has to ask, criminal conduct is violated. As soon as the head of CRU's financial agency signs an act that Mr. Sitnik got his apartment illegally, he gets criminalized. As soon as the U.S.S.A. starts breaking things down, that's where the talk about the war of revenge starts, that's the way to go. And we're here today, in Parliament, because there's another place to put everyone, me, the reverend Vasil Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u193	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u194	Dear Arsen Borisovich and no less respected colleagues from the NABU and the SAP, there is no more such place. I'm sorry, I don't have any jurisdiction over them. And last of all, after Saakashvili. Yes, Oleg Valeriyovich, I'm also, on the one hand, disappointed in yesterday's and tonight's night's events. By the way, the nighttime events are absolutely legal, because Mr. Saakashvili after the escape is announced in search of him, and the BSS and the IMF have to detain him, and this is a legitimate and necessary action in any state. But we could be more effective, the 12 security officers of Ukraine who were taking Saakashvili for questioning yesterday, all the ATO participants, I stress, who went through the fight, were legally supposed to open fire to impress, but we're thinking about the state. And Saakashvili, hiding behind the backs of Ukrainians who have been deceived and bought for Kurchenka’s money, think only of the shocks of this state, their personal comfort, and their thirst for power.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u195	Let me finish. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u196	So, of course, I apologize. We will continue to think about the state, sometimes not even using all our rights, but Saakashvili will be detained. The best thing he can do is if he wants a man, if he really does, even though he loves Ukraine a little bit, which he's always talking about, to come to the streets of Vladimirsk today to give evidence to the investigator. This is the only way for Ukraine not to destroy, as it does for the stolen money of Yanukovich, by bribing ordinary Ukrainians, militants and some of the national deputies here who are croaking at me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u197	Colleagues, we are now moving on to questions from the National MPs. People's deputies who want to ask questions, first of all, take part in the recording now, second of all, in the formulation of which of the leaders of the force department will go to your question. And I'm continuing the session until the completion of the questions from the National MPs, and I'm 15 minutes away. And I'm asking you to record a question to the heads of the force, please. Semenha Roman Sergiyovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u198	Please pass the word to Taras Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u199	Taras Shepherd's Self-Help faction. I have a question for the head of the Security Service. Unfortunately, while you were standing in the rostrum, I didn't hear from you what the Security Service was doing and who was responsible for almost four years of anti-terrorist operations? How many were attracted to those who drew people to referendums called referendums? How many people were there who called for that Russian Spring in Ukraine? How does the Security Service today deal with this so-called smuggling through a line of divisiveness that today stores in so-called "DNRah" and "LNRah" are filled with Ukrainian goods, even though the decision of the National Security and Defence Council is in place to ban any movement of goods into uncontrollable territory? Please tell me, how many citizens of the Russian Federation who are in the service of the Armed Forces are being detained by the Security Service and are being tried in court today? How long has it been since we've been
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u200	We're done. Please, Mr. Gritsak's microphone. 15 seconds, please, Mr. Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u201	Can you please answer how many court decisions there are in the last four years under the article "Terrorism"? So this is actually an article that only the Security Service deals with, how many people are finally getting punished?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u202	Thank you for asking. I'm going to start with me, the Security Service, in our department. Unfortunately, it's very unfortunate that almost, I think, everyone will be interested in this statistic that almost 1 thousand 300 Ukrainian security officers have been sworn in, first of all, by the Crimea and BAF in the Donetsk and Luhansk areas, and have gone to the side of the enemy. All the facts of this betrayal are based on criminal conduct by the military prosecutor’s office. With regard to the Security Service as a whole, I can say that today 84 criminal acts have been violated by the military prosecutor’s office in respect of the Security Service, us or our materials, usually according to our material. I'm afraid to miss one-two, 22-25 co-workers received court sentences, 55 reported suspicions, and others are on trial. I don't know if there are any other law enforcement agencies or agencies where we're documenting our own criminal activity. I'm starting with my own, so when Colonel S.B.U.I. is detained, the head of the counterintelligence of one of our regional authorities, and then going to jail is normal, isn't it normal? Article terrorism, I promise you, Mr. Shepherd, again as promised by Mr. Sobolev by tomorrow to give you statistics of those. One second, today, I'm going to tell you a little statistics like this, it's all closed to people in Ukraine who are at risk of national security for more than 5,000 people. Of which more than 2,000 are citizens of the Russian Federation. Similarly, a number of citizens of the Russian Federation are drawn to criminal responsibility for terrorist and diversified activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u203	Thank you. Please ask the following question from the national deputy, Bereza Borislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u204	Yuri Vitaliovich, I have a question for you. Please tell me that Mr. Saakashvili was found wanted and what to look for, he was here yesterday. You performed here, he performed there, you could have been arrested yesterday. Now, he's not exactly hiding either, what are you going to do next if he still doesn't come with something or other? I have a very interesting question, because you can't run a crowd because it's not Georgia. It was he who could once run the crowds and fill the streets with blood, and we cannot, indeed, be able to do so because it would push. And it's going to be a very bad situation, you know. So how are you going to get out of this situation first? What will you do if he does not continue to come to you? And thirdly, would you please tell me, will this show continue with its run around Kiev? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u205	Thank you, Mr. Borislav Bereza. First. Today, the full responsibility for the detention under the law of stateless Michael Saakashvili rests with the operational units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Air Force, which they do and will do until it is detained. In doing so, both me and their leadership are assigned the task of making the situation as soft as possible with regard to other Ukrainian citizens, for, unlike Saakashvili, once again, we are thinking about Ukraine, not about its personal ambitions. The other one. Yes, it is true that he acted in a very different way in his time. Yes, my friend, Minister of the Interior of Georgia, Vano Merabisvili, has been in prison for many years, including being accused of violent acts against demonstrators, where enough blood has been shed. Michael Saakashvili, who here tells everyone how he reformed the legal system and the judicial system of Georgia, hides from them what he says is a European species of honest and incorruptible Georgian Femid, hiding here instilling Ukrainians to repeat similar Georgian events. As long as I'm in my position, he can't carry out such bloody provocations. And those who surround him, who accumulate before the declared peaceful arms protests, the explosives that prepare the capture of the Supreme Council have failed to implement it because of our principle, perhaps not a very showy activity. It is effective because few know about it. What's going to happen next from Saakashvili is up to him, because today the police came absolutely legally to arrest him and lead him to the investigator, but he and the group of fighters who surrounded him took over the committee of the Supreme Council, which is located in the Kiev Hotel, broke down the door, kicked out of there a DOD employee who was guarding the state premises, and was allowed to rest there.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u206	Thank you. Please, the next question. Come on. On request of the hall, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u207	This is registered as criminal conduct and will also be evaluated. But we are patient, no matter how many believers we engage, it will also lead to an investigator. That's for sure!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u208	Thank you and I'm sorry I didn't make it. Please, the next question is from the People's Deputy of the River. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u209	Please pass the word to a colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u210	It's a princess. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u211	Dear Mr. Vasile, I have a question for you. We read in the press how the FBI in the United States exposes Russia's involvement through social networks in the U.S. elections, we read about the impact on elections in the Federal Republic of Germany. We can only imagine the impact on domestic politics in Ukraine, compared with those countries, because we are fighting a war. The National Television and Radio Board claims that it does not have enough authority to stop anti - Ukrainian propaganda on television channels. What's going on in social networks? If you do not have enough of these powers, should we accept some law on this matter? And we're ready to do that, but give us a bill. And the quick question is, what do we know about the investigation into the assassination of a colleague of Mosiyczuk at the espresso channel, during which the health of journalists was damaged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u212	Thank you for asking. I would like to remind everyone that the professional body that provides security for state information resources is DSTI, which is headed by Leonid Eudochenko. But at the same time, we are also clearly working in that direction, and there is a department within the Security Service that is looking after the cybersecurity of the state. Moreover, this year we have implemented the first phase of the NATO Trust Fund, which Romania holds, and we have created our own situational centre, which is the core of the DSTI system. This work is doing quite effectively. So far, we've been involved in the investigation of many cyber-incidences. A lot of cyber-incidents. We've got some good stuff. Unfortunately, for the most part, I can say so, it won't be very general, but it's true: in most cases, we do see traces of the Russian Federation in cyberstreaming or threats to Ukraine's state information resources on the part of Russia. You yourself see a huge number of "changes" that are being carried out, of course, by powerful hacker groups, some of them standing in the service of the Russian Federation, again, we have confirmation of this information. Yes, we need to strengthen our ability in this direction, but first of all, we need to strengthen the technical capacity and we hope to support the government, to support, first of all, the financial system to build a reliable detection system at the early stage of cyber-accidents. With regard to the case of Moseschuk or the assassination of the people’s representative of Moseschuk. Yes, we are investigating these materials and we have considerable progress in this matter. I will tell you clearly when we have someone we consider to be a performer or a contractor today. You know, we have successfully investigated the case of the assassination, not the assassination, but, unfortunately, our Colonel Haraberius Alexander Ivanovich. We arrested the man who blew it up in Donetsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u213	Thank you. Thank you for the information. And next, the word is given to the national deputy Sugonjako Alexandr Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u214	I'd like you to pass it on to Packa Valeria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u215	Packet, please. Turn on the microphone, please, Ducky.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u216	Dear Vassil Sergiyovich, Yuri Vitaliyovich, the question will probably be for both of us. But before I ask you a question, I would like to express my gratitude to and probably from many colleagues in the Security Service, namely, the Alpha Special Unit, who became hostages to politics in yesterday's operation. Yuri Vitaliyovich, yesterday you were speaking from the rostrum and you were highlighting a number of articles about Mr. Michael Saakashvili. Please, is there an accusation or an article, or is it Michael Saakashvili himself who is responsible for the creation of a criminal group? Are Ukraine’s security investigators going to call Michael Saakashvili to account for any other articles? And I'd like to ask you very much, we've heard the view of the U.S. Attorney General's Office, the Security Service, and we'd like to hear the point of view of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office and the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand perfectly. We need to do this so that we can hear their same points.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u217	Would you like some time? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u218	Mr. Head, I ask you to invite these leaders as well. So that we can hear the same view of these departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u219	Thank you. Today, he invited an official letter twice from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u220	Respectable. Dear colleagues! Yesterday, I think I announced on several occasions that Michael Saakashvili had been served with a detention protocol in the presence of a lawyer, where he was to be given suspicion under article 256, "According to members of an organized criminal group." 256th. Saakashvili himself is not suspected of creating a criminal organization yesterday or today, no other articles are currently considered by the investigator as possible. In connection with Saakashvili’s escape yesterday, he is being searched by law today in the proper order for his place of residence and for his protection, he is under suspicion. In fact, by the end of the day, it will be considered as being served. Therefore, Saakashvili's status will be upon completion of these actions as suspected in article 256 of the Criminal Organization. In parallel, I want to tell you about your next question about the legality of SAP, NABA, and so on. Dear colleagues, it's simple enough. I've described the order. Incomplete, indeed, a number of violations, from our point of view, of effective legislation in the activities of the NABU. Two ways are to solve this situation: either restore legality, or act on the precedent of the National Anticorruption Bureau of Poland, the first director of which is in prison for breaking laws, including provocation of bribes. There are two choices. I'll go first. You know, I'm a man who never wants to spend another person's time suffering, but we need to restore the law, and there will be no other way. No one does.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u221	30 seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u222	I am personally under any pressure from abroad, in Ukraine, through texting with threats, because of fear of possible trouble for my family members, and I will not be able to get out of my position. The law is mandatory, primarily for law enforcement agencies. Those who fight crime must commit crimes rather than commit crimes. [[Applause]] And we have to do it, hopefully, along with you. In doing so, individual inadequacies of the law must be corrected.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u223	Thank you. And one last question. Less than a minute is left, so this is the final question from Sergio Ivanovich of Skuratov, but he conveys the question to Oleg Valeriyovich Láška. And please describe to whom that question is.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u224	In order to restore the rule of law in Ukraine, people need to see that power begins with itself, that authorities are directing all their actions to raise incomes in Ukrainians, and that there is justice to be an independent judicial system so that they do not have to take action to protest. Why is Moscow’s Saakashvili agency and those who support it for the money of Yanukovich’s gang a success? Why do some people follow them? Because these people cannot find justice in the courts, they cannot find the truth. Right now, we're all back from the Supreme Administrative Court. Specially block the decision of the CEVC administration in order to prevent the registration of a new national deputy. Are you talking about the judicial reform that our great president has carried out? I would like to inform you that last night, Bogdan Lvov, the head of the Supreme Court's holding plant, was chosen as the head of a large reformer who has nowhere to be stamped. And we'll continue to hang a paw on our ears, talk about judicial reform, tell you what.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u225	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u226	Can we find justice? So if we want the law to be in the country, we have to stop lying to our own citizens. First of all, we have to stop bringing these foreigners here instead of allowing Ukrainian youth to realize themselves and then create problems for the whole country. So I demand that Parliament become a site that will control everyone: both the GPU, and the SBA, and the SAP, and everyone else. When they send us greetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u227	Colleagues, that was the last question. And that's why I recommend that both the Head of the Procurator's Office and the Head of the Security Service may comment. And so that we can complete our hearing. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u228	Well, it's pretty clear that this is a rhetorical question. And, oddly enough, today is the second time I've agreed with Oleg Laszka. I've also been saying for a year and a half, the state needs a square of justice. An independent, objective, and swift court. Regrettably, in all the district courts, the capital has four to six judges. And that's clearly not enough for rapid processes. The law forbids me from discussing their business and professional qualities. But I think you're all thinking the same thing as me. We need new honest and professional judges. And that's exactly what I agree with. The only thing I'd like to say. Yes, people will believe in justice more quickly when criminal proceedings against high - ranking workers are carried out. And I'm called the Attorney General of Ukraine, but I'm deprived of the possibility of signing suspicions to acting leaders who are caught in corruption! You took her from me. Only the National Anti-Corruption Bureau can sign today, for example, a suspect whose project I sent them three weeks ago about the acting head of the Holding Fund. He signed a document that allowed him to steal, to privatize 500 square feet [500 sq m] illegally in Krestatika! But I, Henprocuror, can't call him a suspect! Therefore, respected colleagues, success will be enjoyed by those who will go ahead and rely on cooperation. I am open to it, both to Parliament and to all law enforcement agencies, including SAP and NABA. I urge everyone to work on the result and stop the show and switch word battalions, especially among the leaders of the power structures. Thank you all for your attention and understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u229	Thank you, Attorney General Yuri Vitaliyovich of Ukraine and Head of Security, Vasil Sergiyovich Gritzak, for their participation in the hearing. And now I'm giving the floor to Irina Heratschenko and then I'm closing the morning session. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, I don't have a message, I have a line. Using the presence here of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service and the Attorney General of Ukraine, I would like to provide you with some information and, in particular, to thank and thank the honourable leaders and their structures that today, for your information, we are meeting with representatives of these offices every day for the release of hostages, which I hope we will be able to implement for New Year's and Christmas holidays. And I would like to thank you in part for the Titanic work that the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office are now doing to make this happen. But taking this opportunity and realizing that we can't all talk to you in public right now, I want to draw your attention to the fact that you know that there are forces and politicians who are trying to resist this very important liberation. I ask you to resist now very hard any attempt to undermine the question of the release of hostages, which is to take place within the framework of the implementation of the Minsk Accords and the work of the Minsk groups in cooperation with the CSF and the GPA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m0.u231	Thank you. And thank you to all the national deputies that we have been able to carry out our hearing today. And I want to wish all the national deputies fruitful work on the committees. I would like to remind you that tomorrow we have a budget adoption, so I will re-emphasize the budget committee on the quality of the document so that we can work hard tomorrow. Good work on the committees. And the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. And I remind you that at 3 p.m. there will be a celebration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the first Criminal Court. And I invite all the deputies to participate in the festive session. Thank you. And I'll see you later.
