ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u1	Good morning! I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for registration. Are you ready to sign up? People's deputies please register. [[10:01:33]] There are 348 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of the national deputies. People's deputies, not factions. And so all the national MPs who would like to make statements and reports, please hold the record. Please record. Brigadier Alexander Mikhailovich. Turn on the mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u2	Hotcharyenko, Peter Dustenka's Block. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome all of Ukraine's citizens and us Ukrainian parliamentarians with the successes that our diplomatic front has received and reached in the last few days and meetings in the United States. It's a huge step forward, it's a huge victory for us, it's a huge help from the diplomatic front to our eastern front, where our boys keep the world from the hordes. We all know what $500 million is. That's more than 13 billion dollars at today's rate, even purely in money, is a huge amount that will be very helpful to our army. But the main thing is the psychological effect of this step, it's a step that shows that Ukraine today is one of the largest allies in the United States of America in the world, if not counting NATO countries. This means that there is a way for Ukraine to receive military assistance from Britain, France, Canada, and other countries around the world. This means that the whole world is demonstrating today Putin that Ukraine is not alone and that one will not remain, that they are with us and will help Ukraine to contain the aggression that is coming against us today. The price Putin will pay for wanting to continue this aggression will be extremely great, and it will stop it. At the same time, we're not going to use this weapon, and it's about flying weapons, that's what we've all been looking for for for so long. We're not going to use this weapon to storm Donetsk. We all understand that our goal is to regain control of both Donbas and Crimea in a diplomatic way. But the stronger our army will be, the sooner it will be. Today will be our President's speech at the UN General Assembly. I'm asking all of us to support today's diplomatic Ukrainian front, because there's a lot of decision there today that our nation's fate is being decided on. I am sure that we too are winning a very important victory for all of us today. Hello, all of you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u3	Thank you. The arrow conveys the word of Labazuku. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u4	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! On the other hand, I would like to raise a problem that is extremely important in the context of decentralization. This is a question of land transfer outside local communities. We've been talking about this for almost three years in Parliament, but so far the issue has not been resolved. More than 40 members of the agrarian committee, and not only with government representatives, with land experts, worked on the second reading of Bill 4355. It clearly defines the mechanism for the transfer of land to the territorial communities. The status of collective property is also being determined, which has nearly one and a half million hectares, which are now being processed in the shadows. And that's the main thing. We made it clear in the land control project, which is now missing because the salt inspection is eliminated and the control authority is suspended in the air. According to the law, they're not passed on to anyone, they're controlled, and the budgets are losing huge costs. I have a number of references from the Poltava communities of Zynkowska, Mirrodska and others regarding the self-absorbing and purposeless use of land. Bill 4355 conveys to the communities, I emphasize, the essential functions of monitoring violations of land legislation to the communities. Moreover, local councils are given the authority to approve the land's monetary valuation beyond the population, and this depends on the coming of local budgets. I would like to point out that this bill was supported by the government. On Monday, however, the government registers a new bill on this subject. It's very short. This is about transferring land outside populated areas to exclusively united communities. In fact, we could also agree to such a concept. But how will this work in practice without land control, without a clear mechanism to establish community boundaries? I'm underlining that there's no such thing as a government bill. The same issues of collective property. I can give you an example of forests being destroyed all over the country. Lands beneath them were dependent on collective property and did not actually have ownership. This is precisely the question of Bill 4355, which provides for a mechanism for the transfer of these lands to collective property. So I would like to address Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I think the law should work to make people feel that way. And from a bill that doesn't solve the questions I've heard before, I don't think there's gonna be much more to it. So let's work together with the members of the agrarian committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u5	Thank you. The carpenter, Vladimir Miranovic, conveys the word Igor Lapin. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u6	Glory to Ukraine! My dear colleagues, I think every single one of us watching what's happening in the country right now understands one thing: the point of failure we've gone through in Maidan. It's the responsibility of each of us, but above all it's the responsibility of the national MPs, it's the responsibility of the ministers, the lawyers and the judges, all those who in their profession are in charge and have been given a mandate of trust by Ukrainian citizens. This Parliament has assumed the responsibility to carry out reforms. They're not easy, they're painful, they're probably hard to understand, because they're only going to be appreciated after a few years. But all this time we need to pull this load of unpopularity to make sure that people have chosen the right vector and that the state has chosen the right vector. Reforms are needed by a country that has passed the point of failure. Note that two events have taken place in Odessa during the last few days. Children were burned to death from the camp fire, and the figures of the May 2, 14, riot figures were acquitted by the court. Granted, under pressure from the public, some have been reinstated, but such different events illustrate our country and our lives. Our attitude toward those around us, and as long as each one of us feels that all crime and crime and wrongdoing will pass away, we have no right to expect a better future. That's why we have to fight this. If we are able to resist an external enemy today thanks to our Armed Forces, there is indeed a contradiction within the country so insurmountable that we will not be able to fight these contradictions in order not to dissipate our nation. We have reformed the law enforcement system and the prosecutor’s office, but it still needs to be cleansed of villains and traitors. We have adopted educational reform, but it must be protected from those who do not like our choice of Ukrainianism. Today we have the responsibility for judicial reform. And in pursuing the independence of judges, honest and judicial decisions, we understood that the path was unforgivable, but Ukraine would pass it. I know, of course, that there's nothing about the highlighted populist curtains from the rostrum that sound much more convincing, but when we see that we have courts in the state that make decisions often, often enough, not by law, but by right of money, we have to fight it. All in the state must understand that punishment will be irreparable for all the crimes committed. The power of law is vested in the state, and I speak for it and stress that we all need to unite around it. The power of law must prevail over the right of power, for it is only in the state. And if we don't form professional and honest courts today, we're going to die of self-judgement tomorrow. Rematchism is moving forward in a variety of ways, the rematchists are not interested in Ukraine, they are only looking at us as territory, and we need to protect our statehood. Rematchism won't go away. Glory to Ukraine! We're gonna win!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u7	Heroic glory. Lavrick gives the floor to Semensi. Please, Mr. Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! For days, the Ukrainian Parliament will consider another imitation of the government, the so-called pension reform. After examining the document for second reading, you conclude that the government has two objectives. The first is to meet the requirements of the International Monetary Fund for the reduction of the fiscal break-up of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, primarily by raising the retirement age for individual categories of citizens and giving one-off taxes to people. And that concludes the good news. People have baptized this reform quite simply: before we thought about how to survive to retirement, we will now think about how to survive to retirement. Very often this pseudoreform is given to us in the form of justice. And I want to ask the government a few open questions. What kind of justice can we talk about if we offer individual categories of citizens who are not guilty of not officially working in the 1990s and we propose to increase their actual retirement age to 65 when the average age of men living in Ukraine is 64, 66 years? What kind of justice are we talking about if we don't stop a retirement for women under 60? Yes, indeed, in Europe people retire at 63, at 67 years of age. But then it would not be fairer to start with a genuine medical reform, to extend the average age of Ukrainians, and only then to raise the debate on the increase in retirement age? Next. What justice can we talk about if, in fact, I want to be heard by all Ukrainians, for all the new Ukrainian pensioners from January 1, 2018, the pension will be one third less, and for three years the government freezes one of the key indicators for calculating pensions the average salary per country? I think the government should stop blackmailing Parliament with this legislative initiative. It is the duty of the government and parliament to abolish the shameful discriminatory tax on working pensioners as early as 2016. The re-indexing of pensions was possible, the government had to do it in 2016 and it did not need law. Next. The government must be honest to admit that the existing solidarity system is a brotherly grave for all pensioners, for all of Ukraine. And even the reformed Ukrainian Pension Fund, by changing the number of Ukrainian pensioners, the current solidarity system is not able to ensure that the minimum pension, or even the minimum social subsistence minimum, is true. And the only fair and objective solution is the introduction of a second accumulation level that will in turn stimulate the development of a third, not a state pension system. And that's the only chance, not the fact, but the chance that future generations will have a decent pension in this country, and this country will have a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u10	Andrew Illenko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians, there has been an unprecedented event in the city of the Black Sea of Odessa. That is, the local court justifiably sentenced 20 collaborators, separatists who, on May 2, 2014, in the Ukrainian Odessa, filed a military coup against the Ukrainian State and tried to turn Ukrainian Odessa into a bloody rubble of "Russian peace", which we are witnessing today in Russia's occupied Donetsk and Lugansk. It was this scenario that tried to be implemented on May 2, 2014, in Odessa, with weapons, with the killing of Ukrainian patriots on the streets of the city. And only the heroism of Ukrainian patriots, in spite of the actions of local law enforcement officials, who were completely on the side of separatists and collaborators, stopped this rematch plan. And now the local Ukrainian, with the permission to say, in paws, court, decides to justify these criminals, these murders. And what's more, it says in the verdict that he said they were helping the militia to ensure public order. So it turns out that Ukrainian patriots have violated this public order, and it turns out the next step is to persecute Ukrainian patriots, what today's government has been doing actively in recent years. Of course, this situation should not be overlooked. If central authorities are to turn away for a moment from protecting their corruption schemes and to protect their statehood, the reaction must be swift and unrelenting. Because we understand that this rematch needs to be rooted out, otherwise there will be trouble, or it will grow. Otherwise, Russian terrorist activities in the south, in the east of Ukraine, will start again tomorrow, and attempts to take power will begin again. And this is a threat that the authorities, unfortunately, are not struggling with, they're grappling with. So right now, I'm convinced that we, all Ukrainian patriots, have to protect Ukraine's integrity, protect its independence, and I'm sure we'll do it, as we did in 2014, especially in Odessa. But what's happening right now is that, as far as the central authority is concerned, I have the impression that this is what, the implementation of some secret Minsk amnesty agreements by terrorists, is obviously some kind of contractor. This leads to a problem that is getting bigger and bigger. Thus, only a harsh response to the manifestations of collaborationism and separatism will enable the situation to be kept under control and ensure that Ukrainian victory is achieved. The glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u11	Dowbenko. He gives the floor to Arthur Gerasimov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I would like to draw once again the attention of all citizens of Ukraine, all colleagues present in this room, to what is happening. Let's see what is the clear position of our faction of Peter Dusty. We are in favour of clearly changing the judicial system, we are in favour of increasing the pensions of Ukrainian citizens. But in this room right now we see a clear attack on judicial reform, we see a clear attack on pension reform, and I think that's unacceptable and unacceptable. Because that's what we're talking about. The purpose of judicial reform is to replace this old corrupt system of the days of Yanukovic, which has been cemented in these times. Do we have a discussion about judicial reform? Yes, there is. But sorry, when there are real discussions, that's a good thing. When technical delays take place in a process that aims to disrupt reforms, it is quite different. I want to give you an example of how we have adopted the reform of the education system in this room. Did we have any questions that separated the hall? Yes. But very constructively, representatives of all factions took this approach, and, as you know, for example, this same language issue found constructive compromise and was voted in this room. And to this day, we are all proud of how we voted in favour of reforming the education system. I think the same should be true of both the judicial reform and the pension. Because on the pension issue, it's very simple: the key she's been giving to our pensioners since October. Excuse me, whoever's attacking the pension reform today is only trying to make sure that Ukrainian pensioners don't get the money. I think it's an opposition to power, it's an opposition to all of Ukraine, and especially to our pensioners. So I would like to call on all the colleagues in Parliament, all the factions, to carry out constructive work in this room, not, excuse me, to extend technical consideration of issues in order to undermine both reforms and reforms. And there's another important point that I'd like to focus on. There was a vote yesterday in this room to extend Parliament's work on Wednesday, which is today, until the day's order is exhausted, until all legal rights, such as judicial reform, are exhausted. As you've seen, the faction of Peter Dustenka gave the maximum number of votes on this issue, we gave them over a hundred, but somehow some factions just didn't vote for it. You know, there's a lot of talk about this, but I honestly think that the question, for example, canceling breaks, the question of extending plenary hours, they have to unite the hall. Because today, let's not forget, there's Russian aggression going on, we have to quickly adopt laws, we have not, sorry, in the 1990s some European countries, they had a few years to implement reforms, we have to do it quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u13	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u14	So, dear fellows, I'd like to urge everyone. If we ask in this room the question of continuing or canceling Parliament's work, support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u15	Thank you. Jacenko gives the floor to Moses. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u16	Good afternoon, dear fellows! By order of and decision of yesterday’s Health Committee, which unanimously supported the demands of the trade unions that took place at the Supreme Council, allow me to read out the requirements of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Office of the President, and the Ministry of Health, to the Supreme Council. Expressing indignation at the unfair discriminatory treatment of pay and violations of our labour rights established by Ukraine's legislation: non-payment of wages, aid for recovery, cancellation and limitation of payments, allowances and allowances, part-time work, leave without saving wages, reduction of staff, increased workload, transfer to fixed-term employment contracts, narrowing the amount of professional benefits and guarantees. Not agreeing with the unsustainable scientific and economically unwarranted reform of health care, which does not conform to the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine, does not provide the necessary funding to ensure the constitutional rights of citizens to free quality and affordable health care, to work conditions and to pay workers, the trade union requires the signatures of a hundred thousand health workers, to appoint a Ukrainian Minister of Health to increase responsibility for the work of the sector in the context of the implementation of medical reform. The other one. To increase the amount of medical subsidies for 2017 no less than 3.9 billion dollars to ensure timely and full pay-outs for health-care workers, taking into account differentiation, according to the legislative requirements, the payment of health-care aid, the repayment of arrears in payment of wages. Third. Eliminate the pay-as-you-go balance by raising from September 1, 2017 to two tariff levels of the single tariff network of salaries for doctors, nurses, including non-medical professionals, to provide the only approach to paying for the work of budget workers. Four. Establish a health allowance for the prestige of work for public and municipal health workers. Fifth. To ensure the full cost of the staff of the National Academy of Medical Sciences, to start the work of the Peace Commission in September of this year to settle the collective labour dispute between the trade union and the Cabinet of Ministers, collective negotiations on the conclusion of a sectoral agreement for a new term. Reforming the health system by upholding the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine, taking into account the position of the profession and the thinking of the health community, preventing the destruction and commercialization of the health system, and preserving the human potential of the industry. To enforce the court's decision to revoke the Cabinet of Ministers' orders from the San Service reorganization, as well as the reduction of the bed fund. These requirements of the trade union were fully backed up by committee decisions yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u17	Thank you. Debenkov gives the word for Paul’s speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u18	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, in Krivý Roz, unfortunately, because of the actions of the state authorities at the state-run "Crivorizka thermal power plant" for half of this year's city, winter can be a major disaster. There was a real threat that by the start of the heating season, more than 2,000 homes, 22 hospitals, 75 kindergartens, 78 schools, and the military section of the Ukrainian National Guard could have lost their heat. In a crisis situation, Kyiv decided to privatize the company, which was repeatedly opposed by the leadership of the Horn of Curve and the city council. At the holding company, the manager has been replaced five times. None of them were in harmony with the city’s leadership. In addition, at the beginning of April, the Dnipropetrov region's Master Court opened up the conduct of the bankruptcy case of the "Bloodfire Centre". The bankruptcy lawsuit was filed by the NAC National Company Naftogaz Ukraine. Colleagues, understand the point: In this case, the state is judging a state enterprise. All of this led to the fact that the business was essentially paralyzed. Because of the gaps in legislation, an enterprise simply cannot be counted for energy. The state’s debt to subsidies and benefits also complicates the situation. Each day, unfortunately, they grow. The curved Rig did not get nearly 300 million dollars from the budget, of which 90 is the Crevice Central. I want to point out that the city budget, the business and the industry of our city have no debts to energy. Only yesterday did we solve the issue with an energy-efficient organization to connect the state-run power company. And in fact, it was only yesterday that the filling and testing of the heat supply systems began, but the gas supply issue remained open. In order to remove the crisis situation, the management of the Horn of Curves has been designed and amended to Kiev’s legislative base. A prepared package of documents has been submitted to the Cabinet of Ukraine. It is vital that these amendments be made before the start of the heating season. I really want to believe that here in Kiev, they will hear the crevices and will not leave people without warmth. With regard to the community-based "Criminal Warfare" company, which is run by the city itself, the technical readiness for the winter here is a hundred percent, but there is no technical capability in the city to re-connect housing and social facilities that feed from heat power networks to other sources of heat supply. Therefore, on behalf of our colleagues in the Horn of the Curve, on behalf of the inhabitants of the country’s industrial center, we demand that the authorities of the State take immediate steps to restore the stable operation of the thermal power plants in order to keep the poachers’ homes warm. If the situation does not change dramatically in the near future, this winter half the population may end up in cold apartments, children in schools, and people in hospitals will freeze to death. Thank you for your attention. I hope for support and understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u19	Thank you. Shepherd Taras Timothyovich, please pass on the word to Ruslan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u20	Dear Ukrainians, the distinguished representatives of the legal community who are in this room, and watching carefully our meetings all these days, I want to explain what has been going on in Parliament for the last two weeks. The consideration of procedural codes is about you, it's about each and every one of you. The ancient Romans had the following saying: Beat jus incertum, ibi nullum - where the law is unclear, it is not there. Procedural codes will determine the fate of every Ukrainian who seeks the truth in a court of law and seeks it from 10 million to 15 million each year. Consider this figure, from 10 million to 15 million Ukrainians search for the truth every year in Ukrainian courts, but they will not find it under these codes. If we don't bring it together, if we don't make sense, if we don't end up with the chaos of law, we'll never be able to give the Ukrainian a chance to find the truth there. And that's exactly what the national MPs who work do. And as the people's deputies work, I want to bring you some dry figures, for example, on yesterday. Percentage of participation in the vote from the "Clock of Peter Poshenko" is 30 percent, percentage of participation in the vote of the "National Front" faction 19, percentage of the "Opposition Block" faction – 13, part of the "Party of Rebirth" – 8, self-help fraction – 61, part of the "Fatherhood" faction – almost 38, radical party faction – 2 percent, group "Will of the People" – 3.6 percent, non-fractional – 13. These are the real results of yesterday's vote on the amendments that decide, the citizens, your fate that give you or prevent you from eventually finding the truth in the courts. Procedural codes are the defining part of all the other reforms that we're talking about: pension, medical, energy, eventually any other. Effective courts, fair courts are what break the chain, not just a circle of corruption, all the wrong processes in society. So, honourable citizens, look at what is being discussed, analyze how your MP votes, and then draw conclusions in the next election, who will be supported, what political forces, whose national deputies, and what we will work with tomorrow, and what society, and what state we will have as a result of the adoption of those laws, in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u21	Thank you. Final speech. Sevraykov's handing it over to Barney. Come to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u22	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian people have chosen us to serve him. We took an oath to protect our country’s interests. And I'm sorry to see some politicians turning legislative action into a political struggle for the sake of a personal pianist, stirring both political and social stability, endangering our statehood and independence. I'm sorry to see that recently the Conciliation Council between the factions of the Supreme Council is turning every Monday into a so-called struggle, a political struggle between party leaders who come there just to scream, just to lie, and then run away without even staying to hear the legislative initiatives of the committee heads of their political factions. So we can say the next thing about that. Once again, I want to confirm and affirm the inadmissibility of a completely destructive conscious position and an activity that turns exclusively into the populism of some factions. The judicial reform that we are currently implementing, which we are voting for, is called upon to restore people's faith in justice, so that there are no such cases as in the Black Sea yesterday. Retirement reform is called upon to return just pensions. The one who worked more should also have a higher pension. Return wealth, stability. Because the very fact that there was a pension was already under threat. Medical reform is called upon to provide adequate medical services to our citizens, not to fund beds. Guarantee immediate relief and relief to the very poor. We can argue with you colleagues for many reasons. But for us, one has to be a goal. This is Ukraine’s victory in this war. We can argue in party terms. But our goal is a great good Ukraine. And where there is no patriotism and reasonableness, separatism and poverty prevail. Where there is no populism, people always lose. And where there is no unity, there is always a loss of statehood. I call you to unity for the sake of Ukraine and for the sake of our people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u23	Heroic glory! Thank you. The time spent on speaking to the national MPs is exhausted. One statement came to the fore on the announcement of a break from two factions: Self-help and the Radical Party. They're ready to take a break. And so, before I go to the agenda, I invite Oleg Valeriovich Lalashka to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u24	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Yesterday our faction had a meeting with a government team led by Social Policy Minister Andrey Revo. The key issue that we discussed was pension reform. I think that everyone in this room and everyone in Ukraine is aware of the need for pension reform. Because it is totally unacceptable when people who work long hours receive modest pensions, work decently, work honestly, and then have to pick up garbage to live or wait for a tax to be paid in order to buy an elementary package of drugs. So our team, the Radical Party team, is totally out of control. And we see the main idea of pension reform in one is to raise pensions so that someone who has worked hard gets a decent pension. Our team has made demands on the government and our proposals for pension reform. The first and the key is to raise wages. Because when people get low wages, they're going to get a low pension. 3700 dollars is the minimum wage offered by the government since the new year 2018, and we are completely out of line because today the average salary per country is more than 7,000 dollars. According to the International Labour Organization, the ratio between average and minimum wage should be between 40 and 60 percent. Thus, Ukraine’s minimum wage should be at least 5,000 dollars. And that's what the Radical Party team requires. The higher the salary, the higher the pension. Next. Increase in living minimum. The government is proposing to raise the living minimum from October 1st by 5 percent, that's 60 dollars in real measure. It's absolutely. Inflation this year is 11 percent, and an increase in the subsistence minimum, which counts pensions and everything else, is only 5 percent. Rising wages, increasing pensions should be ahead of price increases and rising inflation. Therefore, the requirement of the Radical Party team: an increase of at least 15 percent of the cost of living so that people can get a real increase and that the increase in pensions and wages is not consumed by inflation. Next. We're asking you to take into account the insurance system that gives you the right to a pension in a college period because it's out of the picture right now, and actually it's out of that internship for five years. Nine hundred and forty-nine dollars a month is paid to half a million people who do not have the necessary employment. We're asking them to raise their pension to the minimum of living, so that instead of 949 dollars they get, at least, one and a half thousand dollars a month. And the last. Even when some worked, others didn't work, they get the same pension. We demand a pension, an index for those who have a great job.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u25	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're moving on to questions. There's also a statement from the faction of Peter Prashenko and the People's Front. And here's the invitation to the head of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, I would like to welcome all of us that, at last yesterday, thanks to the public, NABU opened a case regarding the investigation of the corruption of Sergey Ljovczyn. This needs to be welcomed, because a lot of things are opening up now, the NAB works, we've created these organs, and finally for the third year after the victory of the Dignity Revolution of the former President's Administration, who is already living in Rostov or Moscow, or, God knows, they're going to draw and investigate all of its actions. I want to remind you that this is the person who signed the application to Zacharychenk, the former Minister of Interior, of the whole Russian agency that worked for the government. She personally signed these submissions in the assignment of military titles. So, I'm sure that the work in the NABA on this type of thing is going to be quite a lot. But one question is, why did it take three years and require public influence? And now we're hearing in today's speechs of opposition colleagues who here told us that these codes should be carefully adopted. Yes, that's right, but don't hide behind the procedure, you've turned it into a farce, don't delay in time, because this week we have another twofold task: to adopt pension reform. This is expected by 9 million pensioners who are expected to receive a substantial increase in their pension as of October 1. And so I'd like you to publicly explain to 9 million retirees right now why they might not get a pension out of your first number. So, dear fellows, I am addressing you all, let's work today, and tomorrow, let's go through the amendments to the codes. I believe that, Mr. Head, we need to consider our proposal to work at night, and that we can do so, in order to adopt and pass codes, and proceed to the consideration of pension reform. Dear colleagues, I am again addressing the responsible deputies in this room. It is up to us to reform this country and to build a European, independent state of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u27	Thank you. There was a possibility. Colleagues move on to daytime issues. I invite the head of the Ruslan Knazevitch Committee to the rostrum. If there is no objection in the hall during the discussion, I will be asked to allow Ruslan at some point in the workplace to have a discussion. I'll remind you, we're done with Amendment 225. And I invite the author to make an amendment to the word. 225th. Ruslan Sidorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u28	It's ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u29	226th. Don't insist. 227th. Don't insist. 227th. Cool.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u30	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I would like to begin with, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council and the honourable colleagues, and, above all, the Ukrainians, I would like to explain that the Fatherland faction has fought and will continue to stand very consistently for every amendment in these codes, precisely to show how imperfect the document was submitted to the Supreme Council, how manipulated it was when all the codes were broken in one document, in violation of the Supreme Council Rules. And more than that, I'm going to tell you that if each of our amendments and the fight for this is going to produce concrete results to protect people's rights, we're going to do it. I'm going to remind you of the Education Act when we were able to increase the real wages for teachers to three minimum wages. And if that whole review was worth the whole day to raise teachers' wages, that was what we had to do, and we were right about it. So be patient and work on the Supreme Council Rules. And this amendment, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u31	Only, Your Honor, I would like to emphasize that you have used the Rules three times. According to the Rules, only after the amendment under discussion is made and the substance of the amendment is justified. Therefore, by calling for compliance with the Rules, we simply have to follow the Rules ourselves. Thank you. Next item is 228. Don't insist. Okay, I'll put the vote to 227 amendments. If anyone insists, I ask you to vote. Who's behind it. [[10:43:24]] For-58 The decision is not made. 230. Don't insist. 232. Don't insist. 233. Don't insist. What's that? Which one, Ivan?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u32	232th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u33	232th. Cool.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u34	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. With regard to this amendment, we suggest that after the words "other participants in the trial," the word "or another close person without a degree of relationship." Why? Because if there is a conflict of interest and a judge has to take action, it may not necessarily be close relatives, there may be cases where there are close individuals who do not have a degree of relationship, but it is clear that the judge’s participation in the trial may cause conflict of interest, and then the decision that the judge makes may be questioned. So I ask, colleagues, that we support this amendment and write the exact wording proposed by the "Paternity" faction: "or another close person without a degree of relationship." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u35	232th. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[10:44:52]] For-59 The decision is not made. 234th. Eutushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u36	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. In fact, Mr. Head and Mr. Chairman of the Committee, yesterday we pointed out that there were a lot of Russianisms in the process and that were our amendments, both by the Fatherland faction and the Self-Help faction, and we also find that today, so we continue to work. In the first part of article 37, I propose in the amendment that paragraph 3 be supplemented by the words "or there is any other conflict of interest." Many are now present, especially in local councils, at low levels when there is a conflict of interest. To them, this is a new phenomenon and they need to understand clearly where there is a conflict of interest, so that we don't have any corruption at all, so that we don't have a derelict of land on local councils, because we see it and we see it today. Please vote, make the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u37	234 revisions. Please vote on who supports it. [[10:46:16]] For-63 The decision is not made. 235. Don't insist. 236th. Don't insist. 238. Don't insist. What's that? What's the readout? 239. Please, I haven't gotten to her yet. Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u38	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, Ukrainians, are now receiving very important documents that Ukraine will live on. And now the pressure on Fatherland, when it tries to correct these laws that will make the judiciary worse in Ukraine on the basis that pension reform will not be adopted there, it's all about trying to bring about laws that will harm Ukraine right now. Nothing prevents the authorities from modernizing their pension. It is not her right, it is her duty. It's about the readjustment. Now, the code contains a potentially stalemate situation, if the case of a case of a cassation is considered by the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court, and then the party wins the European Court and submits an application for review of its case, this case will not be reviewed by anyone, since the code says that the judge who took part in the case will not be able to review the case. Our paper allows us to do that. Otherwise they're just not going to look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u39	Thank you. Please vote. [[10:48:06]] For-61 The decision is not made. Next amendment 247. Don't you insist? Cool. Eutushka. The national deputy of Evtushok. What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u40	247th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u41	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u42	Thank you, ma'am. I propose in this amendment, in article 40, part three, to put it in the following wording: "The leave shall be motivated and may be declared for opening the proceedings either at the preparatory session or at the beginning of the first court session, if the case is dealt with in a simplified lateral order. Self-refoulement may be a statement to open the case or no later than the beginning of the preparatory session, or the first court hearing, if the case is dealt with in order of order of order or simplified conduct." Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u43	Thank you. Please vote. [[10:49:30.]] For-51 The decision is not taken. 249. National Deputy Ivchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u44	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, the question is about the disqualification, and the question is that if a retrial is made before a court of law, the court leaves such an application without consideration. We suggest that if the applicant does not provide new evidence. That is, if the applicant submits, the court may review the application. And in general, colleagues, I want to say that not only are the parliamentary factions of the opposition fighting for fair trial, but also non-parliamentary forces, experts, including forensic experts. And I would like to point out that this bill does not allow a witness to participate in a video-conference session. In administrative proceedings, the court is given the opportunity to transfer the obligation of proof, a violation of the rights of the defendant. In administrative jurisdiction, it will be prohibited to provide for a lawsuit by suspending the decision of the authorities. This bill does not meet today the requirements that we imposed during the Revolution.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u45	You insist, don't you? Please vote. [[10:51:06]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Next 255. Are you insisting? Please, National Deputy Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u46	Thank you. The amendment also refers to the abuse of the right of retaliation and the groundless withdrawal, where we speak of the fact that without new evidence, perhaps conduct, a judge can make an appeal. But at the same time, I would like to go back to the comments that were sent to us by email today by the experts in the Reanimation Package of Reforms. In particular, it is legal to try cases before a court when the defendant did not receive a report in due course. What I'm trying to say is that in the criminal process, the parties to conduct, including the defence party, are deprived of the right to choose for themselves and involve a judicial expert. The criminal investigation will also take place after the registration of information in the Single Register of Trials. It's just that I want to draw the attention of the society and the Ukrainians, that today it is the opposition forces and factions that are fighting for the integrity of justice, for the kind of justice that people want to refer to. It's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u47	Thank you. Please vote. [[10:52:39]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 267th. Are you insisting? Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u48	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the new withdrawal procedure creates preconditions for mass court hearings. If a person claims a judge’s return at the beginning of the session, the conduct will be stopped and the case will be referred to another judge for trial and disqualification. Even if the withdrawal is refused, the case will be dismissed. What if there's an expert on this? Hence, it is suggested that if a person makes a reference to a missing page code, it is considered by the court to which the withdrawal of a statement, as it is now being done. And if a person has submitted an appeal in advance, he will be considered by another judge in such a way as to avoid tearing down the already appointed meeting. Thus, not only will an impartial examination of the diversions be ensured, but it will also prevent the abuse of that right. Please put my bill to the vote and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u49	Thank you and vote, please. [[10:54:10]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Next 268. Are you insisting? Next Amendment 276a. Don't you insist? Please, 276, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u50	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Now in this room, you see, you're trying hard not to raise the level of pensions for retirees, you're trying to get order in the medical field to extend those laws that, to our conviction, will create conditions for possible future forgeries for people who are in power in court, forging farm affairs, even forgeries in elections, because here, Poshenko is creating a separate chamber that will allow him to make any decisions related to the electoral process. Imagine, now even the retirees have been taken hostage and told that they will not get a pension until they accept these inadequacies to the codes, even the medics, the sick are taken hostage. We stress that now to modernize a pension is not only a right, but also an obligation in power, a pension can be raised without any change.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u51	Thank you. Please vote. Ah, committee, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u52	I purposely took the floor because I had just spoken with such an amplification. And now I want to quote what the point of the amendment is, think about it. I'm reading an editorial that says, "There are applicants for individual conduct." Attention! Koma, "other interested people." What is suggested after such sleep? "There are applicants on a case-by-case basis," and instead of a coma, "and other participants in the case," that's the whole point of your rights, actually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u53	Thank you. Please vote. [[10:56:34]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 290. Don't insist. 291. 290. Please, National Deputy Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u54	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Indeed, this amendment is, on the one hand, editorial, but why did we make amendments to such a character? Because we worked very closely on these codes. There are a bunch of amendments essentially, but there are technical amendments. And this indicates that these codes are written illiterately, with a lack of adherence to Ukrainian standards. So we have to correct the grammatical errors in these codes, including the amendments that my colleague spoke about. As for this amendment. Note paragraph 6: “To exercise other procedural rights defined by law”. Question: "What's the law?" That's why I'm proposing in this amendment that I write clearly this code. Because all rights of a procedural nature are provided for by this code, not by some virtual law. And this amendment is accurate, which shows exactly how many technical disadvantages there are, in these codes that are given to Parliament. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u55	Thank you. Please vote. [[10:58:12]] For-44 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 291. You're not. The next one is 293. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko. 291 first. People's deputy Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u56	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, note what was accepted as a result of the first reading and what the committee actually supported. Part Two, paragraph 4: "to present all available evidence in order and within the time limits established by law not to hide evidence." What does "don't hide evidence" mean, someone can explain it to me? There are two sides to the business process, each party has the right to submit the evidence it considers. In the civil process, I'm sorry, I talked to him. Each party submits the evidence it deems necessary to base its position. Can we explain the binding norm in the Civil Procedure Code not to hide evidence? So, of course, we've made an amendment to remove this inadequacy, the words "not to hide evidence" have to be removed from here because it's the party's right to submit evidence or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u57	Please vote. [[10:59:47]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 293. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u58	Madam presiding officer, I have a request and a request to oblige the reporter to answer essentially the rights. He gives some kind of emotional replication that does not apply to this law. His duty is not to stand up beautifully behind the rostrum but to explain the essence of the right. My 293 is about the following. The Code proposes to introduce responsibility for misleading the court. We suggest that we note that such responsibility comes only for deliberately misleading a court, otherwise it turns out that a person may be conscientiously wrong about certain circumstances, but still will be called to account. The witness is responsible only for knowingly false testimony. And in the pages of the case you're talking about. And the sides of the case, the sides of the case you're proposing to punish even for being conscientiously mistaken when they were telling the court their version of events. I'm asking you to answer essentially the rights, that's the reporter's duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u59	Please, one minute from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u60	The substance of the amendment: the word "intentionally misleading" is added. Well, what else could there be besides deliberate deception? Please read other explanatory dictionaries, and you'll understand the essence of the expression "misleading." As for the error you are referring to, read the codex in other parts. That's what they're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u61	Thank you and vote, please. [[11:01:50]] For-49 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 294. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u62	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the duty to tell the court the truth conflicts with the attorney’s duty to keep the client’s secret. When the client tells the lawyer the whole truth about his case, he expects privacy. But if the court has the right to ask the lawyer to tell him everything the client has told him, the attorney’s secret will simply disappear and the right to receive legal aid will be guaranteed. It is therefore suggested that a lawyer does not have to answer the question if such answers lead to a breach of the client’s interests and violate the lawyer’s secret. The lawyer has no right to lie, but he should not tell what he was entrusted with under confidentiality. Please put my bill to the vote and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u63	Please, from the committee, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u64	I would ask that we not manipulate the hall with these terms. No one, according to the lawyer, is obliged to publish any confidential matters that the trustee has entrusted to him in a court of law. That's not what this is about. The point is that a lawyer on behalf of his client cannot deliberately mislead a court. You have to take responsibility for that, and so does your lawyer. This standard is preventive in all countries of the world. Let us not now take advantage of lawyers who are very uninterested in this norm. I understand that there are lobbyists, including your faction, who are very keen to do so. That won't happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u65	Please vote. [[11:03:49]] For-48 The decision is not made. Next amendment 295. Please, National Deputy Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u66	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We're talking again about this definition, which appears in the Civil Procedure Code, of what is responsible for misleading the court. In the meantime, it is not clear what to consider to be a fraud in court. When the two sides in the civil process give their evidence. Evidence can be evaluated subjectively. And it can be said that this is the very evidence that this explanation is misleading. And so one of the sides is to draw responsibility and exert pressure on one side. So, of course, such things can't be included entirely in the civil process. And that's why I'm proposing a 295 amendment to the fourth section of the Civil Procedural Code. And I'm asking my colleagues to support me. Well, let's face it, what we're turning the trial into in the Ukrainian courts. He's still imperfect, and here we want to destroy him.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u67	Please vote. [[11:05:11]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 299. National MP Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u68	Dear colleagues! Now we're looking at the Civil Procedural Code. I'm talking to the citizens watching the broadcast. Civil proceedings are about ordinary, average citizens, grandparents, family affairs, housing, land affairs, and so on. Yesterday we successfully buried the farm process. I just want to hope that the civil process is not something we're going to do. What are you talking about? Amendment 299 and Amendment 300 give us common sense to such concepts as fastening. If you come to the notary, all the notary legislation says the treaty is certified, a copy of the document is certified. The only way to fasten the documents is with a stapler, but not with a seal or a signature. So you have to substitute the term "the document is bonded" into the word "the document is shown." Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u69	Please vote. [[11:06:34]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 300. National MP, 300th National Deputy Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u70	Please support the 300 amendment, which goes back to the second part of the eighth paragraph of the word "strengthen" to replace the word "witness." Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u71	Please be supportive. [[11:07:12]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 304. People's deputy Krulko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u72	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, look at the title of this article, "The Inadmissibility of Abuse of Procedural Rights." I propose that this article be corrected in general. It's the same thing that we would now assume responsibility for the fact that when MPs first review the Code, they use their regulatory rights, it would be called "you abuse your rights and you'll be responsible." That's what they want to do in the Civil Procedural Code right now. Please tell me where the logic is. If a person uses the rights granted by the code to protect his or her legal position to protect his or her client's position, where is the abuse of rights? And how can such things bring a person to justice? So we want to build a dictatorial court, where everyone has to stand on a string, where there's nothing that can prove where it's impossible to prove its evidence, and we can only act in a way that's good for the judge. It's not a process, it's a competition principle. So support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u73	May I have a moment with the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u74	I wish we weren't manipulating again. Look what this is all about. There are clear reasons for the court to react, not in the Criminal Code, but within the framework of the Code. In that case, if a complaint is filed against a court decision that is not a charge, either intentionally with a violation of jurisdiction, or deliberately filing several lawsuits immediately, you know how it is done until it comes to the judge they want to make a deal with. All of these things are in the right codes right now and we're not making anything up. But to remove them means that we will allow such unacceptable shameful acts to be done. Maybe that's the point of your rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u75	Please vote. [[11:09:24]] For-47 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 305. National MP Sidorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u76	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Unit. Well, now I want to go to the citizens who are watching our broadcast and remind them of a saying that, in fact, everyone knows, "You can't lose." Where to put who? That's what's happening to us right now. Where we put the comas, the definitions we use are your fates in the courts. That's what 305 is about. In article 44, it's suggested that we replace the word "competition" with the word "competition." Why? Because that's the norm. The standards used in this article should apply to all those involved in the trial, not only to those who take part directly in the trial but also to those around the trial. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u77	Please vote. [[11:10:43]] For-53 For 53. The decision is not made. Next amendment number 310. Don't insist. Next amendment number 313. Don't insist. Next amendment number 316. Please. 316, People's Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, well, the article on the inadmissibility of abuse of procedural rights is now under consideration. Colleagues said that right now the authorities want to stretch out, and, you know, the court, like a breath, where you're going to go, that's where it came out. I would now like to refer to the conclusions of the General Legal Authority and to the person behind the rostrum. The Legal Authority states that article 45 of the draft provides for a provision on the non-admissibility of abuse of procedural rights and provides that for the abuse of rights by the parties to the trial, the court may apply to it the appropriate measures provided for by the CDC. In our view, writes the Chief Legal Authority, these vague powers of court may lead to a violation of the right to a fair trial, a right under article 6 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. This is your goal to violate human rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u79	Please vote. [[11:12:25]] For-47 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 324. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u80	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. There is now a simple way to avoid automatic distribution. A number of similar lawsuits are filed without the payment of the court’s fees; then, where a suit is served by a convenient judge, the court is paid and others remain uncontested. It is suggested that in the event of action, any party has the right to file a case, so the judge to whom the first of the same motions has been allocated. Thus, the automated distribution of things will be real. It will be much more difficult to influence. We insist that the automated distribution of cases be clearly fixed, and that any abuse of it be eliminated. I would like to remind you that Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko, was condemned by those judges who were under falsified and distributed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u81	One minute from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u82	This is another testimony that we do not even understand what we are talking about. Just in the preceding speech, a person spoke of the need to delete an article about the use of procedural rights, including in connection with the filing of a complaint until it was for the judge. And the next talk says that if such a thing happens, it must be punished. So you define yourself, this is some kind of political schizophrenic thing going on in one head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u83	Please vote. [[11:14:25]] For-42 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 329. Don't insist. Next number 331. Don't insist. 331. The national deputy of Evtushok.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u84	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues! Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. In addition to having gone through a difficult period yesterday and closing the amendments, which unfortunately were not accepted, one code, today we are considering another code, the Civil Processual, and trying to understand what the committee has done, they have amended. Instead, we are getting some criticism, Mr. Head of the Committee, perhaps you better find the philosophers who will at least correct the mistakes and Russians you signed there. One second. With your money, you close the door of the court, make those courts inconclusive, opaque. And so let's work better, correct this shameful story and vote on a normal document. Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u85	Please vote. [[11:15:50.]] For-46 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 332. Don't insist. Next 344. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u86	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, at any stage of the trial, it may be found that a court hearing may affect the rights, freedoms or interests of third parties, restricting the involvement of third parties only by the beginning of the case. What to do in a situation where the court has moved on to the matter in substance and whose rights will be accurately entraped by the court’s decision, and it is fully justified? What if the person did not know objectively that such a matter was being considered if the parties had hidden the existence of such a person from him? It is proposed to note that a third party, without self-requirement, may be involved in a dispute at any time before the completion of the trial in the first instance. Please vote for the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u87	I'll bet you vote 344. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[11:17:35]] For-47
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u88	The decision is not made. Next 353. Don't insist. Well, please, if you insist. Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u89	353 and 354 amendments, they're talking about the same thing. My friends, if we've left an opportunity to terrorize the prosecution's business, let's at least take away the opportunity of the prosecutor's office to terrorize our citizens. Look, we've adopted constitutional reform in the field of justice. We discussed a lot, talked about what the prosecutor’s office should have. We've set it up, we've actually fixed it in the Constitution, and there's been a lot of talk about the prosecutor's office having two functions, it's support for the state's charges in court, and it's procedural guidance. Please tell me, what should the prosecutor's office do in the civil process, which of the interests of the citizens should it defend? This is nonsense and this is absurd. So I ask for part three and part four of article 45 of the Civil Procedure Code to exclude, respectively, part five and part six to consider parts three and four. And in article 45.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u90	I'm betting on a vote of 353. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[11:19:20]] For-47 The decision is not made. 354. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[11:19:38]] For-50 The decision is not made. 356. Don't insist. 357. Don't insist. 357. Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u91	356th and 357th amendments, they partly relate to the questions that I raised earlier, to the public prosecutor's office, so in article 58, part four, we have to rule out, respectively, part five and part six, as parts four and five. At the same time, in article 58, this is the 357th Amendment, which refers to the participation of the prosecutor and the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine in human rights matters. The role of the authorized human rights officer in the civil process must be completed, and the prosecutor, accordingly, must be excluded from the civil process where he is, in principle, not the place. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u92	357. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[11:20:49]] For-53 The decision is not made. 359. Don't insist. 363. Don't insist. 366. Don't insist. 371. Don't insist. 374. He insists. Please, Odarchenko, 374.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! From her. This amendment, it refers to the quality of the committee's work. The committee did not consider almost any of the amendments proposed by the opposition, namely the quality of its work. This is a technical amendment, in the second part of article 60, it's stated that a lawyer can't represent interests in matters that "appear" is what it says. In labour disputes, the word "appear" according to our law should be replaced by the word "appear." I don't understand why the committee refused to correct the technical error in the law of the missing letter. Or is it in order not to change the text that the President has given us that he doesn't want us to do now? We want to change the standards of Ukrainian spelling. The committee is afraid to correct the spelling in the President’s texts. How else can we understand the rejection of such amendments? That's the explanation, please, why the word came out.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u94	374. Anyone who insists on supporting, please vote. [[11:22:35]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 375, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u95	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Lawyers' legal aid will always be more expensive than legal aid is not a lawyer. It is therefore suggested that, apart from labour disputes, lawyers may not participate in consumer rights and housing services. First, this will enable citizens to ensure the participation of the representatives they choose in such matters, and secondly, it will give them the idea that each CHEK and the olenergo will hire lawyers in their debt collection cases, and then charge people for the work of these lawyers. The man was guilty of a thousand dollars for gas, and he would pay 5,000 dollars for the work of a lawyer, as proposed in this law. I propose to support our ruling and not make the service of the court more difficult. Now you're doing everything you can to make the courts available only to the rich and to the common people to refuse to walk forever.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u96	375. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[11:24:08]] For-47 The decision is not taken. 379. Don't insist. 381. Don't insist. 385. Don't insist. 387. Don't insist. 389. Don't insist. 390. Don't insist. 391. 390, Krulko will perform. There's a group of authors. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u97	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, note that this amendment, similar to it, was made by a number of national deputies. What is proposed? It is suggested that the attorney’s credentials as a representative are confirmed not only by trust or by a warrant but also by a legal aid agreement. So the amendment is to add here also the power of attorney or representative to confirm the contract. And this is a established practice when contracts are made to provide legal aid. Therefore, I propose to support this amendment and to complete the corresponding part of the fourth amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u98	390 amendments in favour, please vote. [[11:25:36]] For-51 The decision is not taken. 393. Don't insist. 394. Don't insist. 395. Don't insist. 396. Don't insist. 398. Don't insist. 400. Don't insist. What's that? Fifth. 395th, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u99	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. It is also proposed to add to the terms of office of a representative in a court of law the words "or a contract made." What does the first reading say? "The limitations of a representative's authority to perform certain procedural actions should be warned in the trust or warrant given to him." Well, who in trust or warrant can do things like that? Is this usually the kind of thing that he predicts? Such limitations are provided for in a legal agreement. And that's why there's a suggestion to add to part two of article 65 the word "or in a contract made." And I suggest that the hall supports this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u100	395. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[11:27:03]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 400. Don't insist. 401. Don't insist. 403. Don't insist. 404. Don't insist. 406. Don't insist. 407. Don't insist. 409. Don't insist. 412. Don't insist. 413. Don't insist. 416. Don't insist. 421. Don't insist. 422. Don't insist. 425. Don't insist. 428. Don't insist. 434. Don't insist. 437. Don't insist. 440. Don't insist. 442. Don't insist. 445. Don't insist. 445, Odarchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u101	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we have already pointed out in the draft Economic and Process Code that it is unacceptable to carry out so-called legal expertise. The whole point of the case is the competition of the parties, the plaintiff and the reporter try to convince the judge of their rightfulness. If the party brings legal expertise to the judge, the competition has already been disrupted, for the expert, by drawing his own conclusions, has heard only one side, the other party has been deprived of the opportunity to present his arguments, and the judge will take this conclusion into account as evidence and may make a decision based on it. So we're proposing that civil justice experts be excluded. Dear friends, this is nonsensence in law at all. The judge himself is an expert in law. In the Middle Ages, when judges, judges, bought positions, they needed experts there. Maybe you have them, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u102	Thank you. 445. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:29:14]] For-41 The decision is not made. 446. Don't insist. 447. Don't insist. 448. Don't insist. 451. Don't insist. 455. Don't insist. 456. Don't insist. 459. Don't insist. 461. Don't insist. 465. Don't insist. 467. Don't insist. 472. Don't insist. 72 insists. Please, 472. Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u103	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, I would now like to take a second look at this as an expert in the field of law. Now, imagine, the judge is going to make a decision -- and translate responsibility into some people who are involved as an expert. If your opponent turns out to be someone who will be able to hire this expert, he will pay him for his conclusion, and your case will be solved in his favor. And the judge will say, "Why am I here? I was relying on this legal expert's conclusion." So the involvement of these experts makes it the basis for the abuse of justice. And my amendment, it refers to another. Please vote on the substance of my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u104	472. Whoever supports this, I ask you to identify yourself. [[11:31:00]] For-45 The decision is not made. 474. Don't insist. He insists. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u105	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Of course, it would be desirable for trials to be conducted perfectly: each party presented its evidence in advance, and the court was fast and weighed. But did any of the codex authors hear, have any of the codex writers been in the real civil process, or does he realize that these are courts that decide the fate of people, and that justice is more important than compliance with procedural standards? Would it be good for a grandmother to be evicted only because she fails to give evidence of her rightful residence there? It is therefore suggested that the evidence be provided either in a previous court or before the commencement of the case. The agreement on the possibility of filing evidence only along with the application or the response to a lawsuit is too harsh for the judges, for the courts among the people. We are convinced that this standard needs to be alleviated. Please vote in favour of my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u106	474, please identify yourself. [[11:32:28]] For-42 The decision is not made. 475. 476. 477. 478. 480. 481. 484. 486. 489. 489. Please, Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u107	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. It's actually a technical tool. I'd like to ask part three of the bill to consider part four with further numbering in order. Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u108	489, please identify yourself. [[11:33:17]] For-39 The decision is not made. 490. What's that? They're gone. 491. 496. 4. 497. 498. 499. 499, please. Colleagues, I repeat every paper. Please, just be more careful when you're being corrected, we won't be coming back. Please, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u109	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, five years ago, many of those who are currently fighting for new codes fought against the Yanukovic regime and its draft Criminal Procedure Code. One of the key anti - law mechanisms in the codex was the mechanism for showing someone else’s words. Today, the authors of the new CDC suggest that displays of someone else’s words were considered evidence if they could be supported by other evidence. So a person can give a witness from someone else's words, then a minimum, the smallest evidence is added to such testimony, and the court sees it as evidence. Imagine that as evidence is accepted, a friend of mine told me that Basil took a thousand dollars in debt from Dmitri. There should be no evidence of anyone else’s words. Therefore, I suggest that we accept the appropriate counsel and that we completely deny such a witness.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u110	499. Please make up your mind. [[11:35:01]] For-45 The decision is not made. 501. 502. 503. 507. 510. 511. 512. Please, Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u111	511 repairs. We've already discussed a similar question in the context of the discussion on the Code of Economic Procedure, where it's proposed to limit the parties to the number of questions they might ask the other side. I want to understand what logic is. Why Ten Questions? But let's limit it to two or three. Well, there are completely different things that require a completely different number of questions. As they come out of it in practice, I'll tell you. There will be 20 questions that will be asked and court-martialed. You don't have to limit the side to the number of questions, because that's going to lead to absurdity. In addition, I want you to ask for confirmation also, not for confirmation, for a vote, 464 amendments that specify, in which cases the court may question the need for evidence and collect this function on its own. The absence of a clear law means no law. Such things should be clearly defined. That's why I'm asking you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u112	Mr. Ruslan, I'm just explaining, we're going in the order of the amendments. If we go back, it'll be a disaster. I call every actual time I go. I'm going to make two adjustments. But avoid such things. Okay. 511. Please make up your mind. [[11:36:56]] For-52 The decision is not taken. 464. Please make up your mind. [[11:37:12]] For-51 The decision is not taken. 512. Don't insist. 513. 515. 516. 520. 521. Odarchenko, please, 521.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u113	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, each party should be able to see the truth of the other side's evidence. But this code proposes to allow copies of written evidence to be brought before the court, and the originals to be submitted only if the court decides that this is really necessary. Now imagine how a judge demands the bank's original credit agreement and the person whose signature is forged is forced to pay for other people's debts. It is proposed that a standard be laid down whereby, upon the request of a party, the court is obliged to demand the original written evidence. An examination of a copy may be the basis for many abuses. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support our work and vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u114	521. Please make up your mind. [[11:38:39]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 528. 527. 532. 532 is there? Yes. Please, Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u115	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. This is about changes in article 101 in electronic evidence. I asked for a part of the sixth in this paper to write: "With the electronic evidence contained in public registers, databases on official websites of public authorities, the court is familiarizing itself online with the Internet link provided by the participant. Once informed of such electronic evidence at the request of the court, documents and information contained in public registers, databases on official public authorities websites, may be printed and handed down to the court by a participant in a paper file. No further certification of such a document is required on the part of the participant." Please put this amendment to the vote and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u116	532. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:40:02]] For-46 The decision is not taken. 533, 534, 536. 533, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u117	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we offer our amendment to 533. We propose article 103, which provides for the expert’s conclusion, to be presented in a new edition. And it's our editorial that makes it more possible to write the requirements of the expert's conclusion more clearly. In particular, we very clearly share the expert's written conclusion, the expert's oral conclusion, giving appropriate definitions that need to be understood by the written conclusion that we need to understand from the oral conclusion. And we believe that the text of article 103 that we have proposed with regard to the requirements for the expert's conclusion will allow for a clearer basis for the Civil Procedural Code. So I propose to support this amendment and accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u118	533 lashes. Please make up your mind. [[11:41:41]] For-49 The decision is not made. 547. Don't insist. 549. Don't insist. 551. Don't insist. 554. Don't insist. 556. Don't insist. 556, please, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, once again, we stress that the only one who is given the right to express a position on the content of the law is a judge. No law experts who conclude a request from one party and for the money of that party should influence the court’s decisions. Why do we need judges who need to carry out legal expertise in their decisions? Why do we need judges who do not have the courage to make their own decisions and instead rely on experts? What are these experts, and what are their interests? I propose once again that these references to legal expertise be removed from the Code as evidence. Now we're talking about the fact that the authorities are shaping the courts only for the rich. They are now creating an expert paper where each party will have to pay someone crazy money to give their expertise to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u120	556. Please make up your mind. [[11:43:19]] For-45 The decision is not made. 561. 564. 56. 564, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u121	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, since you've decided that we have judges who are so bad that we can't work out legislation without experts, let's at least make this an expert something at least a little bit decent. You're proposing to assign expertise to determine the analogies of the law and the analogy of the law. I'm sorry, this is definitely not an expert's job. We therefore propose to allow only expertise in foreign regulations and business practices that are not really codified. But giving an expert the right to determine how to apply the law in the case of failures in the law is shifting responsibility from a judge and a parliament to such an expert and destroying the principle of competition of the parties. Dear colleagues, it's very important, let's clean up these experts or reduce their influence. This is actually the destruction of trial c.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u122	564. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:44:53]] For-45 The decision is not made. 567. 570. 572. 576. 585. 588. 590. 590, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u123	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the codex contains a mistake that prevents the court from declaring a recess within one day or until the next. Yes, the Code states that in all cases the time and place of the case should be reported five days before the day of the trial. If the court decides to postpone the trial until the morning of the next day, it will be in violation of this requirement. Therefore, we suggest that in cases where all persons are present in court, the request for a report in five days for the next sitting does not work. I didn’t understand the logic of the rapporteur and the committee head, why our work was not taken into account. Dear colleagues, please vote and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u124	590th, please identify yourself. [[11:46:26]] For-48 The decision is not made. 600th. Don't insist. 601. Don't insist. 603rd. Don't insist. 607th. Don't insist. 610. Don't insist. Six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u125	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the need for evidence, unlike the provision of evidence, is the basic element of every court case. To assume that these actions should be paid separately is to deprive our poor citizens of their access to justice. Imagine a person asking the court to take a statement from the bank from an oblanergo account, a copy of this citizen's request for low quality electricity, and the court says, pay for it first, because without money, the court will do nothing. So I ask you to delete the rules on the payment of evidence, the submission of evidence to the court, this is a duty of the parties that cannot be made conditional on payment by any assembly. Dear Ukrainians, look what the authorities are doing right now, little is there now that the 1,600 bracelet court is going to be every piece of paper in court for a lot of money.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u126	616. Please make up your mind. [[11:48:07]] For-52 The decision is not made. 620. Don't insist. 620. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u127	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, part one of article 136 of the project provides for the complete denial of access to justice for the poor. Yes, the court will have the right to require the plaintiff to put any amount of money into the court's account as an advance for further proceedings. And if a person does not file that amount, his claim will be left without consideration, even if that person is fully entitled. That is, without money, the court will not defend the Ukrainians, without money there will be no justice. So I suggest you delete this rule. The state finances the courts on the basis of citizens’ taxes. Justice is not a paid service available only to the rich. Dear colleagues, such as the perversion of constitutional reform, these slogans that were proclaimed from this rostrum. The authorities are now doing everything they can to ensure that the courts are only accessible to wealthy people. There's no money. Pay up, come out.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u128	620. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:49:37]] For-51 The decision is not made. 622. Don't insist. 623rd. Don't insist. 623rd, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u129	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we suggest we leave the existing standard. If a person demanded an expertship but did not pay for it, this expertise could be cancelled. But to remove the court's demand, to pay, to demand that the court should pay for the examination of the evidence, the call of witnesses, the extermination of documents. Why are you turning the court into a battle of wallets? Why, even in reviewing the evidence, would it be necessary to pay the costs at the expense of the court? Why should we pay for the witness’s challenge? The courts must be accessible to citizens, and you are closing them down and forcing Ukrainians to settle their disputes not in the courts but in the streets. Dear colleagues, well, what nonsense, what disgrace for Ukraine, is already the pay for any step in the court, it was just not dreamt at all of Yanukovic's authority that was before, to make such an inaccessible court.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u130	623 law. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:51:08]] For-49 The decision is not made. 627. 628th. 630. 632.635. Please, 635 Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! We're going back. Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Unit. We go back to the question of the legal definitions or the non-definitions used in the Code. When we're talking about things like security and previous court fees, we see that part of the sixth is provided as a result of non-contribution, that is, leaving a lawsuit without consideration. What does that mean? This means that if you fail to comply with the proper requirements of court and law, your lawsuit will be dismissed. But there's another article, which is the 258. To keep this code completely binding, therefore, we need to introduce a so - called banquet, that is, a responsible norm. And write: in part six, after the words "right" and before the words "leave the lawsuit without consideration," add the words "appropriate to article 258.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u132	635, please. [[11:52:48]] For-50 The decision is not made. 639. 641. 639, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u133	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, a well-known bank has often tried to intimidate customers by making them spend their time working with lawyers on borrowing loans. The bank then claimed that every hour of the lawyer’s work cost them a thousand dollars, and these hours could be several tens. With this new code, such intimidation will work, there is no real limit on the amount of legal aid costs incurred by the one who lost the court. We suggest that the existing limit be maintained for 30 percent of the minimum wage per hour. That's what someone in need of an expensive lawyer pays more. Dear colleagues, imagine the olenergo won the citizen's trial, there, for a thousand dollars, and added to it that he dared to bring another 50 thousand dollars to trial. You want to turn people away.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u134	30 seconds, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u135	I want to comment, that's why. I'm sorry, I want to comment. What is proposed? It is suggested that the costs of the trial should not be borne by the parties to the trial but by all Ukrainians. I mean, put it on the court, on the budget, and on each of us. It is said that God knows who, and he pays a simple Ukrainian, that is, the essence of your amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u136	Thank you. 639, please identify yourself. [[11:54:49]] For-34 The decision is not taken. 641. 641. Please, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, right now these discussions about putting all Ukrainian citizens on top of them are worthless. You're trying to reduce people's access to court, and you're trying to increase the court once again, and now it's 1,000, 600 dollars. At the same time, some single approach to getting rid of this poor citizen does not have to pay half or more wages for filing a suit – it is a lifting burden for most families in Ukraine. So it's suggested that under any circumstances the court can't be more than 3 percent of the defendant's annual income, all the more should rely on the state. If the government has not provided a sufficient level of income, it cannot demand excessive payments. You increase your fees for court proceedings because of various payments, including the court’s fees. Please support mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u138	641, please identify yourself. [[11:56:20]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 650. 651. 651, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u139	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, today's legislation will be. It contains an unfair condition: When you accuse a court of acquittal, you pay 1,600 dollars. If this approval is cancelled, this 1,600 bracelet should be paid to you by the party that loses the case in general. But the ruling of the court is not the result of a party’s actions; it is the result of the court’s activity. And when the approval is lifted, it's not the other side that loses, it's the state that made the illegal decision. It is wrong for an illegal decision to be paid by a party who did not request or support the decision. Therefore, it is suggested that if the illegal adoption is lifted, the judicial assembly will return to the person who complained. Please support our revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u140	651, please identify yourself. [[11:57:45]] For-42 The decision is not taken. 656. 657. 656, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u141	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Not only are you restricting access to court because of such excessive payments, you're setting standards that a judge can remove anyone from court. The Code provides for extensive opportunities for the court to remove the trial participants and their representatives from the courtroom. If the court removes a representative of the parties, this party will be deprived of legal protection. We therefore suggest that if a representative is removed, the court should declare a recess and give the party the opportunity to find another representative. Otherwise, we will see the judiciary in the courts of Ukraine when a person is deprived of legal aid at a critical time of judicial review. This is what Yanukovic did with the help of Kiriev. Did Kiriev help you write all this? This is his wonderful experience you're transferring to the body of the law that you want the Supreme Council to vote for.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u142	656. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:59:14]] For-46 The decision is not taken. 662, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u143	Yuri Odarchenko. 662, well, dear friends, you are now, the Supreme Council, if you vote, at all. In general, it would make it impossible for us to practically bring people to justice. The trial in court will be exotic. You do this in order for people to be obedient to the authorities and to understand that they are slaves and that they have no chance of achieving justice in the courts. This codex proposes the establishment of space - size fines for the smallest violations. Thus, for the untimely filing of a copy of the application, a misappropriation of people’s documents will be fined between 800 and 8,000 dollars. We think it's too big, we're proposing a fine of 160 to a thousand 600 dollars for the first violation. Dear friends, by setting such standards, the authorities today deprive people of the possibility of bringing them to justice, do everything they can to prevent conflicts in the courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u144	662. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:00:46]] For-49 The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, so we know where we're staying. Are you going to insist on 666? That's a bad number. Now it's hers. Let's go through it now and start with the next one. Please, 666. Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, the work you're doing, Mr. Andrew, it's black and bad. And here we have to think about the consequences of what you're doing here with such enthusiasm. Dear colleagues, in our opinion, the imposition of a fine of 8,000 dollars for not giving the opposite side a copy of the appeal is totally unwarranted. Those who have written this claim are so far from everyday court practice, from the real income of people that they simply write down the sums that are obviously less than the cost of lunch for them. Dear colleagues, for the task of minor bodily damage, we have a fine of only 850 dollars, and for the timely dispatch of paper, 8,000 dollars want to be set. This is an inadequate punishment that must be removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u146	666. Whoever supports this, I ask you to identify yourself. Please vote. [[12:02:21]] For-51 The decision is not made. Then, colleagues, not 669. Sir, Odarchenko, 669, right? Then we start after the break, 12:30, 669. Yeah, we're going 669. We were supposed to go through this, her number was bad. At 12.30 p.m., everyone to the hall. And the right-wing authors, Mr. Ivan, Mr. Eutuszek, I ask you to come to me now. And, Mr. Ruslan Sidorovich. Yeah, if you don't mind. Yeah, if you don't mind. And at 12:30, we're going to continue our work, not our easy work, but the work that's needed for the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u147	Time spent for a break is over. Mr. Ruslan, please take up a combat position. And, colleagues, I remind you, we've stopped at Amendment 669. And I give the floor to Odarchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, this amendment again refers to the fact that, on the basis of various payments, you are making legal proceedings not available in Ukraine. For repetitive or systematic violations of procedural standards, authors of the Code offer fines of between 600 and 16,000 dollars. Again, if you compare fines even in criminal proceedings, but notice, here is just how incomparable things are: for beatings and killings – 850 dollars, for abuse of custody rights – a fine of a thousand 700 dollars, for early payment of salary – 3,000 400. And for twice failing to file a document, a fine of 16,000, attention, 16,000 dollars. It's unfair, it's inadequate, it's fines that say to citizens, "Don't go to court, even if you win, you'll spend all your winnings on fines if you're lucky to win." I suggest we cut these amounts.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u149	669, please identify yourself. [[12:35:09]] For-33 The decision is not made. 672. Don't insist. 672, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, this machine that is being shaped by the authorities today, the so-called judicial reform of us, is designed to do everything in order to essentially direct the trial of those who will need it. I am addressing the Ukrainians, each of us will be held hostage to the fact that, according to these laws that will be passed, you will be doomed to lose if you are there politically not to exercise authority, or if your material interests intersect with "loving friends." This codex is also directed against lawyers. Imagine the situation, the court obliges a lawyer to file a document, but the client refuses to give the document, and the lawyer fines 16,000 dollars. We suggest that a lawyer can't be punished for failing to comply with the court's requirements if he can't comply without the client's permission.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u151	672. Please make up your mind. [[12:36:36]] For-36 The decision is not made. 676. Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u152	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, securing a lawsuit is a mechanism that serves only one purpose: to preserve the status quo, to preserve the existing situation until the dispute is resolved. But you're proposing to secure a lawsuit by doing certain things. Attention! Doing certain things. How can this save the status quo? Imagine the court’s obligation, within the framework of a security order, to transfer a certain item, to provide information, to transfer an unknown person to your apartment, and to provide certain services. We have not been able to find cases among Europe’s countries where a lawsuit is secured because of obligations to do certain things. But they found this point in the Russian Federation's GPA. Why do you take the best not in Europe, but in the aggressor country?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u153	676. Please make up your mind. [[12:37:55]] For-32 The decision is not made. 677.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, we are all now adopting, with the possible adoption of these laws, we are balancing on the limits of a measure of tyranny. It's another rule in this law, borrowed by the authors of the code right from the Russian Federation: the right of the court to secure a lawsuit in any way the court deems necessary. Can you imagine what interesting ways our courts will come up with for a certain amount of money? I'll remind you that the lawsuit will take effect immediately. You can't sue a court order. But this accusation does not stop it from being carried out. If this norm is accepted, we will see the prohibition of speaking on the stand of the Supreme Council, the prohibition of voting in a certain way, the obligation to sign a certain treaty, or the transfer of funds. It's unacceptable. Enough to copy the aggressor country's procedural legislation. Let's take the experience of Western countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u155	677. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:39:22]] For-38 The decision is not taken. 682. 680. Please, Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u156	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. This is about article 151, where the procedure for securing a lawsuit is by putting an arrest under arrest. There is a list in this article. There's wages, pensions, scholarships, help, social pay, etc. I ask you to complete this list as well: "It is also not possible to secure a lawsuit by arresting the money in the bank account of a natural person, an entrepreneur, if there are underage children on it and such funds are the only source of his income. Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u157	680. Please make up your mind. [[12:40:24]] For-40 The decision is not taken. 684. 689th. I'll be right back. Yes, 684, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u158	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, an important restriction on the enforcement of a lawsuit should be the inadmissibility of a greater harm than it is. Yes, the court should consider whether it would be possible to restore the right of reply in the event that the applicant was found to be wrong. For example, if the defendant claims that the defendant illegally opened a restaurant on his land, the court will ban the restaurant. Would the defendant be able to reopen if in two years the defendant loses the dispute and turns out that it is not his land or that the defendant is going to make a sub-order agreement? Of course not. It is therefore necessary to establish that judicial measures should not result in irreparable damages for those against whom they are being applied. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u159	684. Please make up your mind. [[12:41:59]] For-38 The decision is not taken. 689. Don't insist. 692. Don't insist. 690. Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, the authors of the CDC project have forgotten to include rules on this and what are the reasons for the application of the suit. At present, the code does not contain standards that the court should be guided by insure, but this increases legal uncertainty and corruption risks. We have tried to unify the world’s best standards in the field of lawsuits and propose that they be included in the codex. These are the standards used in France, Germany, the European Union Court of Justice and the federal courts of the United States. We suggest that we support our proposal and clearly determine the grounds for the lawsuit. Please support our amendment, vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u161	690. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:43:29]] For-34 The decision is not made. 694th. 696. 690. Please, Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u162	692 revisions. In fact, this is a very important amendment. I'm asking everyone to understand what we're talking about. In fact, when we're talking about the law enforcement institute, about the law enforcement institute, it's very important things. However, the article suggests that the court itself may require a person who has applied for a suit to provide compensation for the loss of the defendant that may be caused by a lawsuit. The court cannot understand whether such measures should be taken or not. What's more, in this case, we're talking about the interest of the party. So in this case, we have to replace the words "court may require a person" with the words "party may require the other side." All practices know what it's like to apply the law enforcement institute. And in order to change court-level manipulation of such an institution, more faithfully, such a right must be transferred from trial to trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u163	Say again, please, what's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u164	It's 69.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u165	The other one? 92. Thank you. Please vote. [[12:45:05]] For-39 The decision is not made. The next amendment is 711. Are you insisting? Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u166	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. The code provides for the cancellation of the suit. But there is no basis for such an annulment. It is proposed to establish that the court may cancel enforcement proceedings in cases where they have failed, when the facts referred to have not been confirmed, or if it is established that an action is excessively limited to the rights of persons who are not the defendants in the case. On the other hand, judges will have no idea of what the standards should be when considering applications for annulment. This blurry that you're proposing gives a very serious basis for possible falsifications, abuses, to continue corruption in the courts that it now exists. Please put my vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u167	Please vote. [[12:46:38]] For-38 The decision is not made. Next amendment 724, 725. 24? People's deputy Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u168	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. As far as our amendment is concerned. We move on to 162 articles, which refer to the requirements of a court order. This is a special form of conduct when, in fact, the court issues a court order that, by a special decision without the call of the parties and which does not need execution, is already enforceable. Therefore, there is an offer to apply a court order solely to minor claims. Because it is very common to abuse this right especially in public utilities, and people without any trial will be given a decision and without enforcement have to pay the sums and have no opportunity to defend their rights. Therefore, there is a suggestion to limit the amount of requirements to minor ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u169	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:48:10]] For-41 The decision is not made. Next 725. Please, National Deputy Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u170	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this is exactly what these cases are about when debt is collected for housing services, and this is because of this particular form of court order. We have hundreds of cases all over the country where citizens of Ukraine, without the possibility of defending their right in court, are given court decisions on those unfounded payments, with regard to those tariffs that are totally unsettled to people when they are unable to pay, because these tariffs are totally illegal. So there's a proposal to listen to the logic that we're proposing, and to rule out in general the possibility of collecting debt for housing services through court orders. Let this take place in a court of law with a call from the parties, with a normal decision, and through the executive service. This is going to be legal. So I suggest we rule out part three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u171	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:49:36]] For-46 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 730. They insist. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u172	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, discipline is a form of conduct where there is a minimum amount of circumstances that need to be determined or proved, it must be a matter in which the issue is actually absent. But the authors of the codex suggest that punishment be given in cases where the amount of the lawsuit does not exceed 160,000 dollars, without limiting the contention of the dispute. In fact, this means that banks will be mass filing court orders with the expectation that the debtor will not be able to file an application for revocation of such an order or simply not know what to do. As a result, banks will massively withdraw funds from their customers, including illegally, violating the restrictions that we have adopted here. Therefore, we propose to delete part one, part one, paragraph 6, of article 162.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u173	Please vote. [[12:51:07]] For-37 The decision is not made. 731 revisions. Don't insist. Please, the national deputy of Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u174	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I suggest in article 162 that you apply. From paragraph 6 of Part One, delete the phrase "if the amount of the requirement does not exceed a hundred living minimum for working persons." Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u175	Please vote. [[12:51:51]] For-46 The decision is not made. 736. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u176	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Honorary colleagues, the very idea of a court order is that the court spends little time on its release, and the debtor, after receiving the order, decides that it is more convenient for him to pay the debt or to start a judicial burden in which he is most likely to lose. However, the authors of the codex suggest that the judicial congregation be paid on a general basis on the basis of court orders. Accordingly, the debtor would have no sense of accepting the debt because the amount paid would be the same if the order was paid that if I lost in the normal process. Therefore, we suggest that the judicial congregation should be reduced fourfold for the issuing of a court order, compared with the usual court order. This will reduce the workload of the court and contribute to more undisputed orders. We suggest that we support our amendment in order to make it possible for people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u177	Please vote. [[12:53:18]] For-38 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 738. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u178	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the proposed scheme for issuing court orders is wrong and is contrary to the very idea of orderly conduct. Yes, orders are given in situations where the matter is obvious and there is virtually no dispute between the parties. However, the court cannot refuse a court order when the existence of such a dispute is evident from the documents provided. It is proposed that the Code be supplemented by a rule under which the court refuses to issue a court order if there is a dispute over the law. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u179	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:54:29]] For-37 National deputy of Semimenach, did you insist, please, on what amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u180	Dear colleagues! I want to apologize in advance to you and the chairman that I will not speak in terms of the content of the bill, but I must inform you of the extraordinary event that has just taken place in the city of Kharkiv. During this morning's session of the Kharkiv City Council, the premises were blocked, and the Kharkiv City Council's session hall did not reach the entire Self-Help Union. And not only in the self-help faction, we can have different thoughts, we can argue, we can have different thoughts, but the fact that today it's not just a criminal crime, it's 351 articles "Disturbing the activities of a national MP or a member of the local council," it's actually a criminal return to power in the city of Kharkiv, and it's continuing to usurp power. I immediately request the Head of the Supreme Council to give an appropriate mandate to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to intervene immediately in the situation in the Kharkiv region and to return the law to the city of Kharkiv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u181	Thank you. I point out that we have to speak on the content of the amendments, but in connection with an extraordinary event, I will pass this information on to the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you. We're continuing the discussion. 738, and we've already voted it, yes. 747. Please, National Deputy Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u182	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this is again about the same article, which refers to a special procedure for orderly conduct. We suggest that part three of article 169 be rewritten. What will help if it is accepted. We want to make it more clear in this article that there is a court order that it should be signed by a judge in two copies. In view of the fact that an electronic copy of an order after it has become legally binding by electronic digital signature in court is entered into the Single State Register of Judicial Decisions and the Only State Register of Executive Documents. Since this is a special procedure, I say once again where the parties are not called, where the court's decision does not need enforcement, but is in its essence, I think we have very clearly to write out everything that relates to this particular procedure. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u183	Please vote. [[12:57:26]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Next 759, please National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u184	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Honorary colleagues, when the court issues a court order, the debtor has the right to apply for its cancellation, and the court is obliged to cancel it in all cases, but the debtor has to pay the court. The question arises, Who is it that makes up for this particular judicial congregation, and under what circumstances? Moreover, what exactly does the debtor pay for? He will receive a positive ruling from the court, the court order will be annulled in all cases where the debtor does not accept the debt and requires the cancellation of the order. Where does this judicial congregation go? We suggest that we cancel the court’s request to cancel the court order because it pays incomprehensiblely for what, and withdraws from the party that actually wins the case. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u185	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:59:00]] For-38 The decision is not taken. 763rd, don't insist. 766. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, why do you propose to limit the person’s right to give written explanations to the court? The project’s authors foresee that a person has the right to explain himself only in clearly defined cases. In all other cases, it can be done only with the permission of the court. On the other hand, there may be problems with the parties, and there may be new evidence. How can a person clearly identify his position before a court, including his objections? It is suggested that a person should have the right to submit his written explanations at all times. Always! I mean, when he thinks it's necessary. Please support my order, put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u187	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:00:26]] For-42
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u188	42, no decision taken. 778. 780s. 782. 786. 784th, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, the requirement for the plaintiff to add all the evidence available to him to the application is unfulfilled. What if some of the evidence is objects? How exactly are they added to the application? What if the amount of evidence is a few tens of thousands of pages that may not be needed in the process? If the defendant does not object to certain circumstances, it is suggested that the defendant submits only written and electronic evidence to the court, and that other evidence is mentioned only in the application. It is also necessary to predict that evidence may not be provided if it is impossible to do so for objective reasons. Please, Your Honor, please focus, this is a technical amendment, please vote and support, support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u190	784th, please identify yourself. [[13:02:04]] For-48 The decision is not taken. 785th, Sergey Eutuszek. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u191	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. This is about article 178, where I propose in part seven the phrase "trust or other document that confirms the authorization of the prosecutor's representative" to replace the phrase "appropriate document that confirms the authorization of the prosecutor's representative, in accordance with the requirements set out in article 63 of this Code. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u192	785, please identify yourself. [[13:02:48]] For-39 The decision is not taken. 794. 795. 794, right? Please, Krulko Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u193	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, look at why we are actually proposing that the words relating to "trust or other document" should be replaced by the words "appropriate document confirming the authorization of the defendant or the prosecutor's representative." Why? The point is that this code has already identified all documents, lists of documents that are appropriate for the party to be able to do so. The representative could submit, and they confirmed the authorization of either the prosecutor or the defendant. What's the point of recalculating "trust or other document" if there's a more efficient formulation of "appropriate document" where confidence also goes in, and the warrant goes in, and all the other things that show that it's the right document to have a representative's authorization confirmed in court? That's why I'm proposing. I want us to support this amendment. And by the way, let the committee look creatively, even at those amendments that are not currently supported, but in the future, work on the committee and, really, the things that are right, count in this law. It will be more perfect for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u194	794. Please make up your mind. [[13:04:21]] For-45 The decision is not made. 800th, 801s. 801. Please, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u195	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. This codex provides for an extraordinary bureaucracy of the process and very strict requirements for each document. As a result, situations may arise where, for example, a person takes the witness’s call to court and forgets to give the case number, or the judge’s name. And such concern for the new codex remains uncontested. After that, a person should put up a new problem and resubmit it. And the court has no right to grant a person the right to remove a mistake or not to pay attention to it. We suggest that we note that such formal violations in a written document, if they are and they do not affect the substance of the case, the court has the right to consider this document in essence. We suggest that there be no reason why secretaries, judges, should be able to manipulate these things, to set matters aside for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u196	801, please identify yourself. [[13:05:54]] For-46 The decision is not made. 802nd. 803rd. 803, Odarchenko. 803, yes, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u197	This is mine, Odarchenko, Odarchenko. Mr. Knazevitch is trying to remove us from the discussion. Once again, it's not clear why in the event that there's a flaw in the signature of the application, it comes back immediately without consideration. Why is it that a person does not have time to remedy this flaw, as it is now foretold? This is a very dangerous norm because it creates a prerequisite for corruption. For example, the defendant may pay the secretary for replacing the last page of the suit with the same but without signature, and the application will be returned without consideration. The challenger will never prove that he was filing a page with a signature. Therefore, it is suggested that errors in the formulation of the signature are grounds for leaving the lawsuit motionless, but not for his return without consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u198	803, please identify yourself. [[13:07:23]] For-41 The decision is not made. Yeah, next 813. 816, 819, 821, 822, 823. 819? Eutusek, 819.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u199	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. This is about 188 articles. And I ask you to pay attention to the head of the committee that the Legal Department says that in the 42 legal and regulatory acts, the balance and the inadequacy of each other. So I would ask the words, "A further challenge of such a person, as the answer to the case, is made through an announcement on the official web portal of the Ukrainian judiciary" to replace the sentence "A further challenge of such a person as the answer to the matter in accordance with the order defined in the fourth part of article 129 of this Code." Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u200	819. Please make up your mind. [[13:08:57]] For-42 The decision is not made. 821st, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u201	823rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u202	823rd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u203	823rd. Dear colleagues, the authors of the Codex propose very complex rules for the unification of two different matters. Thus it is predicted that the case is referred to a judge who approved the discovery of conduct earlier. What if they took them out in one day? And that's usually the way it's going to be. It was the judge who first decided to bring matters together. But this actually means the possibility of a race between judges: who will first discover the direction, who will first issue the approval of the unification of cases. We propose to preserve the existing mechanism. The case is referred to a judge who deals with the smallest order number, the oldest of other cases. It's a completely understandable process, an understandable approach. And I think it will give us an opportunity to avoid the many contradictions that may arise. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u204	Please vote. [[13:10:26]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 826. The national deputy of Evtushok.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u205	Oksana Ivanovna, I want to ask you to make an immediate 826 and 895 amendments to the vote. The 826 revision refers to the sending of copies of the acceptance of the discovery of a copy of the application and the documents added to it. I propose that this article be deleted. Article 235, 895 amends, questioning third parties, their representatives as witnesses. I also suggest that article 235 be deleted in my amendment. Please put two amendments to the vote immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u206	Thank you. Please, amendment number, yes, this is 826. Please vote. [[13:11:30.]] For-47 And Amendment 895, that's your amendment too, isn't it? Please put to the vote. [[13:11:50]] For-44 For 44. The previous decision was – 47. The decision is not taken. 839 revisions. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u207	Dear colleagues! Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. There is a procedure in the West that greatly simplifies litigation and allows individuals to resolve their disputes without examining evidence. Its point is that the court will examine whether the defendant can win the dispute if all his claims are proved to be true and all the evidence interpreted in his favor. If the court finds that it is not, it closes the case and does not conduct unnecessary research into evidence that will not change anything at all. A similar procedure is proposed in Ukraine. If the plaintiff does not point to the circumstances and at least theoretically can be the basis for the plea, the court in the previous court may close the proceedings, and the plaintiff will be entitled to appeal. This will prove it already.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u208	Please vote. [[13:13:32]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 858. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, the world standards of mediation predict that any statement made by the participants of the mediation cannot be used against them in a court of law in a situation where mediation does not solve the conflict. It is because the parties can speak freely during meditation that it can be successful. So we suggest that any statement made during the dispute settlement procedure may not be evidence. This is important, in our view, a point that will allow us to develop the process of mediation in Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, pay attention to our amendment and vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u210	Please vote. [[13:14:55]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 865. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u211	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this amendment again refers to the process of mediation. Meditation is a voluntary process that is agreed upon by all its parties. Why do we set hard lines for mediation and ban the court from continuing them? Why, even in a situation where all parties want more time to negotiate, the court is obliged to refuse and proceed to court. We suggest that the dispute settlement process may be continued with the consent of all parties on any agreed date. I do not understand why the committee rejects this amendment and does not allow the parties to find consensus and settle their issues peacefully as a result of the negotiations. Logic didn't get it at all. Dear colleagues, please support our proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u212	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:16:23]] For-40 The decision is not made. 868 revisions. Please, National Deputy Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians watching the broadcast, I understand that, unfortunately, we haven't been able to systematically replace the old Russian terminology used in the procedural codes, but I'm still not leaving any hope that we can at least do something about it in individual codes. So I still insist that in chapter five, the word "peace treaty" be replaced by the words "Conciliation Agreement." Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u214	Please vote. [[13:17:18]] For-52 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 870. Please, National Deputy Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u215	Ruslan Sidorovich, "Unification of Self-Help", 870 amendments relating to article 208 of the Civil Procedure Code. The same problem that we have in the business process and in the administrative judiciary is the same. We have a prescribed procedure for the conclusion of a peace treaty until the time of the court’s decision. We have a predetermined procedure for the conclusion of a peace treaty at the execution stage. But there's still a gap between making a decision and starting an executive course where the parties don't have a mechanism for making a peace treaty. At the same time, practices know that there are often situations in which the respondent, in an effort to resolve the issue, realizes that executive conduct will cause much more damage, is willing to make a peace treaty. What it will be if it continues. At the execution stage, bank accounts are arrested, property arrested. Allow people to end up in peace by the time of the discovery of the executioner.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u216	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:18:49]] For-54 The decision is not made. Amendment No. 875. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, just now colleague Sidorovich raised the perfectly correct logical standard of law and tried to explain his logic and asked the hall to support it. Incomprehensible, she was not supported. My application relates to part three of article 211. It provides for a ban on the conduct of the case after the commencement of the case, in fact, in a number of cases. Thus, the court has no right to stop the conduct of the reconciliation of the marriage. But part seven of article 241 provides that the reconciliation of a marriage can take place at any time before the court goes to the advisory room. So I suggest we remove the contradiction and let it stop running for that reason at any time. The logic was not understood at all because it was an opposition. Why the committee didn't look at them, they're completely simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u218	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:20:18]] For-37 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 876. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u219	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Part three of article 211, which prohibits stopping the conduct of the matter after its initiation, is essentially causing more contradictions than it can bring real benefits. Please tell me what the court should do if an objective case cannot be dealt with before another case is resolved. What if there is a need to search for an answer or to assign an expert? The proposal is to remove this artificial restriction and allow the court to stop the conduct of the cases provided for in the law at any stage of the case. This is perfectly logical, understandable, and necessary for judicial review. It's hard to understand how the committee worked if he didn't even consider such things. Please place, Your Honor, our right to vote and confirm it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u220	Please vote. [[13:21:45]] For-47 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 885. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u221	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. In our view, the prosecutor’s first indiscretion should lead to the transfer of the case regardless of the cause of the nonexistence. A person may have circumstances that hinder the appearance, a lawyer may get into a car jam, and eventually a court order may be received, but it may not be passed on to the person. Therefore, we suggest that we keep a rule under which one lack of knowledge never entails any serious consequences for the person who carried it out, and that one transfer of the matter does not harm the parties. Dear friends, we may ask that you support our correction and rule out the standard that is offered to support us today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u222	Please vote. [[13:23:13]] For-46 The decision is not made. Next 886. Will you comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u224	Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, once again, I propose to preserve the existing practice of delaying a case in the event of the first appearance of a person in court. On the other hand, we will have a large number of appeals before the European Court of Justice to violate the principles of competition when a person has not been physically able to warn the court of the circumstances impeding his presence and the court has still considered his case. In addition, it is important to consider that the court assigns a case without consulting the parties, and so it is very common for a court to assign a case to a person who is already busy to something else that cannot be postponed at all. Therefore, we suggest that we preserve the right to one non-existence before a court of law. Please put our vote to the vote and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u226	Please, vote. [[13:24:34]] For-50 The decision is not made. Next 887. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u227	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. The codex suggests that a person’s renegotiation, even for valid reasons, has led to a review of the matter without his involvement. I mean, if the defendant prevented the defendant's appearance, if there was a flood, if there was a carrier strike, if the defendant was in an accident or had an appendicitis, the case is still being considered and his insubordination is not there, there are no consequences at all for the case being postponed. Dear friends, we suggest we remove this rule. It's a completely illogical requirement, if a person is in a hospital or in a transfer and can't come to court again for good reasons, start to deal with a case without his presence, it's a draconian norm, which in general denies any competition in a court of law and an open court of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u228	Please vote. [[13:26:05]] For-51 The decision is not made. Next, 890 amendment, please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u229	Thank you, Yuri Odarchenko, the Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, there has been a rule for decades that in case of nonexistence for no valid reason a certain person, witnesses who have appeared, may be questioned. But the courts practically do not do so because they fear that the missing person will appear later and will demand that the witness be called back, and this person may question him, ask questions. It is suggested that in the event that a person fails to question the witness called for for a reason, he is not entitled to refer to the situation as a basis for the annulment of the court’s decision. Dear colleagues, in our view, this will result in a certain order of the trial and will be a useful addition to the text of the procedural code. Please support our revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u230	Please vote. [[13:27:36]] For-48 The decision is not made. 891. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u231	Colleagues, each party has the right to ask the other side questions. Why do you suggest in article 228 of the project that questions be handled only with permission from the chairman? "By permission of the chairman" is a quote from the text of the law. What will happen if the chairman decides not to allow questions to be asked? What will happen if the case is considered by a panel of judges and the presiding officer refuses to listen to the question, and other judges do? It is suggested that the parties always have the right to ask each other a question in the appropriate sequence, and the court cannot limit it. You want to reintroduce the process of Al Viszynski in Ukraine, which was with Joseph Stalin. It's very much like you're now not giving people the opportunity to make a comprehensive case and to put out their arguments that they think are necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u232	Please, one minute to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u233	I want to explain, because it's been manipulated by these things several times. However, asking questions is a separate stage of the process, and it can accordingly begin only with the permission of the chairman, like any other stage of the process. If the participants in the process at any stage are without permission by the chairman to ask each other questions and answer them, it's not a process, it's chaos. And the process is primarily order and proper procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u234	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:29:37]] For-41 The decision is not taken. The next 894 revisions. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u235	My colleagues, first of all, manipulate the reporter, because it's written in the draft law clearly: with permission from the chairman. And this refers to any stage of the process. He understands that, and in fact, it's written in very different words. Amendment 894 refers to the following things. Today’s Civil Procedural Code provides for cases where, in order to establish objective truth in the case, the court examines a minor or a minor witness without the presence of the parties. Then he comes back and can ask the witness a question. And the court has the right to temporarily remove this person from the hall again, so that the witness can respond without pressure. But the new CDC does not foresee such a possibility: a child is questioned by a court and then returns to an adult and examines the child on a general basis. It can be dangerous for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u236	Please vote. [[13:31:07]] For-46 The decision is not taken. 895. 96th. 901. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u237	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. In this direction, we suggest that we clarify that in court debates, equal time is given to each party in the case. This time should be distributed among all the representatives acting on the side of that side. They can identify one representative, or each one. Light up a particular aspect of the case, but they all have a common time to speak. Thus, a party with one lawyer and a party with ten lawyers will have the same conditions. In our view, this is a perfectly fair approach. I ask the chairman to put it to a vote and the deputies to support our amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u238	Please vote. [[13:32:29]] For-42
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u239	42, no decision taken. 904th. 905th. Yeah, 3rd. Please, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u240	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, for some unknown reason, have included a rule according to which the court may decide whether the party should decide whether it should speak alone or its representative. What criteria should be governed by the court when making such a request? What is the purpose of such a rule? Actually, that's not clear. Moreover, in fact, the party will not know in advance whether the court will require it, so it will not be able to prepare properly for judicial debate. At the same time, quite a party personally tells the court its position in simple terms, and then the lawyer sums up the legal position, limits the right to speak in a debate in such a arbitrary manner as you suggest, it is not clear. Dear friends, who have ever been to court -- clearly what they're talking about, now they want to limit the right of a person to appear in court. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u241	903rd. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:34:10]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 904th. 905th. 904, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u242	Thank you. Colleagues, today’s codes envision the right of the parties to exchange lines after the debates. In the same code, replics are permitted solely with the permission of the court. We suggest leaving the existing norm, according to which, after the debates, the parties have the right to make a brief statement on the arguments cited by the parties after their presentation. Since the arguments in the debates often cannot be accurately predicted in advance, the replica is the only way for the person to answer the argument of the party she cited in her speech. It is not clear why the exchange of replication is now excluded from the trial. This, in our view, limits the ability of those who will participate in court proceedings to express their opinion clearly and for the judges to understand it. Please put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u243	904. Please make up your mind. [[13:35:41]] For-42 The decision is not made. 909. 909 Sidorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u244	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Unit. The amendment is extremely important. What is the point of this amendment? The article to be introduced is called "Fixing Court Meeting with Technical Means." Part five states that a participant is entitled to receive a copy of the information from a medium for which a technical record is made. Now, honourable citizens, imagine the situation, that is, your fellow national MPs, and I would like your attention. A judicial decision is made either intentionally or unintentionally to determine the rights, obligations, interests of a person who has not been involved. She wants to file an appeal or a cassation complaint, but she won't be able to get to know the transcript because she wasn't a party and she doesn't have access to the documents. That's why we need to expand this circle and give it the right to receive this information.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u245	909. Please make up your mind. [[13:37:12]] For-51 The decision is not made. 911. Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u246	Thank you. Colleagues, the record of a court meeting should allow without listening to the recording, to understand exactly what was going on in the courtroom. It is therefore suggested that the secretary of the protocol necessarily reflect all the problems that have been claimed and the views of the parties. In addition, it is suggested that the Secretary's right to indicate in the minutes any other circumstances that the Secretary believes will be necessary to understand the course of the meeting. For example, note that a certain person left the sitting room or that the court examined some evidence. In our view, such a sense, such a composition, the composition of the protocol will allow the parties to understand more clearly what is going on, and the judiciary will be more honest and transparent. I'd like the deputies to support our amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u247	911, please identify yourself. [[13:38:37]] For-50 The decision is not made. 912, 92. 912th, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u248	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. We suggest allowing the parties to care about the inclusion of certain information in the protocol, which the party believes is critical to a proper understanding of the course of meetings. For example, a party may literally request that the other party answer a question. With the permission of the head of the secretary, such a record should be made. This will allow time to be saved in the Court of Appeal when the judges do not have to listen to the technical record to see if the defendant has really admitted a certain circumstance or if the plaintiff has made it up in his appeal. Dear colleagues, in our view, yes, accepting a vote in favour of such an amendment will allow for a more precise order of the trial. I ask the chairman to put our bill to the vote and the deputies to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u249	912th, right? Please make up your mind. [[13:40:05]] For-51 The decision is not made. 924th. 928th. 924th. Please, Sergey Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u250	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Thank you, Mr. Head. It's short. This is about 252 articles on the court’s obligation to stop the case. I propose that part of the first article 252 be supplemented by paragraph six: "The transferors of the decision of the disqualification to another judge or judge of another court." Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u251	924th. Here we go. [[13:40:58]] For-46 The decision is not made. 928th. 930. 933th. 940. 945th. 947. 947th, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u252	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. At this point, the plaintiff has the right to withdraw the application at any time, resulting in her being left without consideration. The authors of the codex suggest that the application could only be appealed before the proceedings were initiated in substance. But this is contrary to the principle of dissatisfaction of the trial. If the plaintiff wants to call off the lawsuit, he's entitled to it at any time. In addition, the plaintiff may be able to obtain a stay of action without consideration in other ways. For example, after leaving the courtroom without permission of the case or other procedural violations. So we suggest that we leave the possibility of withdrawing the application at any stage of the trial. Mr. Chairman, I ask you to put our vote and the deputies of the Supreme Council to support it with your vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u253	947. Please make up your mind. [[13:42:37]] For-49 The decision is not taken. 953, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u254	Colleagues, the courts now have 5 days to complete the text of the decision. The codex suggests double the term. It turns out that after the court ruling has been declared, the parties will have to wait 10 days for the full text to be received, and only then will the deadline for the appeal begin. This delays the process of handling the case, puts the parties in a situation of legal uncertainty, and generally slows the administration of justice. We suggest that the existing standard of making the full text of the decision be maintained within five days. Please put our vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u255	The prince will explain the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u256	I'd like to see, not the left, but the right column. The committee took into account the amendment of the following five days. What are we discussing? Be careful.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u257	But nevertheless, I'm betting on a vote of 953. Please make up your mind. [[13:44:00]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 966. 967. 970. 974. 970. 979, please, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u258	Colleagues, there is now quite an uncomfortable practice of complaint. If the court has made a decision and has subsequently made an additional decision, the parties have to sue both the main and the additional decisions. Twice by paying the court and writing two separate appeals. There is also a misunderstanding when the main decision has been overturned and no further action has been taken. We would like to point out that in the event that the main decision has been challenged, the Court of Appeal always examines the legality and additional decision and cancels it together with the main decision on the basis that there are appropriate grounds. Dear colleagues, please support our work. I ask the chairman to put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u259	979. Please make up your mind. [[13:45:36]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 980. Odarchenko, 980.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u260	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. We suggest that if the court of appeal annuls the court’s decision, it should also cancel its approval of its clarification, even if it has not been individually charged. Otherwise, there is a misunderstanding of what to do if the court’s decision is overturned and the ruling remains valid? How can the ruling of a court in general exist without a decision? This contradiction must be removed by appropriate correction. I don't understand why the committee didn't want to take into account such a simple, completely technical thing. Please correct this right now, vote in favour of our proposed amendment. I ask the chairman to put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u261	980. Please make up your mind. [[13:46:49]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 991.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u262	991. Odarchenko. We suggest adding to the list of simplified cases, as well as consumer protection issues. In such cases it is highly likely that the party will represent itself or represent a lawyer without the status of a lawyer. Such matters need to be resolved quickly, so let us assume that they are being considered in a simplified and accelerated manner. Now there are so many such things, dear colleagues, we have to simplify people's lives, it can be. Life can be simplified by voting for what we propose. Please put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u263	991. Please make up your mind. [[13:47:59]] For-45 The decision is not made. 997, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u264	Dear colleagues, well, here in the text of the bill is a very strange thing that can lead to very serious consequences for all Ukrainian citizens. A number of disputes with the bank are included in simplified conducts, respected colleagues. As a result of these disputes, they can lose their homes and apartments to all Ukrainian citizens, they'll just stay on the street. We suggest that in the order of simplified conduct it is not possible to consider a case where the outcome of the consideration may be to evict the answer from his home. At first you passed the Private Executives Act, today you want to create a procedure by adopting this bill, when people just don't deserve to leave their apartments if anyone wants to. Conditions are being created for our citizens to be deprived of their homes. Please support our revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u265	997, please identify yourself. [[13:49:25]] For-39 The decision is not made. 998. 1002. 1006. 1010. 1006 Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u266	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We moved on to an article that dealt with the matter in the first place. And I would ask that, Andrew Volodymyrovich, that the amendments 1006 and 1007 be made consistently for confirmation because they are related to each other. What we, the team of authors, are proposing. We suggest that we do not break for a few reasons when conditions may be to make a judgment in absentia and when the court has the right to order such a decision in absentia to make it in one correction. That is, the respondent should be duly informed of the date, time, and place of the court, but never appear in court without valid reasons or without a statement of reasons. Then this paragraph will seem more logical as to when a court can rule on such a judgment in absentia. So what I'm proposing is that 6 and that 7 of the amendments should be put to the vote consistently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u267	1006, please identify yourself. [[13:50:58]] For-45 The decision is not made. 1007. Please make up your mind. [[13:51:16]] For-44 The decision is not made. 1011. 1011. Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u268	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Honorable colleagues, inadvertent decisions are made in cases where the respondent has not appeared before the court for any reason. If agreement is established that the reason for nonexistence was valid, the opposing decision will be overturned by the same judge who ordered it. We suggest that the same judge further examines the matter from the point of view. Thus, there is a procedural economy, when a judge who is already familiar with the case here can be much faster on the subject, he is already familiar with the case and can consider it more quickly now by listening to all the arguments of the answer. Please put our vote to the vote. The MPs have been asked to support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u269	1011. Please make up your mind. [[13:52:39]] For-42 The decision is not made. 1013, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u270	We suggest that the existing standard should be maintained, according to which those responsible for cases in which a judgment has been rendered in absentia must first apply to the court for an appeal, for the annulment of the decision, and for a new case to be considered, and only if he refuses to file an appeal. Thus, there is now considerable time savings, since the court of the first instance is correcting its error, and the Court of Appeal is performing an inequitable function of fully examining the arguments of the answer that he did not give to the court of the first instance, without such a standard of appeal, the observations of the blind decisions will be greatly prolonged and will cause a variety of complications. Please put our bill to the vote, the deputies' request to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u271	1013. Please make up your mind. [[13:54:02]] For-39 The decision is not made. 1039. Captain, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have two amendments for confirmation: Amendments 1018 and 1019. As a member of the European Integration Committee and all the other deputies worked very hard to get visa-free liberalisation to work. One condition was the possibility of actually confiscating assets acquired by illegal means, including connected persons. I don’t know how it happened that the committee at the time of considering these amendments decided that we could now withdraw from our obligations and exclude this rule from the current Civil Procedure Code. I think that's unacceptable to our European colleagues, we can't do that. So please put 1018 and 1019 on confirmation right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u273	1018 amendment, committee requests support, for confirmation, committee requests support, vote. 1018. [[13:55:22]] For-32 The decision is not made. And 1019th, the committee asks for support, we vote. [[13:55:39]] For-38 The decision is not made. 1039. Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u274	Dear colleagues, the code provides that the decision to reveal the bank’s secret is subject to immediate execution. It may be a charge, but by the time the appeal is made, all secrets will be revealed. We suggest a way to reverse such a decision if the Court of Appeal annuls the decision to have access to a bank secret. This information is becoming inadmissible and cannot be used in any way. Please support our amendment, vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u275	1039. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:56:39]] For-45 The decision is not made. 1048. Odarchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u276	Odarchenko, Fatherland. The Code provides that if a person submits an application for annulment of a court order, the order shall be subject to compulsory revocation, regardless of the reasons set out in the application. In the past, however, there have been cases of courts refusing to rescind the order, in violation of the law. Since the court order was not subject to appeal, such decisions would lead to the preservation of force by an illegal court order. We therefore suggest that the Court of Appeal may be charged with refusing the court of first instance to revoke the order. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support our amendments. I ask the chairman to put them to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u277	Both, and 48 and 49, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u278	No, it's just 48. 49, I'll comment separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u279	Okay. 1048, please identify yourself. [[13:58:00]] For-46 The decision is not taken. 1049, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u280	Colleagues, almost all of the world’s civilized countries, limit the possibility of acquittals that do not complete the case. This is true because it does not allow the court to be delayed. But Western experience foresees a situation in which the court of first instance itself allows an accusation to be made of its own acceptance, which does not decide the matter in principle. Indeed, there may be cases where a resolution is contentious, for the judge himself understands it, and all further consideration of the matter depends on it. In such a situation, a wise judge will be allowed to challenge his approval and await the position of the Court of Appeal with a view to allowing him to make a legal and reasonable decision. We suggest that we adopt the relevant Western experience and vote in favour of our amendment. Sir, Andrew, please put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u281	1049, please identify yourself. [[13:59:20]] For-43 The decision is not made. I want to inform you that I am continuing the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the morning plenary session for 15 minutes. For 15 minutes. Next, 1064, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u282	Colleagues, the next day after the deadline for the appeal, the court of the first instance may issue a decision to the party noting that he has gained legal strength and an executive letter to him. Since appeals are now scheduled to be brought directly to the Court of Appeal, there may be situations where the court of first instance will misappeal execution letters without knowing that the court’s decision has already been appealed. We suggest that the Court of Appeal be required on the day of receiving the appeal to provide information to the automated information system so that the court of first instance will know that the decision will not enter into force. In our view, this is a perfectly logical addition to the text of the law, which must be supported. Please put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u283	1064, please identify yourself. [[14:00:57]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 1066, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u284	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, we all understand that the so-called Reform Council simply mechanically copied large portions of these three codes, without being too concerned about the need to re-engineer them for specific justice. Here it is noted that an appeal is brought back if the position of the person who signed it is not indicated. But the CDC, unlike the CDC, does not require the appointment of a person who signs an appeal. This error is caused by the fact that these projects were prepared in an abject manner without careful discussion and editing, such errors in the codex. And for ten more years, Ukrainians who will be forced to use the codes will mention their authors in a very quiet way, if, God forbid, the House will vote for them. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u285	1076, please identify yourself. [[14:02:27]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 1070, Krulko. 1070, Krulko. 74.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u286	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. It's about article 360, "Discovery of Appeals". What do we propose? After the opening of the appeal in the case, the court rules the approval – that is correct, we consider it absolutely appropriate and even necessary to add to the following sentences that the resolution is sent to the complainant and to the parties to the case, which is given a copy of the appeal and the documents added to it. I think it's perfectly logical to add this first part to the second paragraph, and then it becomes clear what happens after the court passed the decision to open the appeal. Please support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u287	1070th, please identify yourself. [[14:03:41]] For-39 The decision is not taken. 1074th, Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u288	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to say that the Criminal Procedure Code has already been adopted in this room, and we see events, respectively, in Odessa, as judges before this Criminal Procedure Code are releasing all the "wankers" and all the others. So I want to point out that there are a lot of references coming now from experts who have already baptized both the Master Codex and others, and the Civil, which we are now discussing as raiders. That's what we, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, are now going to be a committee meeting, very detailed, literally, take a walk, look at all the amendments, they're very good and they're very nice. Make your decision, and tomorrow we will continue the discussion on that subject. With regard to the amendment, please delete Article 362. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u289	1074, please identify yourself. [[14:04:51]] For-41 The decision is not taken. 1076, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u290	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, once again, the codex provides the possibility of falsification. The project proposes that appeals be closed, i.e. a person permanently loses his right to appeal in this case in the event that after the opening of the appeal, an appeal is found not to be signed. Again, at a certain amount of the cost of the last pages of the appeals complaints will be replaced and every petitioner will not be able to prove that his signature on the complaint was not before. If the court has already discovered the conduct, it should not be closed for minor reasons, such as the wrong signature. Let us vote for this amendment and remove such a wide field for abuses that may be in the courts. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support our amendment, and the chairman please put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u291	1076. Please make up your mind. [[14:06:20]] For-41 The decision is not taken. 1077th Sidorovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u292	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self - Help. A very important amendment, in fact, we were talking about the possible abuse of procedural rights, the completion and so on. What do we have today in the proposed edition? We have an indeterminate moment when the Court of Appeal will have the right to close the proceedings if the person whose decision has been challenged has been charged. on which the issue of rights and obligations has not been resolved. Since we propose that such a right be determined solely at the stage of the preparation of an appeal for review. Otherwise, it will have an unlimited period of time, create a situation of legal uncertainty, and create preconditions for abuse of due process law, not by the parties to the trial, but by the college of judges that deals with the case. Therefore, we insist on the need to consider the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u293	1077. Please make up your mind. [[14:07:44]] For-48 The decision is not made. 1087. Odarchenko insists. 86th, Krulko. And then Odarchenko. 86th, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u294	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Here, fellow officers, and I ask the head of the committee, pay attention to a very important matter. This is about what an interview judge is doing in an orderly manner to prepare the case for appeal. What do you write in paragraph 7? You write that because of the concerns of those involved, the issue of the application of a suit is settled. But we're talking about an appeal. Usually, when a case is tried in the first instance, that is where the application of a suit is addressed. That's why we're making an adjustment for what the participants' concerns are about changing the suit's application. Because an appeal is usually requested to change the legal arrangements already in place. It's the right thing to do. And I'm asking you, committee, to pay attention and specify that when you meet the committee again, you're going to take these codes. Thank you. Please support our amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u295	1086. Please make up your mind. [[14:09:11]] For-43 The decision is not made. 1087. Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u296	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, we strongly suggest in the Code that if the court of first instance refused to seek any evidence and the court of appeal found such refusal to be unfounded, it could itself require and investigate it. Otherwise, the appeal will be incomplete, since the parties will not be able to fully restore their rights violated by the illegal actions of the court of first instance. If the judge refused to examine your evidence, you should be able to investigate it during the appeal hearing, otherwise it makes no sense at all. Dear colleagues, if you'd like to support our amendment, please ask the chairman to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u297	1087, please identify yourself. [[14:10:28]] For-42 The decision is not made. 1099. Are you insisting? Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u298	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, there are a very limited number of cases where an appellate court is unable to protect the right of an appellate other than to refer the case to a new hearing. This is true of cases where the case was not considered at all when the judge had no jurisdiction over the case, or when the case contained such defects as itss. It's impossible to see her as such. We suggest allowing a clear list of cases to refer the matter to the first instance. Please support our amendment, please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u299	1099, please identify yourself. [[14:11:34]] For-39 The decision is not made. 1100, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u300	We suggest adding a rule to the code that cannot be invalidated in essence by a court’s decision on grounds of breach of procedural law in the course of the case if these violations could not lead to wrong decisions. In this way minor infringements may be noted by the Court of Appeal, and they may be subject to a separate ruling, but if the decision is correct, it remains in effect. Let me give you a few examples of such violations. For example, the person was warned of a court hearing in two days instead of five days, but the person appeared and the decision was passed on behalf of him. The court did not investigate the evidence, but the appeal found that this evidence did not affect the outcome of the case. Here, canceling the court's decision will be formalism and delaying the trial. Please put our vote to the vote and vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u301	1100. Please make up your mind. [[14:13:01]] For-39 The decision is not made. 1107. Are you insisting? Please, 1107, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u302	Odarchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, it is suggested that this right should be provided for in the Code, if circumstances for closing the case have arisen in the course of an appeal, the decision of the court of first instance does not invalidate what presupposes its illegality. Thus, a clear distinction will be made between the decision overturned because of its wrongfulness and the decision that has become invalid as a result of the change in the circumstances of the case without the fault of the judge who brought it. In the administrative judiciary, this procedure has long been used, and we believe that it needs to be transferred to civilian processes. We think it'll be appropriate. People’s deputies are kindly requested to do so. And I'm asking the chairman to put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u303	1107. Please make up your mind. [[14:14:25]] For-33 The decision is not made. 1110. You insist, don't you? Then let's do two 10s and. 108, right? Okay, 108. Please, Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u304	Dear colleagues, it's a very important thing. We talk a lot about access to justice. We are talking about the need for us to create preconditions in which a person, when referring to a court, will receive a final decision and will not walk for years, sometimes decades, in judicial institutions. What must we do about it? One of these elements is that a court decision should be annulled only if it is wrong on its own merits. That is, if there is a misapplicable norm of material law, if the court has restored the violated right and there is a permissible violation of the territorial jurisdiction, then the decision should be annulled only if there are two moments. It is a misapplication of material standards and the inability of one party to defend their violated rights. Only in the presence of such two points of the decision should the decision be annulled and set aside for further consideration. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-20-m0.u305	1108. I'd like to make up my mind. And now for the final amendment. [[14:16:00]] For-42 The decision is not taken. So we're stopping at 11,10, right? So, colleagues, now a brief message. Fellows, I want to say that in two days we've only been through a little more than half of the right. We have until October 1st to consider pension reform. So, colleagues, tomorrow I'm going to propose again that we work without interruptions so that we can work out the order of the day. And I have a big request and an appeal to the committee today to do the most systematic work on the committee so that tomorrow we can have less review rights. So you can take off a lot of conflict issues while you're on the committee. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the conference room to continue our work. And I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
