ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u1	Vote. Wise. [[B in m in s a l in]] In order not to change the concept, we need a break, and then we vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the registration for the evening session. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're talking. Yes. I'll explain the logic. Look, this bill: it's coming from the heads of factions, then from the deputies. The next bill also has more than 100 positions and is also complete. And that's why I'm asking you, colleagues, to discuss in a concise manner during the discussion so that we can, on this crucial day, when we've set the priority of joining NATO, emphasize by positive and good voting. Yes, Mr. Ruslan? Please prepare for registration. 16.00, and I'm asking you to register with the National Deputies. Please. [[16:01:16]] 358. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. My colleagues, I'll remind you, we've got a section on "Faction Steps." So I'm asking the factions to record a statement from the factions. Please hold the recording. Please. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Buglak Yuri Aleksandrovich. He's handing over the Prince. Knyazevich, I beg your pardon, and I beg your pardon. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] How the speaker decides.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u2	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'll try at least, as always. I want to speak for the faction now. I had the opportunity to take a break as coauthor of the bill and as chairman of the committee. I think I'm going to sound the faction position this time. The faction fully supports the bill that I have introduced, with the "d" badge, given that it is the only bill that properly meets the requirements of the Constitution, which we changed a year ago to part of the status of the Constitutional Court. And the second is the bill, which is the most worked out. Indeed, the foundation of this bill was developed by the Council on Judicial Reform. During the year, prominent experts, lawyers, worked, but then we succeeded, sadly, in failing the bill in the session hall. Now we're trying to sort of align the situation and breathe a new life into this bill by adopting it as a basis. I very much hope that there will be enough votes in the session room in order to continue this progress, we have embarked on genuine reform of the Constitutional Court. If this does not happen, this reform will be halted by the hands of Parliament. And there were many speakers who spoke to the Constitutional Court that he could not properly exercise constitutional justice right now. That may be true, but let us be objective: there is also a great deal of our underwork with you and a corresponding responsibility. Therefore, the session room cannot avoid this infinite responsibility. Friends, if we don't accept this bill, we're not going to run away from this story, we're going to have to go back to it every time, because it's our constitutional duty to implement the amended Constitution to adopt a special, new version of the Constitutional Court Act. In view of these circumstances, I would like to ask you to support this bill. And in turn, not as the author of the bill anymore, but as the chairman of the committee, I promise that in the committee we will work on the second reading in such a way as to take into account the warnings of those factions that have expressed a desire to vote for it. And I very much hope that soon in this session we will have a fully-adopted Constitutional Court Act, which will allow us for the first time to start a genuine selection of new judges of the Constitutional Court and relaunch its work. And second, most importantly, on a new constitutional basis under the new law, the Constitutional Court will exercise those powers, including new powers, which must be exercised for the first time. This is a constitutional complaint, other authorizations. I think it's this law that can guarantee that we can finally see a new Constitutional Court in Ukraine. So on behalf of the faction, please support Bill 6427-d. And the faction, in turn, will support it unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u3	Thank you. Yvchenko gives the word to Sergey Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's about time today. The meeting on 11 April this year was often mentioned by lunchtime, when, including through the active activities of the deputies of the Fatherland faction, we were able to prove the absolute disgracefulness of the previous edition of the Constitutional Court Act. which could be boldly called not by the Constitutional Court Act, but by the law on salaries for judges of the Constitutional Court and other benefits for judges of the Constitutional Court. This is the law that was proposed for 320,000 dollars of wages to be paid to the judges of the Constitutional Court and that was crucial. One of the key. One of the key tasks of this bill. So on April 11th, the Supreme Council did the right thing because, speaking to the committee chairman, they said that because of that decision, they threw a part of the negative out of the bill that we are considering. But I've got Bill 6427-d in my hands, which we're looking at today. He was registered only yesterday. There is no conclusion of the GNEW under him. His committee considered it without having a number on the bill. That is, by violating all possible rules of the Rules, this bill was extended to the session hall, covering up claims for reforms, there was something else. I think the Ukrainian people have seen well the reform of the gas market that you've already done. The Ukrainian people see what you want to do with pension reform. The Ukrainian people will still feel, unfortunately, in themselves if the Law on Medical Reform is passed. But in fact, nothing has really changed in this law. It's not a law, it's not a law, it's not a law, it's not the law of Alekseiv. This is the Law of Peter Aleksiowicz Idustenka, let us speak honestly and openly. This law has absolutely nothing to do with the MPs; this law has nothing to do with the independent Constitutional Court, because the independence of the Constitutional Court is not obtained by the procedures set out in this law. But at the same time, when a group of national deputies introduced a really needed bill on constitutional complaint, registration number 6426, which only dealt with the constitutional complaint that dealt with those issues that were primarily needed by citizens, that law was postponed, that law did not concern any one of the majority in this room. Instead, we are once again offered some corrupt things that have been put into this bill. This is where the elections of the Human Rights Council of Commissioners were again put in place, and today again, the mechanisms of corruption by the President against the judges of the Constitutional Court were put in place, precisely for those judges who supported the usurpation of Yanukovich's authority, who had already passed the laws, already, forgive me, the ruling in favour of the Dustenk in this warehouse. Therefore, we must direct our efforts, first.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u5	Please, 10 seconds. Colleagues, but I'm not going to give you any more time, because we're just not going to be able to make it through the day. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u6	We must direct our forces to the Constitutional Complaint Act and to ensure a quality update of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u7	From the People's Front, Anointed Andrew Vitaliovich. He's giving the word to Leonid to Yemen. Please, Mr. Leonid.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u8	Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, this Parliament is bound by the Ukrainian people, who have chosen to represent the interests of the Ukrainian people in the single legislative body. This Parliament is bound by the right to strike provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. This Parliament is bound by another, directly provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine, right to all - Ukrainian and local referendums. And this Parliament owes the Ukrainian people the right to a constitutional complaint. I would like to remind you that today this right is being usurped by the people's deputies, the President and the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Because only these bodies have the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court to the question of whether the law of the Constitution of Ukraine corresponds to it. And we in this Parliament have recently made changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, which has expanded this possibility and allowed every Ukrainian citizen to ask the Constitutional Court whether it corresponds to the law that ruled on his case, the Constitution of Ukraine, whether a decision could be taken under a law that is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. And today every Ukrainian citizen has the right to know this information and to receive an answer from the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Yes, we have a Constitution that is the norm of direct action. And Ukrainian citizens already have the right to appeal constitutionally to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. But another rule of the Constitution of Ukraine says that we have state bodies operating within and in a manner defined by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. That is why the Law on the Constitutional Court must be defined. The way the Constitutional Court will deal with a constitutional complaint. And this issue was to be settled by the Constitutional Court Act. Regrettably, a number of positions in the law that have no bearing on the constitutional process have arisen in the past consideration of this law. This apparently raised questions and dissatisfaction among the members of the Supreme Council, who unfortunately denied the Ukrainian people the right to appeal constitutionally. Yes, I and the other deputies have proposed a separate mechanism for a constitutional complaint, but unfortunately it will not be effective to the extent that it could be decided by the new Constitutional Court Act. Because considering a constitutional complaint by all the constituents of the Constitutional Court will obviously contribute to the complexity of this process. We need to foresee a procedure and regulations that will simplify the consideration of the constitutional complaint, make it effective. Because these complaints are predicted by not one tenth or even one hundred. And this law, which is now being proposed for consideration, is evidently taking into account the suggestions that the Odarchenka National Deputy has made.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u9	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u10	Obviously, it should be accepted as a basis that has been worked out with all these valuable observations. Obviously, it should leave an exclusive question to the Constitutional Court. And this law must be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u11	Thank you. Pisarenko Valery Volodymyrovich from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u12	Dear colleagues! I want to support all past speakers in one. Whether we want it or not, sooner or later we will have to pass the law, the amendments to the Constitutional Court Act. This is going to be either a new edition or a change. After the reform that took place last year, constitutional reform, we have committed ourselves to making changes to the basic legislative acts governing the judicial system. It's been a year since the changes to the Constitution. And the most important laws have not yet been passed. I'm also talking about the Constitutional Court Act, and the laws that are also in order today are procedural laws. The Constitutional Court Act today really deals with a very important issue. He's launching the mechanism for a constitutional complaint. Today 96 constitutional complaints are before the Constitutional Court. But we saw you and I passing a law that we approved on April 11. And there's a lot of talk about him. I want to warn my colleagues. If the same approach is to passing laws as on April 11th, the result will be the same. We need to discuss what we approve and discuss. We need to find the right and only right path. Because when they stretch, push, and try to get what one or two political forces needs, it's not going to be an active mechanism, it's not going to be a mechanism that's going to work for a long time, because sooner or later it's going to be overturned either by a court decision or by the next law. So I have a proposition for all my colleagues: we need to be very serious about adopting the amendments to the Constitutional Court Act, but we need to do it all together, we need to see where we win with you, and where we lose the society where the judges of the Constitutional Court lose. Because today we have some patterns that all come out and repeat: a lot of pay, someone controls it, and so on. Let's do the only mechanism. What we're going to do today from the Constitutional Court Act in accordance with the years ahead is going to shape the face of our state. We will see if the Constitutional Court can work honestly, openly and independently. We need to build an honest and independent Constitutional Court. That's what I'm calling for, and our faction will be working on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u13	Thank you. Balic Eugene Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u14	Please pass the word to Nemchenko Vassili Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u15	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "Ukrainian Choice – The Right of the People" in "The Opposition Block". Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I'd like to say that with regard to this bill, it's all about the monetary reward of judges and the material and technical provision of judges' work. I want to tell you, my dear colleagues, it's not my quote, it's a quote that everyone already knows that "there is no more selling justice than cheap justice." Here today we were told that everything had been done to get the Constitutional Court to work. I am very sorry to hear these words from the distinguished head of the Legal Policy Committee who introduced this bill, which was declared worthless on April 11. Because of the existing Rules, honourable colleagues, this bill cannot be. may not be brought to the attention of this session. What's not clear? What we saw today. Guys. What we have seen today in medical reform is how the chairman behaved not by breaking his knee, breaking the law and the rules of the Rules. It is my hope that procedures will be followed here, that I have no hope. But this is about the institution for the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms. The status of the Constitutional Court provides for authorization. ensuring the functioning of the Constitution and the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens. So, please tell me, on what basis is this institution formulated, reducing the rights, rights and rights of the Constitutional Court, and how does this relate to 58 articles of the Constitution? It's just a mistreatment of judges, it's just an affront to a society of discrediting and discriminating facts. From this began, a special standard was introduced in the bill under 500,000 wages of the type. We're silent that somewhere on the Iron Road, a million 200, we're silent that geologists get 400, because that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u16	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u17	And that's why I'd like, honourable colleagues, that this bill, it's raw, it can't be considered, all the more so, acceptance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u18	Feldman Alexander Borisovich of the will of the people. So, colleagues, the factions are finished. I will. I'm sorry, yes, there hasn't been a "self-help" or a Radical Party. But in a minute, okay, in a minute. Two minutes, okay. Two minutes, Olena Sotnik. Two minutes, Oleg Lazko. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u19	Thank you. Colleagues, I have to disappoint you, but it's impossible to make any legitimate decision in a legitimate way. I asked the authors of these bills for nothing, and what is happening to us today with the Rules? We're seriously violating it right now because, in fact, a month ago, we rejected a project that's actually being considered in an identical version, but only a few articles have been changed. But that's not the point. Trust is the key. You can pass a thousand laws on the Constitutional Court, but if you don't restore trust in this institution, no law will excuse society's mistrust. That's why I'm asking the lawyers of this bill, who are very much saving for its adoption. I offer you first of all to release for violating the oaths of the two judges of the Constitutional Court of Baulin and Widowishenko, who remain judges today, who have a direct bearing on the decision to usurp power. I suggest you complete the criminal conduct for usurpation of power, and finally bring them to trial for sentencing. And only after confidence in this institution has been restored will we talk about a proper legislative arrangement. As for the complaint. I fully support that a constitutional complaint is a very important tool. Self-help, in order to enable people to address and defend their rights, to implement their constitutional right for a new edition, has prepared an appropriate law along with the Fatherland, and including Leonid Hamts, who has spoken here, we propose, he is included in the agenda, to adopt this law, to allow citizens to appeal to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court Act, to develop legislation and to ensure a legitimate procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u20	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u21	And remember those who helped Yanukovich to usurp power and hold them accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u22	Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, two minutes from the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u23	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team does not vote in favour of the Constitutional Court Act. I want to explain to the Ukrainians why we are not voting for this law. Today, in the Constitutional Court, in the fourth year following the Dignity Revolution, six judges are working, who in 2010 illegally abolished the Constitution, helped Yanukovic to usurp power. These judges are the subject of criminal prosecution of Janukovitch’s capture, yet they continue to administer what is called constitutional justice, serving the present - day authority. And most of all, I have heartache when I see these whores, the bitches in the manti who served Yanukovich, serving today with the same fascination. People with no honor, no conscience, no civic responsibility, and we're asked to give these people 200, 300,000 wages per month, then they'll retire and get 90 percent of their wages. I have a simple question: Why should a working man in the village and in the city get a penny for his salary, and a sales judge who serves the interests of the government should get 200,000. Our team will not support this injustice. And one more thing. The Law on the Constitutional Court in the Final Positions makes changes to the procedure for the election of the Commissioner for Human Rights. Today the authorities want to usurp the influence of this extremely important law-enforcement institution, they want to reverse the voting order by balloting to knock on Parliament, as today, for the so-called medical reform. We parasites won't let you do that!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u24	And, colleagues, from the will of the people, one minute of Molotock and we're moving on to the speeches from the deputies. Please, Deputy Molotock.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u25	Dear Chairman, the honourable ones are present! The will of the people will support this law, it's still imperfect and needs to be refined, and we will normally support it in the first reading. But today I want to address the community, to all citizens, today June 8th was the birth of our countryman, who is three times the Hero of the Soviet Union, John Mikitovich Kožedub, who was born in the village of the Shostkinsky district of the Sumstynia. This outstanding man, whose name is parks and squares and streets. And heroes live, as long as they are remembered, we remember John Mikitovich. I extend my greetings to the village of Obstetrics and to all the inhabitants with such a remarkable holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u26	Thank you. So please record the performances by the national MPs. Any of the national deputies would like to take part in the discussion, please sign up. Please record. Larin Sergey, Lareen Sergey. Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u27	I'm here. Mr. Chairman, it's me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u28	I'll say two things. First thing. Put the card in the remote. The second thing is, there's no Larina's deputy in the hall. You can't come running to me with a note that there's a non-personal vote and you can't sign up for a performance when there's no MP in the room. These are double standards. But I'm going to meet him, and I'm going to give the floor to Germany for the speech. It's just for everyone to see a real moral face and double standards. Please turn on the German. Larina's gone, Larine's checked in, Larina's not in the hall. Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u29	Germany, the Opposition Block. I'm in line to continue the information I've given today, and I would still like to go back to what is behind the fact that in two days three bills regarding the Constitutional Court? Who is behind the introduction of legal nihilism into committee activity? And I wanted to point out that the great lawyer of Ukraine, Leonid Petrovich Eskov, the first head of the Constitutional Court, who stood in the source of the constitutionality of our society, saw how they dealt with this global issue that needs to be addressed, especially the Committee of Legal Policy. Then I'll tell you, he'd be amazed and wouldn't survive. So, unfortunately, our fate today, which rules the ball, not the legal basis, but the merit that governs the ball, is the benefit. And I want to tell you, at the end of the day, the same thing about the Constitutional Court, please pay attention here to the fact that he's running, that he needs to be run, and he's running, he's locked up. They're yelling about criminal cases here, they're yelling about something else, but I'm going to ask you very much, I'm going to ask you very much, let's go into the legal field. Is there a need for the Ukrainian people to have this court functioning, it's 33rd in Europe? And so far, we've beaten him. We are the legislators, we are the state men who are allowing themselves to violate the principle of division of power into legislative, executive and court. And so the introduction of this bill is another step to ensure that justice is destroyed in general, that it is not. Who's it to? Is this Banking or Gruszewski? In any case, it is not for the benefit of the people. We always forget about the people. Honourable Legislators, Honourable Representatives of the Ukrainian People! We are here to meet the goals that our Ukrainian people want. Where are we going? Are we defending their rights? We're simply destroying the institutions of legal protection of society and of citizens as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u30	Semenha Roman Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u31	Please give Sidorovich Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u32	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Unit. Again. Our faction will not vote for this bill. But we need to understand very clearly what is now being considered in the session room. Does Ukraine Need a Constitutional Court? Of course you do. Will Ukraine receive the Constitutional Court by adopting this law? No, it's not. She's going to get a building that says, "Constitutional Court." We have a major problem with trust in the judiciary. But even more seriously, we are being discredited by constitutional justice. The legalization of changes to the Constitution by other decisions, trust in this institution is completely undermined. What must be done to restore trust in this institution? Such rules should be provided for the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court who will be the real guardians of the Basic Law, which protects the most fundamental rights of Ukrainian citizens and the Ukrainian Constitution. Without an adequate competition that can balance the procedure for the election of these judges in the Supreme Council, which is a political body, the President, who is also a political body, there is no point in the judiciary to vote in favour of this law. The next very important thing. Please note who today has the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court in accordance with this bill. This is the President, the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, authorized by human rights. We give even physical persons, praise to God, the opportunity to make a constitutional complaint. Our only organs of local self - government remained orphans. They're uninteresting and nobody needs them. We do not give them the opportunity to appeal to the Constitutional Court and thus place them in totally unequal conditions. The bill also contains a number of other important shortcomings. This is also a transitional element of the regulations that those individuals who have already filed a constitutional complaint guaranteed by the Constitution simply suggest that they return. Therefore, the adoption of the Constitutional Court Act is possible only if we first provide a sufficiently transparent and clear procedure. Secondly, we will ensure the rights of local self-government authorities to defend their interests in the protection of the rights of the Constitution in the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u33	Please give the next word to the National Deputy Abdullin. He's giving the word "Eutushka." Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u34	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Honorable colleagues who have the task of the Ukrainian Parliament to date as they consider the bill on the Constitutional Court? Of course, it is to restore trust first of all to this important body, this great institution. Can we understand that, to this day, such bills, which in turn usurp the power of the President of Ukraine, other subjects of the authority of the central authorities in Ukraine have the right to appoint judges? Of course not. So today we are saying, calling for the adoption of this bill in just one: usurping power in the Constitutional Court, assigning it to five more judges of the Constitutional Court in order to abolish land reform. And we understand that today. Because Fatherland, when we had a U.K. meeting with farmers and decided to go to the Central Electoral Commission to give the Green Light to hold the All-U.S. referendum to ask Ukrainian citizens if they were willing to sell agricultural land, there were pseudo-activists -- sorry! – who have submitted to the Administrative Court, which is also a pocket and is administered by the President's Administration, and have blocked this decision. I also want to say that for today, perhaps there are certain rules for the conduct of the competition, but there is no order as to how judges are to be elected and appointed to this great institution. Today, we can also mention that wherever we are, we clearly have to understand that the substitution of concepts, which is what Ruslan Knyazevich is doing right now, speaking of a constitutional complaint that there is an opportunity in this bill for citizens to go to the Constitutional Court, he also says that this bill prescribes huge wages, i.e. economic activity, special apartments and all the other points where the President's Administration can influence the assignment. I also want to say that my fellow Members of Parliament, namely Sergey Vlasenko, with "self-help" Olena Stotnik, the same Leonid Hamtz, registered Bill 6426, which exclusively refers to a constitutional complaint, instead of in the day-to-day consideration of this issue and this Law is not. This indicates that under these beautiful, bright things about the constitutional complaint, the possibility of a simple Ukrainian court being brought to justice, and the things that may affect the appointment of judges can affect their further opaque activity. So "Paternity" is definitely against such processes, and we're not taking part in such a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u35	Please give the floor to Mrs. Tetjana Yuskovi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, the Radical Party faction certainly understands the need for high-quality judicial reform, but we will not vote in favour of this bill for the following reasons: we cannot do a good thing in this way, we cannot violate the Rules by giving Parliament a bill in the same session, which has already been rejected and corresponds to the content and form of almost everything. This is the first time. Secondly, even with regard to the possibility of citizens of Ukraine to constitutional justice in part of the possibility of submitting a constitutional complaint, the "Final Positions" of the bill have been challenged, since, if it becomes effective, constitutional complaints that have already been filed on the basis of the effectiveness of the Constitution, changes to the Constitution of Ukraine should be returned to these citizens within a month. Under such circumstances, we will not be able to support this bill. Moreover, once again the bill is amended to refer exclusively to one rule: article 208 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, is an attempt to change the procedure for the election of the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the time when it is coming to an end. That is why we insist on quality judicial reform and quality in accordance with the Ukrainian Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u37	Thank you. Storm Igor Mikhailovich, please. Odarchenko now. Odarchenko passed it on to the Dove. Excuse me, Pigeon. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u38	Thank you. Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Dear colleagues, this is the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice saying that he would not want to go through the dark for him on April 11th of this year. But I want to tell the honourable gentleman that he has firmly become two feet on this path. And I explain why. Let's actually start with a bill of so-called great, signed by most of the members of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice 6427-d. Basic Bills 6427 and 6427-1 were introduced into the agenda of the day session on Tuesday, June 6, at 13.30 p.m. The bill was registered only yesterday. Then this bill cannot be considered because it is not even included in the agenda of the day session. That's the first violation that applies. Second offense. Dear colleagues, article 94 of the Law on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine stipulates that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus should not register laws that are required. The subject of this session. Let's move on. Article 107 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure states that they cannot deal with the sessional hall of legislation, which is repeated in substance by a previously rejected bill. Article 100 part two of the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine provides for the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills. If we think, Your Honor Andriy Volodymyrovich, and you have repeatedly stressed today that this is an alternative bill, then the basic bill 6427 was registered on May 4, 2016. The bill was registered only yesterday. In the 14-day term envisioned in part two of article 100, it came to pass on May 18, 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to have respect for yourself, because there is now nothing but the destruction of institutional parliamentaryism in Ukraine. Because it's hard for me to imagine that there would be in another Parliament of a European country that would be so disgraceful about the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And one more thing. There is much to be said about making changes to the Constitution regarding the constitutional complaint. Dear colleagues, let's vote on the bill of Vlasenka, Hamtza and Sotnik, which provides for a constitutional complaint. And we're not going to invent a bicycle, and we're not going to do a crime, because what's going on right now is going to be a crime against Ukrainian parliamentaryism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u39	Thank you. The speeches by the National Deputies have been completed. I just want to point out that Bill 6427-d is a work in progress. Two bills were tabled by the committee, and the committee introduced them. And it's completely in the right profile committee, like he did, and he invited the deputy to look into it. Colleagues, this is the closing statement of the author of the Odarchenka committee, head of the committee, and we will proceed to the vote. So in three or four minutes, we're going to make a decision. And I ask everyone to attend the Hall and the Secretariat of the Supreme Council, and the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall. Please, Odarchenko, close word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u40	Dear friends, it is a sad fact that we are adopting such an important bill, which is the basis of the rule of law in Ukraine at all, with serious violations of the Law of the Rules. I would like to focus on another topic that has been discussed a little bit here in the context of the draft legislation -- the openness of court hearings. The bill proposed by the committee provides for a closed procedure for the consideration of constitutional complaints. Dear colleagues, what is it? A constitutional complaint will be considered as if in such a working order, in a closed manner, a person can in fact know neither the arguments nor the positions of the judge. Our bill proposes the full openness of the court. All cases are dealt with exclusively in open court proceedings. And I don't understand the opponents who are covered by the phrase that the Constitutional Court is such a quasi-sodium, and so they suggest that the cases were dealt with in a cabinet without parties. Dear colleagues, once again, world experience shows that the openness of processes is the greatest guarantee of fair decisions. With regard to workload, the Constitutional Court has the least workload of all courts. And I don't think open debate is going to be a problem for them. Dear friends, with the aim of optimizing the work of the Constitutional Court, we are offered instead of two senators, as stated in the draft majority, to create six judicial colleges, which are three judges in each, who will decide on the issue of opening the case and preparing the case. Constitutional complaints will be handled by colleges consisting of five judges instead of the Senate of nine judges. Constitutional submissions and appeals to the court will be considered in full. Thus, the full court will be able to consider the decisions of the College of Judges. The key element of our project is that the constitutional conduct process is strictly regulated by the internal court document, namely the law. Its participants have rights and responsibilities, there is a procedure for dissuading biased judges, and there is a procedure for providing explanations and providing evidence. Dear colleagues, and finally. Our bill clearly sets out the salary of the Constitutional Court judge at the level of the salary of the national deputy. We think it's a very clear and clear criterion for society. Instead, in order to bribe judges to make illegal decisions, the committee proposes a salary of 120,000 dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u41	Ten seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u42	And a pension of 60,000 dollars. This is in general contrary to the standard of living of Ukrainians today. And when their pension is on the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u43	Thank you. And the closing statement of the chairman of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich. And in two minutes, there will be a vote, and I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for a decision. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, I didn't want to talk about the salary again, but I have to react. Friends, this reminds me of the auction, every speaker comes out, that's 200,000, 300, that's more, a million, 5, 7. Well, read the bill and you'll see clearly the rule that binds us to the Transitional Regulations of the Constitution and the Court of Justice Act, which clearly states that the judges of the Constitutional Court in detention are compared to the judges of the Supreme Court. We're the ones who accepted the Constitution with you. The Fatherland faction, thanks to your vote, we have succeeded in changing the Constitution, and we thank you for that. But let us continue to pursue together the ideas that you have supported with us. That's the first one. The other one. A representative of one faction spoke here and said that there was a need for the authors of the constitutional complaint to return to work on the decision in favour of the bill. The point is that this is a requirement of the Constitution, because the Constitution clearly states that a complaint can only be lodged in a manner defined by the Constitutional Court Act. And in this law, there was a new order that was established, and there was just no new order before that. And because people don't know that there's no law, they just write these complaints in arbitrary form, and they have to be written according to formal signs correctly so that the Constitutional Court doesn't have to beat them down and leave them uncontested. On the contrary, this rule is in the interest of the people, for they will be able to appeal again under the simplified procedure, the court cannot refuse to accept such a complaint and it will preserve their constitutional complaint. Friends, if that's the only thing that gets in the way of voting, I think it's exactly the subject of discussion on the committee for the second reading, where we find an acceptable compromise. I would ask you, however, given Parliament's dual mission in this matter, unanimously, by giving the utmost credit for the adoption in the first reading of this bill, to join in the committee's second reading work, to introduce the remedies that we are going to consider. And I hope that, given our previous experience, we will still be able to achieve that compromise that will enable the adoption of the law as a whole and open the way to change and in this very important queen of law. Legal life. Ukraine. Thank you very much and please support me in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u45	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. The discussion is over. All national deputies please take up their jobs. And what I want to say is that the decision of the committee is that we take the basis of 6427-d united. But first I'm going to put 6427-1 of the Odarchenk People's Deputies in line and then I'm going to put 6427-d. Colleagues, do you understand the logic? The first is Odarchenka 1, and then the committee is going to be "d". Do you understand the logic? I'm going to put them in a sequence of both. So I'm the first to vote on the draft Constitutional Conduct Act (number 6427-1) of the People's Deputies of Odarchenk. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[16:50:54]] For-45 The decision is not taken. We didn't make it. And now I am putting to the vote a unified harmonized bill, which the committee submitted, its committee is introducing as a basis for adoption. And I put to the vote the draft Law on Constitutional Conduct 6,427 MPs, united, coordinated by a committee that the committee asks for a basis, just on a basis, of colleagues. All the revisions we can make to the second reading. Please vote, please support 6427-d, a compromise bill. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:51:56]] For 216 [[Noise Nodes]] I have a call for a non-personal vote by Deputy Kolesnik. Please give me the data. Colleagues, this is 216, no decision taken. I'll put it back once, colleagues. And I'm proposing to go back to the draft Constitutional Conduct Act (6427-d). And I ask you to use only personal voting. Please vote for the return of 6427-d. Please vote. [[16:52:54]] For 217 Colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking you to return to the committee for re-reading, and I'm asking you to support this proposal. I would like to support the proposal to refer the draft Constitutional Conduct Act (6427-d) to the Committee for Re-reading. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let us unite and support, fellow workers, the committee for further work. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:53:42]] For 267 Decision taken. Colleagues, attention, I'm asking for your attention right now. We have a high concentration in the room, and I have a proposal, we have a bill, it's a second reading, it's a draft Energy Efficiency Act. Depending on that law, the material aid for Ukraine depends on the amount, if I'm not mistaken, on 120 million. I ask the room to support the proposal that we now go to the consideration of this bill, it is next, through one. And I ask the Hall to support this proposal, colleagues. I'm asking you to vote and I'm asking you to support me. So, colleagues who would like us to now go to the draft Energy Efficiency Act (5598), please support, please vote. Support, colleagues, he's in one, he's in one. Please vote and please support. Keep it up, fellows. [[16:54:53]] For 226 Decision taken. And I invite you, this is also a second reading, and I invite the head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Safety, to report on the draft Law on the Energy Efficiency Fund (No. 5598). Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u46	Alexy Rybczyn, Fatherland faction, Donetskina, head of the energy efficiency and energy conservation subcommittee. Dear National Fellows! A working group in the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security has worked out proposals by national MPs that have come to the draft Ukrainian Energy Efficiency Fund Act. So your point is a comparative table for the second reading of the text adopted in the first reading. Ukraine’s national deputies received 315 suggestions, either editorially or partially, or in fact 87 were rejected. As a result of the work of the PEC Committee of Ukraine at its meeting on 24 May 2017, it decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Law on the Second reading Energy Efficiency Fund and, in general, as a law approved by the Committee at its meeting, with the possibility of technical legal processing. So yesterday was a meeting of the Committee on Housing and Utilities, which is working on two proposals that are relevant to this bill on energy efficiency of buildings and accounting, and they have come to our committee's address with technical reconciliation, which I also ask you to take into account if the Supreme Council votes for second reading. Please support the draft bill and accept it in second reading and generally as a law. And I can say that this bill will give us the opportunity to engage 120 million euros, which is more than 3 billion dollars of non-refundable aid from the European Union, the European Commission and the German government, which is also an additional source of budget replenishment. Because the fund will work in white and subcontractors engaged in thermo-modernization of housing, will pay taxes in the budget, it's a boost to small and medium-sized business, it's a new job, it's an expansion of opportunities to create and finance the business of OSBB, reduce energy consumption in the country and, most importantly, reduce payments to Ukrainians for utilities. So I propose that we vote for him and move on to the second reading procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u47	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to the amendments, please, colleagues, to adjust. 1st. Ribchin. Don't insist. 2nd. The watermelon. Don't insist. Third. Don't insist on it. Four. Ribchin. Don't insist. 6th. It's a hat. Don't insist. 7th. It's a hat. Don't insist. 19th. The watermelon. Don't insist. 20th. Solvar. Don't insist. 21st. Rosenblatt. Don't insist. 22nd. A boy. Don't insist. 23rd. Belkova. Don't insist. 25th. Babak. Don't insist. 27th. Dove. Don't insist. 28th. The watermelon. Don't insist. 29th. Solvar. Don't insist. 30th. Bogdan. Don't insist. 31st. Rosenblatt. Don't insist. 32nd. It's a hat. Don't insist. 37th. The watermelon. Don't insist. 39th. The watermelon. Don't insist. 40th. It's a hat. Don't insist. 41st. It's a hat. Don't insist. 44th. It's a hat. Don't insist. 46th. The watermelon. Don't insist. 47th. Solvar. Don't insist. 48th. The watermelon. Don't insist. 53rd. Dove. Don't insist. 57th. The watermelon. Don't insist. 58th, Solvar. Don't insist. 60th, Bird. Don't insist. 61st, Belkova. Don't insist. 65th, Demchak. Don't insist. 66th, Bird. Don't insist. 69th, Sazko. Don't insist. 88th, Sazko. Don't insist. 91st, Babak. Don't insist. Yes, we're moving on, dear colleagues, 95th, Babak. Don't insist. 97th, Sazko. Don't insist. 99th, Solvar. Don't insist. 102nd, Lubinets. Don't insist. 103rd, Rosenblatt. Don't insist. 104th, Bilkova. Don't insist. 106th, Lubin. Don't insist. 110th, Sazko. Don't insist. 118th, Sažko. Don't insist. Next: Sažko, 127th, does not insist. 130th, Sazko. Don't insist. 133rd, Sažko. Don't insist. 134th, Sažko. Don't insist. 144th, Belkova. Don't insist. Yes, colleagues of honor, 156th, Sažko. Don't insist. 164th, Sazko. Don't insist. 165th, Lopushanski. Don't insist. 166th, Babak. Don't insist. 167th, Belkova. Don't insist. Let's move on: 189th, Rybchin. Don't insist. 195th, Babak. Don't insist. 196th, Rybchin. Don't insist. 197th, Sažko. Don't insist. 201s, Demchak. Don't insist. 202, Sažko. Don't insist. 203th, Belkova. Don't insist. 216th, Sažko. Don't insist. 218th, Rosenblatt. Don't insist. Babak, 223. Don't insist. 224th, Bilkova. Don't insist. Sažko, 226th. Don't insist. Sazhko, 237th. Don't insist. Boyfriend, 239th. Don't insist. 240th, Sažko. Don't insist. 243, Demczak. Don't insist. 244th, Sažko. Don't insist. 246, don't insist, Babak. 259, Demchak. Don't insist. 261, Belkova. Don't insist. 264th, Lopushanski. Don't insist. Rosenblatt, 267th. Don't insist. Babak, 270. Don't insist. Rybchin, 275. Don't insist. Sažko, 283rd. Don't insist. Sažko, 284th. Don't insist. Rybchin, 292th. Don't insist. Capplin, 295. Don't insist. Lopushian, 302nd. Don't insist. Colleagues, we're approaching the end of the bill. I'm very much asking you to come into the session room. 308th, Demchak. Don't insist. 309, Rybchin. Don't insist. 313, Sažko. Don't insist. It was the last amendment, and all you have to do is thank the committee and the MPs who worked so well for the second reading of the bill and made a consolidated version. Dear colleagues, I ask you to enter the session room, there will now be an extremely important vote in the second reading of the Energy Efficiency Fund Bill, which is part of a package of four bills, which is part of our commitments and cooperation with the European Energy Community and the European Union. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room of all the real reformers and deputies who advocate the energy independence of Ukraine, and we will now vote in favour of this important bill. Mr. Rybchin, I think you may also return to your seat, you want to vote from the rostrum. Okay. Okay, we give Mr. Rybchin one minute's word and we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u48	Thank you. Colleagues, please come into the hall and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u49	Once again, Mr. President, under the transcript that we are going to vote in favour of Law 5598, adopted in second reading and in general as a law in the editorial board approved at the meetings of the Committee with the possibility of technical and legal processing and with technical remedies approved at the meeting of the Committee of ZCG on 8 June 2017, which were approved by our Committee on Fuel and Energy, and I thank you very much for your support. This is a very important law that can unlock the funding that will be put into the budget from the European Union, and that is the money that will go to Ukrainian citizens, the people who have joined together in the union of multi-house owners, will give them the opportunity to cut the payments at the current rates. We vote for the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u50	Thank you, colleagues. Please come into the hall. We finished the discussion. In fact, the committee carried out a very thorough, systematic work. All the amendments have been taken into account, and we have the opportunity to get a positive vote. I'm just asking everyone to take their jobs. We're going to the vote. Please, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Energy Efficiency Act. Minister, help! Help! Please, one minute, Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Zubko, while the deputies enter the hall. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, I am very much asking you to consolidate the hall around this issue -- this is the issue of providing a technical and financial tool to support the implementation of energy efficiency in the country, especially in the multi-story housing sector. This will provide an opportunity to save, practically, the cost of modernizing Ukrainian homes to 50 percent, thus allowing barriers to external support and financing of energy efficiency in the country. And most of all, I want to thank all the MPs who have worked on this bill, who have spent a lot of time investing in their time and their nerves, the experts who have worked, the Council for Support of the Rehabilitation Package of Reforms, the European Union, the partners who have joined in drafting this law, and the main ones that will continue to support both financially and technically the implementation of tools to reduce the energy consumption costs of our consumers. Thank you and I'd like to discuss this with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u52	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Energy Efficiency Act (No. 5598) on second reading and in general with technical law. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Let's vote together. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote! [[17:06:21]] For 278 The law is passed. So, colleagues, let's move on to the next chapter. The second chapter is that we have the first reading. Two laws of first reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't bullshit me! First reading. Read carefully the documents, the material part, please. And we're going to draft the Act amending Chapter I of the Final and Transitional Positions Act of Ukraine (6382). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Colleagues, help us get to the tax policy box. We've been too busy looking into things today. [[17:07:17]] For 168 Thank you. 168 – a.k.a. Decision taken. And the reporter from the committee, and the author, so I'm going to give you three minutes. And I invite the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u53	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, last July, you and I passed a metallurgical law, which we temporarily, for a year, increased the duty on metal scrap from 10 to 30 euros. This was done to reduce the currency deficit of black metals in the internal market in order to provide first-hand protection and infrastructure. During the first 8 months of this metallurgical law, we were able to eliminate the critical raw material deficit by increasing the supply of scrap metal to Ukrainian metallurgy plants by 30 percent, at the same time increasing the budget revenue from the export duty on scrap metal, by one and a half times, by preventing the reduction of over 20,000 jobs in Ukrainian metallurgical enterprises, by saving nearly one and a half billion dollars of the United States of America's foreign exchange revenue from Ukraine's extremely valuable Ukrainian exports. Bill 6382, which we are currently considering with you, continues the increased export duty on scrap metal for another two years. We received numerous letters of support from industry associations, including the League of Defense Enterprises of Ukraine, the Association of Military Weapons Manufacturers, Metallurgprom, the Federation of Metalworks and others. The main scientific and expert office supports the bill as a basis. I would like to stress that this bill fits world practice. China, for example, has more than twice as high export duties per scrap metal — 40 percent. In Kazakhstan, there is a total ban on the export of scrap metal from the country to provide for domestic needs. In general, more than 20 countries around the world have restrictions or prohibitions on the export of scrap metal. I would like to stress separately to our distinguished international partners that this is a temporary increase in the export duty on metal scraps that we are proposing by the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u54	Please, I said three minutes. Turn on one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u55	The temporary increase in the export duty on scrap metal, which Oleg Lášk and I, the Radical Party faction, are proposing to Parliament by our contemporaries, is fully in line with Ukraine's international obligations under the WTO, as it falls under Article XXI of the General Agreement on Tariffs and WTO Trade "Security Exceptions". Immediately after agreeing with the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship of this bill, I asked Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman to hold an official notification of the member states of SOT and SOT and to hold the necessary consultations. This is entirely in line with the procedure established by international law. The direct positive effect on the Ukrainian budget on the operation of this law is over a billion dollars a year. Please support the proposal of the Committee of Jury and Entrepreneurship to adopt this law in the first reading as a basis and as a whole with technical legal work in order to make it Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u56	20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u57	In order for the Ukrainian army to be armed, Ukrainian metallurgy -- with raw materials, with Ukraine -- with work and wages, and the country with taxes and currency revenues. This policy is needed by the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u58	Thank you. Colleagues, I'll explain. The Halasyuk will report both from the committee and as the author, and that's four minutes. I tried to save him, gave him three minutes, but I had to add him to finish his report. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to do the recording right now: two in, two in, against, please. Igor Lapin, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, there is an offer to support this normal bill with a positive vote. And the People's Front also asks everyone to join. Leave your business as a matter of urgency, for we have nothing more important than the adoption of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u60	Evlakhov Anatoly Sergiyyovich, "Block of Peter Dustenka".
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u61	Please pass the word to Yuri Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u62	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Suminity, and Atonement. Dear colleagues, each country in economic development chooses its own course: either to remain a raw country, such as Russia, or to be a country where the final product is produced. For example, like the United States or Germany or the same China. I think that if Ukraine wants to have a good future, then our strategy for developing the Ukrainian economy should definitely be aimed at leaving the country that manufactures exclusively and exports raw materials and moving to the country that manufactures the final product. All I want to do is give you an example of the No-Export of Round Forest Act, which is similar to that law, which increases export duties for metal scraps. These two laws provide tens of thousands of new jobs in the economy today. I therefore call for a general vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u63	Thank you. Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u64	Matvienkov, 57th District, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, the history of the Metal Breaking Act is the history of development and our industry, and the history of Parliament's development and industrial support. We remember all the times when we struggled to practically pull the hatches off the streets, when our ports were almost beaten with scrap metal, when up to 5 to 6 million tons of scrap were taken out of the country each year. At that time, Parliament, regardless of their political views, unanimously defended its own producer and decided to introduce an expert bribe and to stop the divide that had arisen in the country. Each producer first protects its own producer, its own country, its own workplaces, and this is, of course, normal. Unfortunately, so far we have a negative trend in markets. Our exports have dropped from 63 billion to nearly 43 billion in recent years. In the export structure, 45 per cent is agricultural, and this has never been the case. We've always had a basic industry. 10 per cent of the domestic gross product, 25-26 per cent of the foreign exchange income was metallic. To date, therefore, every effort must be made to support this export capacity in order to support its own producer. Besides, it's not just the markets, it's not just what I'm talking about, it's also the social sphere. Metallurgy is a locomotive that can carry repairers, coxochemicals and other basic, so to speak, sectors of our economy. Therefore, I propose that this bill be adopted as a whole so that it can show that we really care about our own producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u65	Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, as they say, good intentions pave the way to hell. In fact, Ukraine has its obligations to the European Union and to the WTO. And that's why this law is a gross interference in the relationship between small and medium-sized business and, let's say, it completely nullifies this market. And this will actually give the big oligarchic factories the ability to dictate their prices for scrap metal. So, unfortunately, I don't think this law can be upheld. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u67	It's from Fatherland, Ivan Kirilenko. In a minute, okay, colleagues? In a minute. Ivan Kirilenko. Kieral, Kieral, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u68	Dear colleagues! Our faction will definitely support this bill. We need to extract ourselves in a drop, to stamp out this demeaning title that Ukraine has -- the raw income. Guys, you don't have to export metal scraps. It's better to make metal, high added value. In his day, the government of Timoshenko and this hall stood in a fierce battle against the exporters of sunflower seeds. We saved the bribe and had at the beginning of the two-thousand one oil processing plant, now tens! And we're exporting not seeds, we're exporting oil. We have billions of dollars in cash, we have something to support our balance of payments, our gold reserves. We have tens of thousands of jobs. These are workplaces, they're exports, not scrap metal, they're exports of metals, they're not metal, they're not metal, they're products. And we must have a strong position in negotiations with our WTO partners. Ukraine is fighting. Ukraine needs metal. Thank you. We will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u69	Thank you. Kiral, please. And then Maria Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u70	The Self-Help faction will also support this bill. But support with a heavy heart. Realizing that we don't export raw materials, we leave it here, we contribute to the development of domestic production. But we also understand who will first benefit from these benefits. Yeah, it's a big business. These are companies owned by Ahmat, Colomoy, and others. And that's why we would also like to encourage this room with the same enthusiasm to support these review initiatives, the analysis of the investment commitments it was making. Did they execute these owners when they were privatized? So let's be consistent, let's also think about people, about the community, and also actively support those legislative initiatives that contribute to the development of both small and medium-sized businesses, as we support big business in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u71	Thank you. Colleagues, now Maria Ionova, to whom I promised the minute. The Radical Party hasn't spoken yet. In two minutes, we're going to make a decision, so I'm going to ask everyone to come to the hall, and in two minutes, we're going to make a decision. Please, Maria Ionova, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u72	On behalf of the Committee on European Integration, I would like to point out that the subject matter of regulation of the bill is covered by international legal obligations, which are defined both by the Association Agreement and by the membership of Ukraine in the WTO, as part of the determination of export (export) tariffs for metal scrap. But this bill sets rates that do not correspond to the size of the rates set by Ukraine’s obligations for that period. Therefore, the adoption of the bill at this stage without such consultations is linked to the risks of new trade insurrections and disputes in relations with the European Union and WTO members, and to Ukraine’s breach of the international obligations they have undertaken. So I would like to ask you not to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u73	Colleagues, a closing statement from the Radical Party. Easy, isn't it? Oleg Easy and let's move on to making a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u74	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. To those who tend not to support national metallurgy. Go to Kamyansk, where the Dniprov metal combination of 15,000 people has been unemployed for 2 months because the company is not working, there is no raw material. At the same time, go to Mariupol, where Austal, where Illicha, or Zaporozhye, where you and I have loaded warehouses and raw materials. We must defend the national interests of Ukraine. The mining and metallurgical complex is the backbone of the Ukrainian industry. Stop turning Ukraine into a raw commodity! Just like a bunch of golops, they're getting married all over the world! Jobs – for Ukrainians, wages – for Ukrainians, the development of domestic metallurgy, domestic industry, domestic economy – guarantee the future of our home country!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u75	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. I am voting on the draft Act amending Chapter I of the Act on the Final and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the Amendment of Certain Laws of Ukraine on the Reduction of the Deficit of Black Metals in the Internal Market (number 6382) at the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general. Please vote, please support with technical law. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:21:29]] For 260 The law is passed. Let's move on to the next law. This is a draft law amending article 97 of the Ukrainian National Police Act on the payment of one-time cash assistance to the police (5,650). Colleagues, the law is short and simple. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please be supportive. Colleagues, support, the law is very simple, but at the same time it is very important. [[17:22:05]] For-164 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Anton Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u76	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people. In 2015 we passed the National Police Act. It is a great system law, but when we adopted it there were many minor errors that needed to be corrected. In 2014 and in the first half of the 15th year, about 1,400 employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs at the time suffered injuries, lost limbs, injuries on the front of the ATO. Because they numbered in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and now a lot of them have moved to the National Police, because of the conflict in legislation between the names of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, a police officer and a member of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, we have a question that about 1,400 people can't get a budget fee that is foreseen for those who have lost their health by protecting our country. There are people who haven't been paid and compensated for more than a year, those who have lost their limbs, their eyes, and so on. I've been talking to Fatherland, Oleg Lachka Radical Party, Peter Poshenko Block, Self-Help, and I'm hearing about the support of this law. Therefore, I would like to vote on the basis as a whole. This is a technical bill that will protect the rights of 1,400 Ukrainian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u77	Thank you. I'm asking you to do a recording, two, two, no. Please. It was a report both from the author and from the committee, it was a report. Kisse Anton Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u78	Dear colleagues! Our parliamentary group supports the proposed bill. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u79	Bondar Mikhailo, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u80	Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency. Please pass the word to Mikola Veliczovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u81	My dear colleagues, I'm calling on you to support this bill, and there's a lot of the guys who went to the front in 2014 and who, now that they're re-testing, can't get any material payments, they're a lot of guys who've been serving in volunteer battalions. "The People's Front" will vote in favour. I call on all deputies to do the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u82	Thank you. Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u83	I urge my colleagues to support the bill. Let's vote together, this is the kind of bill that can unite everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u84	Colleagues, the closing statement will be now, so I very much ask everyone to come to the hall and prepare for the vote. Both the Supreme Council Secretariat and the factions' heads, please invite deputies to the Hall. From the Radical Party Wolf Victor Ivanovich. Passes the word to Linkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u85	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. Our political power in principle supports all the laws that strengthen our defenses that support our military. Those volunteers who went first to protect our country were very often undocumented, without the necessary documents, but they took up arms to protect the country, very many of them still undeclared as participants in the fighting, are not getting help. The fighter of my battalion, where I served, Maxim Klokun, who lost his leg, has not yet received any evidence that he is a part of the fighting, let alone some future benefits. That's why we need to adopt this bill, and we need to adopt all the bills that strengthen the support of our military. I would also like to point out that it is long overdue to address the issue of granting citizenship to volunteers who have foreign citizenship who have served in our country and protected our country. Because many, unfortunately, are now at risk of deportation to countries and, for example, to Russia, where they will be persecuted for it. That's why we're going to support our volunteer soldiers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u86	Thank you, colleagues. The discussion is over, I'm asking you to take up jobs, we're moving on to acceptance. Please, there hasn't been a word from Fatherland. Please, Igor Lucenka. Lucenko's one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u87	Please pass the word to my colleague Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u88	Please turn on the microphone, Sergio Melniczuk, turn on the word. Turn on the microphone. Igor Lucenko gave the word to Melnichuku, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u89	I want to speak to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the councillors of the minister who were just in the rostrum. In June 2014, Alexander Restetniak was killed in the Luhanský SBU. You personally, as an assistant, as a minister's advisor, I address Heratchenk as the wife of the deceased. She hasn't received any compensation yet, she's living in the dark, and only volunteers are helping her. Please pay attention to this and help the family, and acknowledge the person who died, the militiaman who received the certificate, to give him the proper respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u90	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft law amending article 97 of the Ukrainian National Police Act on the payment of one-off cash assistance to the police (No. 5650) for the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:29:04]] For 235 The law is passed. And finally, we're moving on to tax and customs policy, colleagues. And the first question on this block is the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Certain Issues of Import into Customs Territory of Ukraine and Registration of Means of Transport (No. 5624). Colleagues, I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, for short, we vote. [[17:29:42]] For 172 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Gorvat Robert Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u91	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Robert Horvath, Majority District 68, town of Uzhgrad, block of Petra Dustenka. Today, we are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Certain Issues of Import into the Customs Territory of Ukraine and Registration of Means of Transport on Strengthening Adaptation and Graduation in Ukraine of International Environmental Requirements for Transport (No. 5624). The Ukrainian Act of Law on Certain Issues of Import into the Customs Territory of Ukraine and Registration of Means of Transport provides for the gradual introduction of European environmental standards in our country. Last year, Euro-5 came into effect, and since January 1, 2018, the Euro-6 standard has to be in place. The average period between the introduction of a new environmental standard in the EU was 5 years. This is primarily related to ensuring the stability and functioning of the car industry and the transport market. Therefore, the introduction of Euro-6 from the following year will virtually make it impossible to import light cars, trucks, specialty vehicles and ambulances into Ukraine and so on in 2015, leading to a significant increase in cars for our citizens and the transport sector as a whole. Bill No. 5624 proposes to amend the Ukrainian Act on certain import and registration issues into the customs territory of Ukraine and on the possibility of imports into Ukraine of production and registration after 1 January 2018 of vehicles produced in Ukraine or imported into the customs territory of Ukraine by 31 December 2019, including a valid certificate or other certificate of conformity issued in accordance with Ukrainian legislation confirming that the construction of the vehicle complies with environmental standards not below the level of Euro-5. The corresponding introduction of the Euro-6 environmental standard is delayed for two years. The implementation of Bill No. 5624 will allow the production and market of transport equipment to adapt to the phased implementation of environmental safety requirements in our country and the continued import of used transport equipment will ensure stable tax revenues to the State budget around.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u92	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u93	Danny. About 3 billion dollars a year. The bill is supported by the Association for International Road Transporters of Ukraine (ASMAP), since the new environmental standards are virtually impossible to import used trucks. The Budget Committee notes that the adoption of Bill 5624 will have a positive impact on the indicators and will lead to an increase in the income portion of the budget. The Committee on European Integration supports the bill, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine in their conclusions support the adoption of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u94	No, that's enough! Please have a seat. It was a solo performance, my dear colleague. Please, the word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Mrs. Mrs. Nina, may I have your word? Dear colleagues, let's listen to the profile committee now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, dear presiding officer! At its meeting on March 22, 2017, the Tax and Customs Policy Committee reviewed the draft Law. It's small in volume, and it's pretty straightforward in content. The project proposes to postpone the introduction of the Euro-6 environmental safety standard from 1 January 2018 to 1 January 2020. The adoption of this bill will also allow our citizens to purchase cheaper cars in 2010 with the payment of reduced excise taxes during 2018. Today, this issue of the acquisition of used cars is quite sensitive because one year of use of reduced rates will be quite positive for society. The bill, according to the author, supported by the government, is supported by the committee. And at its meeting, the committee recommended the adoption of the bill as a law as a whole. And I would like to request the committee and the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out the technical and legal drafting of the adopted law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote on this bill immediately, because we still have a lot of important things to stand for. So please, I'm asking the hall to focus. And I'm putting a bill to the vote. Do they insist on discussing it? They insist on discussing it. Mr. Victor, if they insist, I'll set up a discussion. You don't have to shout. Please sign up: two for, two for, two for, one for discussion. Please, we're discussing a bill. Please, National Deputy Rybak, I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u97	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u98	Please turn on the microphone, Oksani Sale.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, thousands of Ukrainian carriers await this bill. So I am very much asking everyone to vote for this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u100	Please, Kodola People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u101	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. Our political faction "The People's Front" supports the adoption of this bill on the basis and in general. I think he's sleeping very well with that bill we passed about reducing excise duty. So we vote yes and we call on the entire room to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u102	Thank you. Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u103	Dear citizens of Ukraine! This bill is expected not only by carriers but also by the entire Ukrainian people, who may have been led to poverty. Because in these three to four years of real power, we actually have a level of purchasing power that has fallen very rapidly. The average wage and the average pension don't reach $100, so the purchasing power of the population at a very low level, it just can't afford expensive imported goods as a result of 300 percent devaluation of the bracelet. If there were $8 in 2013 it's now over 26. And of course, this coalition, and we will, of course, help it fix this situation, even though the crumb they're now giving to that population that's not even able to buy expensive cars with the environmental requirements of Euro-6, of course, we're going to support. We will support the proposal to vote on the bill as a whole, but unfortunately this will not increase the purchasing power of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please, and let's go to the vote. And I'm asking for a profile committee. The People's Front faction also made a statement, the Kodol People's Deputy. And since the Fatherland faction, there was no MP, so I'm giving Krulk a minute to the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u105	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, in that socio-economic situation where Ukrainian citizens are involved, this bill is simply necessary. Because this bill will allow citizens to buy a car for their needs at a price that will be raised for it. Of course, we'd like citizens to drive Euro-6 vehicles with higher environmental security, but to do that, we need to raise social standards, so we need to change the economic system in Ukraine. There is a need to increase opportunities for people to form their own businesses and earn their own money in order to be able to buy cars according to the standards that exist today in the European Union. So this two - year extension seems logical. And I think we need to support him today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u106	The position is clear. Dear colleagues, on demand, on the proposal of a more faithful, professional committee, we are putting forward a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Certain Issues of Import into Customs and Registration of Means of Transport" on strengthening adaptation capacity and phase-out in Ukraine of international environmental requirements for transport (Registration No. 5624) on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[17:39:15]] For 243 Thank you, Your Honor. The next bill, 4646 and 4646-1, is to be reported to the Minister of Finance of Daniluk. But according to our information, he is now. It's already here, please. Mr. Secretary, we invite you to the rostrum to present and report to the session room on bills relevant for accounting and financial reporting in Ukraine on the improvement of certain regulations. You're welcome. I'm sorry. We're putting in support right now, thanks for hinting out the proposal for a reduced procedure to consider these two bills. Please support the reduced procedure. [[17:40:38]] For-152.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u107	You're welcome. Decision adopted, 152. Minister of Finance Daniluk Alexander Aleksandrovich is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Law on amending the Ukrainian Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine. The aim of the bill is to bring national accounting legislation into line with the European Union's legislation, increase transparency of financial reporting and improve the investment attractiveness of the national business. The bill provides for the translation of the Ukrainian Accounting and Financial Reporting Act into the provisions of Directive 34, which will create conditions for further implementation of European legislation in Ukraine's legislation. Expanding the application of international financial reporting standards by legislatively consolidating their mandatory application to large enterprises and enterprises that produce beneficial fossils of public value, thus contributing to the investment attractiveness of the national economy. Establishing criteria for the financial reporting of enterprises to micro, small, medium and large enterprises according to the directive. The adoption of the bill will ensure: (1) the harmonization of Ukrainian legislation in the field of accounting with European Union legislation and the fulfilment of Ukraine's obligations under the Association Agreement in the relevant part; (2) the improvement of the quality of financial reporting in Ukraine, which in turn will enable the confidence of national investors and foreign investors in the financial reporting of domestic enterprises. The bill was developed by the Ministry of Finance in cooperation with the World Bank, the deputy corps and experts. Please support the Ukrainian Bill on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u109	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. The report invites the sale of Oxana Petrovna. Is that right? Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, our bill worked on the committee in response. a working group that was created by a committee decision. And he was brought in by MPs, both by the profile committee and by other committees, from different factions and groups. Our bill is much broader, and, most importantly, it is designed to protect taxpayers as much as possible, to protect businesses that are accounted for. In addition to the basic bill, our bill provides for a clarification of the term "first document", which is what all accountants of all enterprises need. Similarly, we have further defined what many years are waiting for, namely to exclude minor shortcomings from the responsibility for accounting irregularities. We recognize, we're reducing the number of enterprises that are of social interest, and we're making the most transparent relations in the fuel and energy sector, just like in the reporting part. We define "pure income from the realization of products." We're clarifying methodological guidelines, that's what we're talking about in different areas of production. Let us clarify the responsibility of the owners of the company for accounting. And we define a clear list of indicators that are to be reflected in accounting. If we accept an editorial on the basis of government, then we will not be able to complete all of these rules with the bill for the second reading without violating the Supreme Council's Rules. That's why I'm asking you to support the MP's bill as an alternative so that we can work out a bill for the second reading without breaking the law with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u111	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Tax and Customs Committee, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u112	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! You've just heard the essence of Bill 4646 and Alternative 4646-1. In support of the entire purpose of the bill, Ukrainian National Deputies, committee members made a number of comments during the committee discussion, particularly with regard to the creation of a report on management by small and medium-sized enterprises, which could complicate the work of the accounting service, since such a report is not part of the financial report. However, the directive contains some mitigating points in these matters. It is therefore appropriate to take into account the position of the directive when adopting the bill in the first reading. There have also been observations about entities that should form consolidated financial reporting, which is regulated by national accounting or international financial reporting standards. According to the MPs, the law should refer to a consolidated report only in accordance with the accounting standards. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has submitted a number of comments to the bills and it is noted that, as a result of the first reading of the bill amending the Ukrainian Accounting and Financial Reporting Act (4646), the bill can be adopted on the basis of comments and suggestions and constructive proposals of the bill (4646-1) when considering the bill for second reading. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting (No.4646), introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, based on and taking into account the proposals supported by the committee. I'll put them under the transcript. In paragraph nine of the bill (registration number 4646), part seven of article 11, which is set out in the new edition, should be supplemented by the following paragraph: “The report on management releases microenterprises and small enterprises”.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u113	Please continue for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u114	Medium-sized enterprises have the right not to report on the management of non-financial information. The other one. In part one article 12, which is presented in the new edition, should be supplemented by the following words: "In accordance with national accounting standards or international financial reporting standards." With regard to the alternative bill 4646-1 that our colleague, Prodan Oksan Petrovna, has just reported, the committee has prepared all the constructive proposals that we have worked with her.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u115	Thank you. Taking into account the second reading, the committee head said that all proposals for an alternative would be made. Colleagues, please record: two in favour, two in favour. And if there was general support, maybe in a concise way, maybe we could consider another bill. We're not gonna make it, are we? All right, then come in. Oksana Sold, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, this bill really needs both the first edition and the second edition is very important for accountants today. The question is whether or not you and I are willing to go to a violation of the Rules. Because, under article 116 of the Rules, the first draft of the bill cannot be made as positive for business as the alternative. So I call for an alternative bill to be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u117	Please welcome me from "self-help" Tooth Lubomir, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u118	Please pass it on to Aunty Ostrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, of course, today's accountant is a strategically important position in any enterprise. It is the accountant who influences financial policy; it is the accountant who determines the financial culture and the culture in general, and the reporting. A modern accountant understands all aspects of social life, he knows a lot of laws, he knows Z, he knows accounting, he works with complex electronic systems, including tax systems. That's why we need to give you a new accountant, a modern one, a new European law that corresponds to the Euro-Directive on Accounting. The bill is absolutely necessary and is expected by many of our Aitish people. Because it's this bill that compares the invoice to the original document. And finally, we don't need any old Soviet props: as a place of composition, a date of composition, which has always been a claim in tax checks, and you couldn't even count the currency or get the currency. But the disadvantages of the bill should be that the proposed criteria for the classification of enterprises as micro, small, medium, and large are not in line with the provisions of the Code of Master. This must be corrected for second reading so that there are no different interpretations in the application of legislation. The law also needs to be reconciled separately with the requirements of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which will add to the publication of the consolidated financial reporting of the enterprise. The bill is proposed by June 1st, whereas the Budget Code is no later than April 1st. Our faction will certainly support this law, which is aimed at implementing the European directive, both governmental and parliamentary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u120	Thank you. Colleagues, closing statement. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. We'll have a vote in two minutes. I ask the heads of factions and the secretariat of the Supreme Council. And now from the Opposition Block, Dudenkov Alexander, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u121	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! It's a shame that these systems actually contribute to tax, accounting, financial accounting bills are last considered in a very short period of time. Because without exaggeration, I want to say that this bill contains a far-off bill. It's got quite a long way to go. Why? First, he introduces additional types of financial reporting. Yes, they are provided for in the directive. But this directive by its standards, by its content, has some alternative positions, it gives the right to choose. That is, the editorial proposed by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine has unfortunately chosen more stringent requirements for taxpayers. I don't know what the Ministry of Finance was running, but as they say, they're representatives of the European community. For my part, I cherish the hope that before the second reading we will really work on this bill. It is very good that the committee has supported those proposals that we have come up with in common that relate to small business regarding the liberalisation of financial reporting. With regard to the criterion, we cannot say that these criteria do not conform to the Master Code, as the previous reporter spoke. Because these criteria are in line with the directive, but unfortunately, these criteria taken by the Ministry of Finance are more stringent because small enterprises may be subject to larger assets, with a larger balance sheet than the Ministry of Finance. But for States members of the European community, it is possible to increase the criteria mentioned. So once again, this is actually going to make financial reporting more difficult, but this is a requirement of the European community. I have a very big request. Work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u122	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u123	Thank you. To finalize the bill, not taking into account the rigid requirements of the directive, but rather the softer requirements that are allowed for those countries that are trying to unify their own.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u124	Thank you. Thus, the discussion is concluded. Now I'm going to put the vote in a step by step: first 4646, he's offered to support the committee, then 4646-1. The committee is asking to support 4646 as a basis. And the committee head promised that all positions 4646-1 would be taken into account in the process of processing the second reading. So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking you to take up jobs. And I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine (for the improvement of certain provisions) (No. 4646) on a basis, colleagues, just as a basis. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:55:15]] For 181 I'm putting in the following bill, an alternative: 4646-1, national deputy sold to Oksana Petrovna. Based on that, isn't it, Nina Petrovna? Yeah? So I'm putting to the vote now the bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine (No. 4646-1) as a basis. Please vote. Please be supportive. The committee also accepts it as a foundation, right? Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:56:09]] For-182 Please, Nina Petrovna, one minute. Give us some advice. Turn on Nina Petrovni Jujanini's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to vote then on your decision to send for work on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u126	Colleagues, can we unite around this decision? Let us unite together in order not to destroy the bill, on the committee for the rereading of the first reading. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall. It's an offer. Let Victor Pinzenic make the offer. Are we working? Please, Victor Pinzenik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u127	Dear colleagues, if we send two drafts for re-examination, we will again have a problem in the voting room. So I have this proposal: to send one to the committee and a harmonized bill for consideration by the Supreme Council. Find a joint position of the authors and then there will be no problem voting in the room. I'm asking you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u128	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's unite around the proposal to send the committee to read again. Don't come out, fellows! Please, let's vote. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on a draft bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine (for the improvement of certain provisions) (4646 and 4646-1) to send to the committee for a re-reading. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. This is a compromise proposal: two bills per committee for further development. Colleagues, let's back up, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Let's work together so we don't lose the bill. [[17:58:10]] For-198 The last is the subject of a legislative initiative. Is there a principle position? Let us support the subject of the legislative initiative. Colleagues, I'm going to make this proposal right now, let's support it. So I'm going to put the last one on the vote. I very much ask that the hall unite so that we do not lose the bills of both of us. And I'm voting that Bills 4646 and 4646-1 be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. I'm asking you to vote and I'm asking you to support me. Support us, colleagues, so that we do not lose the bill, the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. Please vote, please support. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:59:10]] For 211 Colleagues, we have one more minute. Please, 30 seconds, Nina Petrovna. Please turn on the microphone of Yuzanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u129	Dear colleagues! I ask you to return to the vote and send two bills to the committee. We already have a fully developed version with all the amendments and with the suggestions that are in the alternative. In addition, we have developed many standards to make them softer for use by our business subjects. If we lose now, in general, this law we'll be waiting six months for it from the government after it's finished. That's not possible at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u130	Colleagues, there's a big request for a committee to work on. Alexandra! Turn on the microphone again if it adds votes, please, Alexander Kugel. And stay in your seats, stay in your seats, colleagues, please. Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u131	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, thank you. But what I'm saying is that this is the reason why we vote on the position of the Southern Committee. Unfortunately, it's already become a culture to adopt a bill of any kind, and on second reading, to introduce articles that are not in the first reading. I was at the committee on these bills. The Oxana Prodan bill, where I'm in this group, is more professional. And Minfin fell asleep while working with the people. But just because it's government, the committee has decided to support the government, but on second reading, we'll take it all into account. If we follow the rules, we will have no such situation. We will vote for better laws, not for the government. Prepare, work, and sleep.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m1.u132	Do you support the committee for further work, Mrs. Alexandro? Do you support the committee for back-up work? Two, yes, two. So, colleagues, we found a compromise position. Please take up jobs, take up jobs. I'm going to put it to a vote. And I'm voting on the proposal that the two bills, the 4646, and the 4646-1, be sent to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. This is a united common offer. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Let's support it. Let's finish the day well. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[18:01:57]] For 225 One more time, one more time. Guys, take your seats. I'm going to go back to this proposal first. Please, colleagues, one vote. I'm voting on the proposal to return to draft laws 4646 and 4646-1. Vote, colleagues, please, every voice matters. Vote. Please be supportive. [[6:02:29]] For 233 Decision taken. And now 4646 and 4646-1 to re-read the first reading to return to the committee. Colleagues. For work, yes. I'm working on a committee. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support everyone. Please vote. [[18:02:59]] For 226 Decision taken. I want to be successful at work. Today has been a difficult and unforgivable day, but we have made many important decisions, particularly the strategic orientation of NATO. And thank you to all your colleagues for their active, productive work in the hall today. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall to continue our work. Thank you. Good-bye.
