ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u1	National deputies, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. May I have the deputies in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u2	Are you ready for your registration? Can we register? Dear colleagues, I'd like you to conduct an enrollment. Please. [[10:06:05]] 343 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today the birthday of our colleagues, Grigori Mikhailovich Nemiri, we welcome as well as Yuri Vitaliovich Odarchenka. Let's welcome our colleagues. [[Applause]] Also, friends, on this day of April 5, the first Ukrainian Constitution of Philip Orlik was adopted at the Cossack Congregation near the town of Tajina, on the right bank of the Dniester River. This is an important event for Ukrainian history. And especially today, I would like to welcome everyone to the day of the revival of the Ukrainian Navy. 25 years ago on April 5, 1990, thanks to the initiative of Ukrainian patriots, Black Sea officers were reinstated by the Ukrainian Navy, a continuation of the glorious traditions of the Ukrainian People's Republic army. As in the 18th year, it was with the knowing officers and the elders on the ships that Ukrainian flags and luvers were raised. And despite the fierce opposition of Russia, the Ukrainian military fleet took place. Colleagues, in the Supreme Council today there are participants in the events of the 92nd year, which led to the formation of the Ukrainian Navy 25 years ago. They're in bed, here, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] Like 100 years ago, today it is the Ukrainian army that the Ukrainian Navy is loyally defending the Ukrainian state. The modern-day Ukrainian Navy is the cadets who sang our national anthem in the occupied Crimea, and they are now officers of the Ukrainian army, our Marines, who, on the most difficult parts of the eastern front, give a worthy return to the enemy, are thousands of officers, seniors and sailors who carry out their most difficult military duties each day, are on the watch of the Ukrainian border of the sea. Glory to the naval forces of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine! Colleagues, today, according to article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes to make speeches by national deputies. I would like to stress, from the national MPs, not factions and groups. And so if a faction or a group doesn't fall into the list of speakers, it doesn't mean they have to be given the word. Therefore, I ask you to prepare yourself carefully for the recording and to record the performances by the national deputies. Please. Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u3	Please pass Borislav to Bereza.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u4	I want to speak to the Supreme Council on the grounds that, Your Honor, we're all working in Kiev right now. Everyone knows that now with the roads of Kiev. Everyone knows that now with the bridges of Kiev. Everyone sees a watermelon that doesn't work, and when it rains, Kiev floods, Kiev sinks. But we all realize that this is because Kiev is not doing the right thing. For example, one of the areas I represent in the Supreme Council is the Righteous District, where there is no head of the district. There is a U.S., but this is Mr. Crohmaluk, none other than a corrupter who is still working for his former boss, Onufrychuk, two people who are disrupting the area. And I want you all to know what's going on in Kiev right now. A few areas have no heads, a few areas are out of control, there's a dumpster, there's nothing going on if the situation doesn't change. Why does this happen? Because there are a few other questions in Kiev right now. For example, the mayor of Kiev is very focused on the Euroworking pianist. But this Euroworking will pass, and Kiev will remain, Kiev will remain in the position that it is now. I want to address the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, and the Mayor of Kiev, Vitalia Klick. Ladies and gentlemen, please appoint the head of the right-wing administration. The area cannot be without its head because there is no one responsible for the area. What's going on in the Trinity now is completely unpleasant for anyone. I understand that we can make tours of tourists who will come to Europrice to see what's happening to the area right now. If that's what you want, please. If you want to continue destroying the city, I don't know why. Do you not understand what will happen next? Do you not realize that the Chinese are already living in discomfort? So once again, I very much implore Mayor Kiev and the President of Ukraine to deal with Kiev and to appoint the head of the area that they should choose. I will be grateful for this because one of Kiev’s greatest regions, where some 600,000 people live, cannot be without their heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u5	Semenha Roman Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u6	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! The war came to Balaklia, which is what they call the disaster, a tragedy that occurred in the peaceful city of Balaklia, Kharkishte, about 150 kilometers [150 km] from the front line. As a result of the tragedy that occurred, one person was seriously injured, some 90 families were homeless, and hundreds of families suffered extensive damage inside the home. During the war, the State must defend its sovereignty, and during such a tragedy, the State must help people to protect, compensate for, and provide for, all the damage that is needed — the restoration of their homes, the acquisition of new housing. Even now, however, it is clear that the hundred million dollars the government has allocated and the ten million dollars allocated by the Kharkiv District Council are not enough. And after meeting people, there's a lot of questions, the first thing that's going to be done is the damage caused by the inside damage, the damage to the private sector, the damage to the buildings that are not the city's municipal property. How they're going to compensate for the damage to small and medium-sized businesses, because it's a base in a small town, and as a power, it's finally going to give people new housing, because obviously some people won't be able to go back to their homes. For example, I want to thank those volunteers and all the people in Ukraine who have responded and are helping the people in the city of Balaklia. The other one. Obviously, the State has not made any systematic conclusions from similar tragedies — in Novogoddanovka, in Svatovo, in Lozov, in the same Kharkiv region. Once the investigation is not over, we can safely say that the first source of the problem is the total, criminal negligence of the Department of Defense. It's all a total simulation: simulation of object protection, simulation of investigation, simulation of the attraction to responsibility. I think that this case should consolidate us and make appropriate legislative changes to enable the Supreme Council to finally enable real civilian control of the activities and effectiveness of the Ministry of Defence. We need you to put in place real parliamentary control over the activities of the Ministry of Defence, on the efficiency of using the budget in the Ministry of Defence. Therefore, the state must bring the guilty to justice, and the people of Balaklia must restore peace and make amends without exception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u7	I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Jehora Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u8	People will not consider our work effective until they see top-corruption workers in prison, see them behind bars, and see their property confiscated. The Anti-Corruption Bureau, which was created according to what was adopted, including us, by legislation, puts top-corruptioners before the investigation. Everyone in the country knows about Ohendowski's case, everyone in the country knows about Nasirov's case, everyone in the country knows about the case of Deputy Onishchenka, who played a key role in the theft of the Ukrainian company Crushing. Detectives of the Anti-Corruption Bureau are now approaching decisions on the case of Mikola Martinenko, a key associate of Arsenius Yacenuk, and in the case of the National Bank, where no misuse of refinancing, to support individual commercial banks leads to the leadership of the NBA. An important question arises to which we must answer: Who will render judgment in these matters? I want to give you two examples. Minister Ivaras Abromavichus, who had long retired, testified that he had been pressured to appoint leaders, dependent heads of state enterprises. This case was investigated by the Anticorruption Bureau and brought to trial last May. Since then, no court proceedings have been held. It's a different story. For the first time in Ukraine’s history, the Anticorruption Office, along with the Anticorruption Prosecutor’s Office, has brought charges of illegal enrichment. This is a prosecutor from the ATO area of Constantine Kulika. The case was referred to the court last October. Since then, there has been no court proceedings. My colleagues and I have suggested how we can overcome this sabotage, how we can start sending corrupters to play. It's about creating a specialized anti-corruption court, which we propose to make completely independent of today's judicial system, which is impressed by corruption and which we propose to involve the governments of the United States, the European Union, the United Kingdom. Once we have at least one, indeed, independent court, society will see what it's supposed to see -- top corruption verdicts, special confiscation of their property. And then the citizens will say, "Okay. You've passed good laws, we see that they work."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u9	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the National Deputy Irina Konstankević.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Vitalia Cooperia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u11	Please, National Deputy Vitaly Cupray.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, recently, society was shocked to learn that there was an attempt to return to its post as former Henprocuror Victor Shokin. It's the same prosecutor who didn't do anything to hold the killers of the 100th Heavens killers responsible for corruption inside the Attorney General's Office who failed the reform of the Attorney General's Office. Now, as my deputy head of the profile committee, this news not only shocks me, but it encourages me and pushes me into action. I just got a full version of Mr. Shokin's lawsuit, and I want to let you know what's going on. One of the reasons why Shockin wants to come back and considers it illegal to accept the Supreme Council's decision to grant his release was the so - called buttonage. Shocking points to four cases of MPs who voted without being in their seats. But this question, if we see that almost 290 deputies voted for all of this, has absolutely no effect on the outcome even if it is confirmed in court. On the other hand, Shockin makes absolutely absurd demands that the Supreme Council order should be repealed, because it was not written in the text, that the discharge takes place according to his consent. At least I'll say yes. About the release he wrote himself, and she was involved in the material of the case. Also, Mr. Shockin points out that he was mentally pressured, severely pressured by the President of Ukraine, and demanded his release. I wanted to remind Mr. Shokin that he was being pressured by the entire Ukrainian community, what he created, you know, it left no one indifferent. What's more, Mr. Shockin has come to the point that he's accusing the lawsuit that U.S. Vice President Biden has personally interfered with the state affairs of Ukraine and has put pressure on him, and that's a violation of his rights. That's what I can't say. My job right now is to get this information to you, ask the MPs to take part in the trial, which will take place on April 10th at the Moscow Supreme Administrative Court, 8 p.m. at 3:30 p.m. I also call on Andria to take a firm stand in order to resist the return of this passage to office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u13	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of National Deputy Vitali Kulinić, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u14	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I'd like to talk about an extremely important problem that exists today in the state, which is the quality of our roads. I represent Poltavian in Parliament and I know very well the situation with the roads in the Poltavian region. First, the area is one of the largest oil and gas industries in the world. And as a result of the mining industry, roads crash, and sometimes they just don't exist. Secondly, our area is one of the largest agrarian areas. And so as a result of transporting grains, roads also come into a difficult state, they just collapse. We talk a lot about reforms, such as education reforms, health reforms, we talk about decentralization, but no reforms will move until we get along with our roads. Here's a fresh example, these are the Widows of the Zynkowski region. Last week, I organized a trip for the children to the district center. And the children drove about an hour 10 kilometers away because there is no road. Health reform is now under way in the area of hospitalization. But what will be the reform if we do not put the road in order? For example, the village of the Great Footwear in Mortician. "Quick" went there for almost an hour, and doctors and doctors warned that the next time they would not get there. And at the same time, there's absolutely no bus to this neighborhood, because it's impossible to drive because there's no road. If we do not put the road in order, I repeat, there will be no reform in education or in health care. Because when we create resilient schools, we take the children from the village to the district center, and if there's nothing to drive them for, how are we going to do it? This year, 165 million dollars have been allocated to the Poltav region of the state budget, and this is only a matter of pit repair. I'm not talking about maintenance anymore. I'm talking about capital repairs. So local budgets, for example, in my district are willing to co-finance these jobs and road services. For example, the Zynkovsky region is ready to allocate 8 million dollars, and Morgrodščina is ready to provide 20 million dollars on a cofinancing basis. But even under such conditions, if we co-finance with the areas, the cost of the current repairs in the service of the highways of the area is simply not enough, so we did these calculations. So the government needs to review the area's funding for 2017. I ask you to consider my statement as a request to Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman to allocate additional funds for the repair and maintenance of the roads of the Poltava region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u15	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u16	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency, head of the coal industry subcommittee. I want to go to Andrey Paris and ask him to put the daily bill 6212 into order today. Unfortunately, we didn't get to him yesterday. What kind of bill is that? This is a bill that proposes to restore the capacity of state-owned coal companies. All day today, yesterday, during the week, I've been getting calls from Lviv-Ugil and Volin-Ugil and the administration of the Donetsk region. What does the bill propose? It is proposed that by January 1, 19, a moratorium should be imposed on the bankruptcy of state-owned carbon companies. The thing is, in the 17th year budget, we've invested money on upgrading and purchasing equipment for state-owned coal companies. And at the same time, when the funds are coming to those businesses, the bills are blocked and the funds are collected. You know. What recently occurred is that there was a tragedy on the Stepova mine on Lviv-Ugil DP, which was primarily because there was no funding, there was no financing for those companies to buy just new equipment that would, well, be much more effective than the old ones, to buy just these self-saves, for a lot of, to modernize those mines. I'm going to ask Andrija Volodymyrovich to try to draft this bill and vote today. I will ask you, honourable deputies, to vote for its inclusion in the agenda of the session and to accept it as a basis and as a whole. Today, I have just received a letter from the Military and Civil Administration of the Donetsk Region asking me to include just in order not to block the accounts, even though there are withdrawals to the Pension Fund and to the Insurance Fund. I spoke to Minister Nasalik, he assured me that this was the compensation, he was also working on the bill, and he was going to enact a separate law. And right now, I'd like to re-apply to you, Andriy Volodymyrovich, to put 6212 into the order of the day session. And you, dear colleagues, really get together and vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u17	Mr. Mikhailo, we actually failed this block yesterday. But on Thursday, we will again list those laws in the agenda of the day session. And hopefully there'll be more people in the hall tomorrow and there'll be more support. Thank you. And a word of invitation is made to Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u18	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u19	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues! In a few days, we'll be listening to the Cabinet of Ministers. Unfortunately, this cabinet of ministers is undervalued throughout the year. Why is he unworthy? The point is, during the year, there is an unstaffed position as head of the Ministry of Health. For the third month in a row, the Prime Minister promises us to conclude political consultations on the definition of a candidate to be headed by the Ministry of Health. I don't know what kind of advice there might be when there are two factions in the coalition today? What, you can't make a deal with each other? To identify a person as one of the 40 million citizens of Ukraine, who can lead the ministry and assume responsibility? Moreover, this candidature is supported by a faction that is now sitting on site and by Communists. They constantly support their temporary responsibilities. Introduce a candidate to the conference room. You are constantly commending the initiatives that come out of the Ministry of Health. And let the person who bears responsibility be determined. Meanwhile, our Ministry of Health has become a special threat. The whole point is that no initiative that is so entrenched in the media today has come to an end. Please go to the clinic. Where's the money that's been following the patient since January 1st? You go to the pharmacy and show me where the drugs are cheap. I don't know what pharmacy the Prime Minister used to go to when he told me yesterday what cheap drugs there were. But ask people where they can buy these cheap drugs. Over the course of the year, so far, 2016, there's no medication available. And today, public organizations are calling for a reform of why. People come to the hospital to treat, there's no medicine. 4 billion dollars are taken abroad, and only 8 percent is the supply. Moreover, international organizations are being set up. Yesterday the ministry said with pride that we have good partners, they're changing all the medications that the deadline is over. I would like to remind you that more than 10,000 packages have completed their deadline. This is true of cancerous and oncogenic patients. They change, no doubt, who will pay for the disposal, who today will be responsible for the lack of medicine, and man’s death is coming. The opposition bloc insists on running for office as Health Minister and thus showing who is responsible for the collapse in the health system.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u20	The river Andriy Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u21	Please pass the word to the head of the "National Front" faction of Maxim Burbaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we have heard two opposition factions broadcast together by the Dark Ones from the Kremlin, that Parliament is ineffective, that we cannot make decisions, we cannot vote, and we must hold consecutive elections. You can't wait. We accept the bill. And we finally showed everyone yesterday that there is a function of parliamentary control. We called today at 12.30 NAMK's headquarters, which should tell us all why the e-declaration system didn't work again, why after last October last year we all filled out declarations, and there were problems in everyone, remember, the server fell, no conclusions were drawn. Again, 3,000 government officials who were to submit declarations were unable to do so. And now they have to take responsibility under the law that you and I have adopted. So I also have a lot of questions. And I'm addressing you, colleagues, at 12:30, we're going to have a representative of NAZK, asking questions and waiting for answers. And that's why I welcome the initiatives of Justice Minister Petrenko and the government that make changes to current legislation in order to restore the reputation of the State Anti-Corruption Authority in the higher echelons of power in order to restore its trust, because now it's gone. Secondly, I would like to go back to international politics. The IMF's decision to give us another loan was approved to fill the National Bank's reserves to stabilize the currency exchange rate. I'm talking to all of our Western partners, to all our colleagues in the room, so that we can engage our personal contacts, so that tomorrow the Euro-Parliament will vote in a revolutionary way -- it's the introduction of visa-free treatment for Ukrainian citizens. No one mentions it yet. For standing by Midan for coming out so that our citizens could move freely in Europe as citizens of Europe so that our citizens could get a visa-free regime. We have done our job, what the government of Yatsenuk, the government of Groysman and all of us together have done, we have adopted over 140 laws and acts so that our citizens can be in Europe. And the next. It'll be tomorrow. Starts the 10th Security Forum, held by the Open Ukraine Foundation. The event is unprecedented, because the three prime ministers of the Baltic countries will be on it, the head of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister will speak and turn Ukraine into the order of the day's international policy, because we have to do everything we can to attract attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u23	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u24	To get the world's attention back to Ukraine, which is struggling with the aggressor country, with Russia. Therefore, honourable colleagues, take your time, come, and we will discuss with each other the very important issues of international politics and Ukraine’s participation in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u25	Thank you. Rybczynski Evgen Juryovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u26	Congratulations, Your Honor! Honourable deputies and Ukrainian people! I'd like to draw everyone's attention to the issue of childhood. The thing is, unfortunately, there's very few numbers here, and I'd like to bring up very sadly, unfortunately, statistics. Ukraine takes first place in the world in terms of children’s AIDS. First place in the world is smoking, smoking among children. The level of drug abuse is first in Europe. On a level. Imagine, I didn't even think that there could be such a thing, we're the first children in the world to live in sewers. And now I have a question. The point is that the first line of the Ukrainian budget is social pay. We have a humanitarian sphere, which is the first area in which the state's money goes. Where's the childhood, where the kids are, where our future is? Let's focus on what's going on this week not only with the education that we're already paying attention to, but with those levels, not just the population, but with those children who are already beyond survival, who don't just need help and adaptation, but they need mechanisms to bring them back to normal society. I encourage everyone, and I will be very grateful for your cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u27	Thank you. Bereza Borislav Yuhimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u28	I pass, I return the word to Victor Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u29	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Victor Krivenko, People's Movement of Ukraine. The first question is the question of the NCRECR and the question of Mr Vuk. As early as February 2015 and in March 2015, I was actively speaking on television, using printed information against such a tariff formula. And then I told Mr. Wolf myself in his office that the time would come and they would ask you, how did you, an independent organ, an independent regulator, manage to guess in a penny the price not yet signed by the IMF, a memorandum? And the time will come, and you will be accountable in court and in law enforcement. Today we see this disgraceful decision of the NCREKP on gas subscription. And so, as a representative of the People's Movement in Parliament, I demand not just a report, a separate meeting, a decision-making process, but Mr. Vuk's release from office as a person who is damaging Ukrainian national interests. Next. The Prime Minister has promised here, from the Supreme Council's rostrum, to resolve the issue of debt on the salary of the Southern. I thank virtually all the factions of the Supreme Council that support this decision, and Law 5693, which deals with this issue. We now have almost 7,000 people working in the South Seas, in fact one day, people are freeing themselves, and there is no secret to those who are dealing with this issue, where the best professionals are moving to which country they are being exported. We lose the status of a missile-space state and feed our personnel to an aggressor country. I demand from the government a principled position on the issue of the settlement of the debt on salary in the South and the fulfilment of the promise by the distinguished Prime Minister. Because our rockets, with all my great respect for our carbon sinks, are no worse than our carbon dioxide, and we're just making up for our wages, and we're not doing it to our rockets for some reason. As a result, a number of government decisions have been taken, including restrictions on their activities. Yeah, we also have to run tests, there's also questions about management throughout the field, but we can't lose the status of the space shuttle. Next question. Last night, I went through a pit of protection for the Ukrainian language. Sadly, in the Ukrainian state, we still have to defend the Ukrainian language. But the situation is what it is. Then we did a briefing with John Vasilovich Omelyanuk, along with Larissa Nice, about what should be the only position, there should be one law, there should be no need to follow the scenario of our enemies and introduce three different bills into the hall. We realize that they will not be voted, that they will split up and dissipate the already heated patriots among themselves. And I urge that a meeting be held on the basis of a profile committee and that one text be unified. And the last. That's the same government promise from ABBY. The only company that went under government conditions legalized software.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u30	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u31	Which has legalized software with huge discounts, which the Ukrainian authorities have not paid for more than three years. And instead of paying 5 million dollars, now we're going to have to pay 14 million dollars if they win all the courts. This has a very negative impact on our reputation in this very sensitive area, where Ukraine is already recognized as one of the number one piracy in the world. Thank you for your attention and ask that these petitions be considered official references to the government. And the request is great to the presiding officer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u32	Colleagues, last speech, but please come in in a minute, because time is actually up. One minute, Zubak Lubomir Lvivitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u33	Please pass the word to Sobolje Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u34	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, what the government failed to do on behalf of Parliament, namely, to pass on all the gas distribution networks that, without paying a penny today, are being used by Firtash, was made by the Mukatov City Council, which, on the first day of the session, adopted a decision that gas distribution networks are taking on their balance. I think that this is a direct reprimand of the Prime Minister and the government after failing to implement Parliament's decision to break all of the agreements that we illegally have, the State has actually rid itself of the key influences on Ukraine's gas transport network. I think it's unprecedented when the government doesn't make this decision, but invites parliament to rent it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u35	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u36	Our faction insists that the bill, which introduced the government, which allowed the rental of the gas transport network to be passed on to Parliament, was revoked, and instead the government carried out the commission of Parliament, and all the gas transport networks were transferred to the only state-owned enterprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u37	Thank you. Colleagues, two more minutes. Oksana Siroid.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in fact, there are no reprisals of opposition in this room or in this country. But it's about self-help that new methods are being tested. Today, this method is a massive pressure on self-help female MPs. I think you recall the months-long slanderous attack on Elena Sotnik, who was unrepentant and unrepentant. Attacks on the house and the private car of Victoria Vojcitsky without investigation. For a year now, the secretary of the city council, Gitomiar Natalia Chizh, has been blackmailed, demanding that she leave office for her principled position. They were unable to intimidate the secretary of the municipal council and were illegally removed from office in order to rule the city illegally. On the weekends, the authorities sanctioned a shameful action, a sad move under the windows of the national deputy. Under the window of the deputy of the city council of Olga Balitsky for its principle position regarding the construction and the city of Kiev. Today, the Lviv District Council met for an extraordinary meeting solely to remove the first deputy head of the Lviv District Council. Again, for her position, which makes the lives of many deputies uncomfortable. Dear men of power! That hysteria that you've taken for self-help women is a manifestation of your weakness, but it's a great honor for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u39	Colleagues, there's been a statement from two factions on the intermission: "self-help" and "radical party." But they're ready to replace a 30-minute break with a talk from the scene. And of the two factions, Oleg Valeriovich Lazko has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u40	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Yesterday, Naftogaz Ukraine made an official statement to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine demanding the removal of the Firtash monopoly on the population gas supply market -- what the Radical Party faction claimed was that Firthash, Ljovczyn, and the company continued to rob Ukrainians under the cover of President Prashenko by settling with him. And for this corruption in the oil market, I have to pay my grandfather, my grandmother in the village, to pay the pensioners, to pay the unemployed and the workers who get the small wages. Therefore, the Radical Party faction requires the government, since we have such pseudo-suppliers of gas, the vast majority of which belong to Firtash, they are unnecessary agents in the gas market for the population, they have no responsibilities and risks associated with gas supply, they do not create added value for consumers. We're asking the government to remove the monopoly of Dusty, Furtash, Lewochkin from the gas market in Ukraine. This monopoly is pure water corruption for which Ukrainian citizens pay. This corruption is expressed in established gas subscription fees, and for counters, when people consume gas or do not consume gas, they have to pay for counters. This corruption is that 24 billion dollars a year will be removed from the Ukrainians ’ pockets and distributed among themselves by Dustenko, Firtash, and the company. This corruption is that the state, with gas distribution networks, loses out because these gas distribution networks have been using Firthash and the company for free for many years. In Yanukovic, national gas distribution networks were provided, since in villages people built gas pipelines at their own cost, today these pipelines are used by Firtash, Ljovczyn, and the company under cover, under President Prašenk's hollow roof, and this corruption that is being paid for by every Ukrainian. So we demand the government and now the Radical Party faction, we're going to a full government meeting to demand that the government take a decision on the return of state property, national property, to deprive the oligarchs of the source of corruption at the expense of Ukrainian citizens. On April 10th, we are going to the NCREKP meeting to get them to cancel their subscription decision. And today, President Prašenko is returning to Ukraine. We demand the President's meeting with the faction to resign the head of the NCREKP of the "Shosen Wolf".
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u41	Colleagues, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. We're going to be lonely, but hopefully the faction will be back soon from the government meeting. I want to tell you, colleagues, logic now. The first is the issue of ratification. And so I'm going to ask everyone to come into the hall right now, and I'm going to suggest that we take him through a reduced procedure. Ivanchuk blocked the rostrum. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. Then there will be a question that virtually required all factions – "To amend some Ukrainian legislation to ensure the realization of the housing rights of residents of hostels" – with proposals by the President of Ukraine. My colleagues, I hope that all the factions, all those who recommended this law, will make full mobilization in order to be able to vote positively. Then there will be the question of sports and youth politics. Colleagues, I'm moving on to the first question of the agenda. This is a draft law on the ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council on amendments and additions to the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council. So, colleagues, 0137. And I urge all colleagues to vote on the issue in short notice. Please come into the hall and vote. Colleagues, I'd like you to support us so that we can go through a full day's work. Please come into the hall. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:49:26]] For-137 Guys, I'll put it back on. Please take up jobs. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. And once again, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to review the short-term ratification. Please vote, please support. People's deputies, please vote, please support. Vote! [[10:50:12]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Infrastructure Minister Lavrenjuk Yuri Fedorovich. Please. We can go to the rostrum. It's a victory. That's what happened.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u42	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! You have before you the draft Law on Ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council on the International Carriage of Passengers and Goods by Road from 30 October 2000 and the Protocol to the Agreement. Imported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine The bill is designed in connection with the need to carry out the internal procedures necessary to establish the validity of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council on amending and supplementing the above agreement. The purpose of adopting this draft law is to simplify international road transport between the two countries, to transit their territory, by amending articles 4, 8 and 10 of the agreement. The development of interstate ties between Ukraine and the Swiss Confederation is a logical part of integration into the European economic space for which an international legal mechanism is needed to implement this process through the adoption of the bill. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u43	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna Mikolayovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u44	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on 22 March, reviewed the draft Law on Ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council on International Carriage of Passengers and Goods by Road from 30 October 2000 and the Protocol of 2000 and the Protocol to the Agreement. And I decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of this draft law on the basis of both the whole and its ratification. As has already been said, the purpose of the project is to create an international legal mechanism for the implementation and revitalization of bilateral inter-State relations between Ukraine and the Swiss Confederation, and to simplify international road transport between the two countries, and to transit their territory. So, colleagues, please support the Committee's decision in foreign matters and ratify the protocol. Dear colleagues! I'd like to invite those who are still somewhere in the towers to come. Because an important vote is about to take place. And we need 226 votes. And to report that we are now having an inter-parliamentary meeting of the Council, when representatives of the national members of NATO came to us, where we are exchanging experiences. They also want to understand what kind of parliamentary control of the security and defence sector. We're having a meeting this morning at 9 a.m. at the head of Mrs. Irina Heratchenko's First Vice-Speaker. And that's why I urge you to welcome these colleagues today as well. Now back to the hall and vote in favour of ratifying this important agreement. In addition, Switzerland has been very helpful in helping Ukraine, including humanitarian aid, in the area of sustainable development, ecology, and various decentralization projects. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u45	Thank you. Colleagues, please record two in, two in. Ribak Ivan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u46	Ivan Rybak, the Peter Dust Block faction. Dear colleagues! Let's support the ratification, the ratification. Really, this is a very important question. We're all talking a lot about simplifying cargo transport procedures, moving from the "dead place" of our Ukrainian economy, exporting Ukrainian goods to the European market, but it takes an unhindered movement of all these goods to the European market. So let's simplify the procedures for freight transport, for passenger transport between Ukraine and the Swiss Confederation, and vote in favour of this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u47	Thank you. Romanova Anna Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u48	I give the word to Roman Semensi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u49	Semenha Roman, Self-help faction. Dear colleagues, today we are making important changes to the Agreement on International Passengers and Freight Transport and to our political and economic partner, Switzerland. And that's a positive step. Switzerland has already expressed its position by granting the right to be without a visa for Ukrainian citizens. Switzerland has repeatedly provided both humanitarian and political support to our country, including by introducing and supporting external international sanctions against the Russian Federation. This country’s government has banned the border of its state for so - called officials of annexed Crimea. But Ukraine already has transport agreements with 47 countries in the world. The European market is already partially compensating us for the loss of the Russian market to Ukrainian carriers and traders. Ukraine has every prospect of becoming the gates between Asia and Europe. In a unique geographical position, we can have a decent and outgoing transport hub between import exports and between Asian countries and Europe. As we consider this provision today, however, it is important to mention another vital aspect. How can we talk about developing political, economic relations, deepening cooperation if Ukraine has not appointed its own ambassador in this country in two years. It's a shame and a shame. I think the Ukrainian government should finally consider more than 10 countries to appoint ambassadors. How can we talk about restoring the subject of international politics, the international image of Ukraine, if we are more than 10 countries, among them our key partners, we do not have our own ambassadors. So we urge the government to appoint ambassadors immediately in all countries where we have not yet done so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u50	Guys, I'm about to make my last speech. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite the deputies into the Hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies into the Hall in two or three minutes. Please, Spanov Dmitry Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, 25 years of diplomatic relations between Ukraine and Switzerland have been completed this year. It is very good that the ratification of the protocol by the Swiss Federal Council is on the agenda today. This protocol will enable the establishment of international legal mechanisms to enhance bilateral international relations and facilitate international road transport between the two countries and transit through their territory. However, in order to develop international relations with our strategic partner, some of the amendments to the protocols must always be addressed in a comprehensive manner and, in order to improve diplomatic relations, the Ambassador of Ukraine must finally be appointed in Switzerland. The head of diplomatic representation has not been appointed for more than two years. To all my official appeals, both the President and Kabmin answer that they are looking for an ambassador, a candidate for Ukraine. Well, Ukraine will never begin to see itself as a serious partner until we learn to comply with the rules of the diplomatic protocol. At least appoint the Ambassador of Ukraine to Switzerland to protect the economic and political interests of our country. Thank you. Our faction will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask to invite members of the Chamber, and while I wish to inform you that there is now a delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Ukraine. And I would like to tell you that the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly was with us when we were in Midan, on the barricades, they were with us, and they're still very actively supporting Ukraine. Let's welcome our friends, our brothers from the North Atlantic Alliance. Welcome. Thank you. Yesterday we celebrated the anniversary of NATO's creation, and we are confident that one day we will celebrate this anniversary as full members of NATO. And I want to remind you, the decision taken at the NATO summit that Ukraine will be a member of NATO, and we are all convinced of that. Thank you and welcome. Thank you. Colleagues, so we go to the vote. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. I'm asking you to take up your jobs. There is no political debate here in the ratification, and I'm sure we can all support it and vote. Colleagues, please, we're taking up jobs. And I am voting on a draft law on the ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council on amendments and additions to the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council on the International Carriage of Passengers and Goods by Road from 30 October 2000 and the Protocol to the Agreement. As decided by the committee, it is proposed that it be supported as a whole. Colleagues, please vote, please support 0137 as a whole. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:01:19]] For 232 Decision taken. By factions, turn on, let's show the unity of the hall. "Peter Prashenko's Block" – 85, "The People's Front" – 56, "The Opposition Block" – 22, "self-help" – 18, "Radical Party" – 3, "The Fatherland" – 9, "The Will of the People" – 8, "The Rebirth Party" – 9. Colleagues, we're now moving on to the next important question, so I'm asking everyone to be in their seats. This is the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on ensuring the realization of housing rights for residents of hostels, with proposals from the President. But before I go to this bill, I'd like to make the message brief. Colleagues, yesterday we invited a number of leaders, including the Antimonopoly Committee, and the Holding Foundation, and the National Energy Regulatory Commission, as well as the National Anti-Corruption Agency, to the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to inform you that after an invitation to study the situation, three of those bodies, such as the Antimonopoly Committee, the State Property Fund and the National Commission, have already submitted their report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We hope that these reports will be considered on the nearest committees, and we will listen to them after the committee meeting. Today, it is suggested that we listen to the head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency Korczak Natalia Mikolayevna at 12:30. In order to do that, we have to hold another vote -- 150 votes so that today we can hear without decisions, and only the information is heard and accepted. Colleagues — What Is the Challenge? Let's vote if there are voices. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, yesterday was the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine I organizationally provide this. Come on, if there's voices in the room, we listen, we don't listen, we don't listen. Who's to say today. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, in this regard, need to be exchanged. Let's change our minds one minute at a time. All right, one minute at a time, Vlasenko, Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! Sergey Vlasenko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Ukrainian Parliament expressed its sovereign will yesterday and called here for a report on an extraordinary situation, not on another annual report, but on extraordinary occasions a number of central executive heads with special status, as well as special bodies. Today, the Head of the Supreme Council says that three out of four have submitted another report, and they are ready to come in the next report. People, it's completely ignoring, in general, the status of the Ukrainian Parliament. I want to remind you that we are with you and we live with you in the parliamentary-presidential Republic. We've called the clerics here to report, let them come and report on the extraordinary situations that they've created in the areas that we've entrusted them with. That is why I demand that yesterday's decision by Parliament be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u54	Oleg Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u55	Mr. Chairman, yesterday you and I have decided that we are calling here officials of the state, whom the people of Ukraine and Parliament caught in a hot scam: stealing money from people's pockets. And so today, without too much discussion in this room, there must be the head of the NCREKP to explain this fraud. And I think today this room is supposed to free him from his job because he's discredited a state agency that's supposed to protect the interests of consumers, not the interests of six people in the country. Right here, all the leaders, and work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u56	Who else would like to speak? My colleagues, so once again, I want to point out to you that today, today, the committees will be looking at their report. If we have the will, we can call them tomorrow and vote. I've technically arranged this. Colleagues, let me put these proposals in order. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sergei, I'm saying we didn't set a date yesterday. Now I propose, if there's such a will in the hall, to call Korczak. And you're offering another Wolf today, aren't you? [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand correctly: And the Wolf today? Please, what are the thoughts? Please, the front. Please, People's Front, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u57	Let us live up to our passions, and let us not make ourselves another pyar. We need to talk to Mrs. Korczak today about the work of NAZK, about the lost reputation of this State Anti-Corruption Authority, about how the government officials who wanted to submit their declarations under the law didn't have time for that, about the server that "fell." And instead of making ourselves another pyar, we need to meet with all of them -- the four we called yesterday. So let's take a closer look at NAZK's work today. This is a very important thing, because I'm being asked by my district that they couldn't fill out the declarations, and now they have to be responsible for criminal responsibility for failing to submit because the server didn't work. Today we're going to talk about NAZK, and then we're going to set up a meeting so we don't have to get him to sleep with us. It's a conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u58	Peter Dustenka's Block, please, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u59	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Yesterday, the Hall came together, and we really invited the heads of the four state institutions to the Supreme Council to come and report and answer the questions of parliamentarians regarding the problems that exist in the work of these bodies. But this should not be, indeed, a political pianist. It's not supposed to be a 10-minute conversation about anything. This should be a detailed discussion in order to enable parliamentarians to make sound informed decisions on this basis. So today we're going to listen to Mrs. Korczak and we're going to be able to talk to her in detail about the problems that a bunch of our colleagues are actually facing, a bunch of people in the regions. As for others, they will soon be in Parliament. Let's not forget that we have this planning week, next plenary week, and I think in these two weeks we're all going to hear in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u60	So, colleagues, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, Irina Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, I would like to address those who are trying to overthrow the leaders of other factions. Let's honor each other, we agree that we have to listen to all the officials called by Parliament. Under the terms of the parliamentary-presidential republic, they are obliged to report to Parliament. But I am. Let's also honor each other and hear the argument of the other factions. And let me agree with the coalition factions that today let's take a normal time to listen to the NAZK representative. Similarly, we will take a normal time — an hour to listen to Mr. Vuka (to him very many questions) and not to be tempted into a single coma. And in fact, that's how we talk to you about increasing the role of committees. So let us today give the committee a chance to listen to that report, to see, and tomorrow we will bring it all together. As an MP, I propose to take such a position today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that after yesterday's decision, I made a deal with the heads of the hearing committees, and I also agreed to meet with Natalia Mikolayevna earlier. And this decision, which is already agreed upon, I make for the judgment of the hall. So, who wants us to hear the head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency Korczak Natalia Mikolayevna today at 12:30, please vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. [[11:10:46]] For-183 Decision taken. We can have a full, thorough, deep conversation, colleagues. We'll agree, we can bring it in tomorrow, I have to get in front of the manager, my colleague. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure the realization of housing rights for residents (1076). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, please support. [[11:11:34]] For-137 I'll do it again. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. So, colleagues, I'm going to put it again. If you don't want to, we'll go through the procedure. I am voting on the proposal to review the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the enforcement of housing rights for residents of hostels under a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[11:12:19]] For-144 We're going in full procedure. And I invite you to the report. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, I'll do it again, third time, colleagues, but this will be the last time. Come into the hall, colleagues, I'll put it again. We have a youth and sports block today, we just might not get to it. So, colleagues, once again, I'm proposing a review of "To make changes to some Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the realization of housing rights of residents of hostels" under a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:13:26]] For-147 No voices. I won't bet again, I put three votes. And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing of Shinkovic Andrija Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u63	Dear fellow National MPs, I would like to urge you: dear friends, there is no policy in this law before I present your opinion. This law does not divide us into factions or parties. This law applies to people living in hostels, half a million people. I'm sure no one joins the parties and no one shares in politics. But unfortunately, dear friends, we see today that the very right, socially important, necessary questions, unfortunately, are always faced with a name of things with their names, provocations: either blocking or issues. And as a result, we don't collect the votes, so there are other things. Thus, the need for the adoption of Bill 1076 is due to the complex socio-economic situation in Ukraine and the systemic violations of the housing rights of citizens who are forced to live in hostels, the imperfection of legal regulation at the legislative level of the issue of housing rights of residents, the negative consequences of the inclusion of hostels, former state and municipal enterprises in statutory capitals. The bill was developed by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Urban and HKG, a working group of "hospitals", 29 National Deputies, who worked entirely on each faction. Why, I say, did they work? Because they worked on this law for six months. The aim of the bill is to resolve the differences between the provisions of the current laws of Ukraine to ensure the realization of housing rights of residents of hostels No. 500, the privatization of the State Housing Fund, the transfer of property rights to state and municipal property and the Housing Code. This law was passed by us, your honor's colleagues, on April 20, 2016, but the President of Ukraine imposed a veto on this law and returned it with his proposals. By a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of November 1, 2016, this law was intended to be drafted by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Construction, Urban Planning and HKG, for its reintroduction to the Supreme Council, for its consideration of the procedure for re-second reading, taking into account the proposals made by the entities of the legislative initiative. This law has been prepared and prepared by the committee for review in a second reading. The President's proposals, which were made accordingly in response to his acceptance, were taken into account. This law has been developed by national deputies, experts, ministries. The committee proposes that it be adopted as a law in the second reading and in general as a result of a reexamination. Please support the committee’s decision and adopt this law in second reading and generally as a law. Thank you. Ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u64	Thank you. Please record the question to the reporter for three minutes. Please. Swelling Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u65	Thank you. Andrew, I want to ask. To date, is there such an analysis of how many hostels were privatized along with businesses? And how many dorms were just bought for a penny?Oh, my God! So I must, I fully support you in your desire that people today are not to blame for what happened. People were just sold along with the dormitories! And these are people who have the lowest financial capacity and ability. Clearly, then, a person who understands the problem of having a heart and honor must vote in favour of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u66	Thank you, Your Honor, Gregory Mikhailovich! As a result, today there are three types of hostels: municipal, state, and those that have entered the statutory capital. The decision of this bill, if God pleases and we accept it in the hall, of course there are more than 400 dormitories that have been submitted in a separate analysis, today we counted, not today, but in preparation for the report, we counted individual 9-story, 2-way hostels with more than 500 residents. Together with these people, they were privatized at today’s index prices for 30,000 dollars! And there's another situation. Gregory Mikhailovich, you have violated the very right thing. That they are dealing with these people today is, unfortunately, so shameful! Excavated by force, specifically by force. One of the first bills we adopted was a moratorium on eviction. Sadly, though, this standard is being violated! That's why the residents of the hostels.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u67	Thank you. Please, Juryn Oksana Vasilevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u68	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Andrew Volodymyrovich, I'd like to ask you. Yesterday there were a large number of people standing under the walls of the Supreme Council, not representing one region, but the whole of Ukraine. And they wanted to prove once again that this law was important for their rights to stand still. Now, please make it clear that this is a bill that has probably been most discussed in this session hall for over two years, most round tables. These comments, which were proposed entirely by all, were implemented, he really brought together people from different political parties, with different views, because he really advocates the interests of the common Ukrainian. Thank you for bringing this up. And please tell me, yesterday's questions about the people who stood by the walls of the Supreme Council and asked for help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u69	Thank you, Oksana Vasilovna. Well, of course, what we heard yesterday about us under the walls of the Supreme Council is not new, because we understand that people come to cry. But objectively, objectively, when three generations grew up in one room, when this room was obtained as an employee of an enterprise, both the father and the mother worked on this business, and the children of his, well, grandchildren no longer work there. This is just one example. And I want to privatize these 14 square meters because they don't have any other housing. And look at who this bill is spreading: those who are in line -- once, those who don't have their own housing, because there are probably residents of hostels who already have housing and want to privatize it. We don't give that right. In turn, once, there is no own home, two has a working relationship or members. with an enterprise the working relationship or family members had an employment relationship with an enterprise that built it or that gave it a warrant they had. Or they have a lease agreement. So that's what all the standards are. Moreover, it is very good that the President has returned.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u70	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u71	It's very good that the President has returned, and he's turned our attention to the weak places, and we've counted them. I emphasize, the president's remarks are taken into account. That's a lot. And today the bill is so overworked, Oksana Vasilovna said wisely, so much discussed that it simply needs to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u72	Thank you. And the last performance is Irina Lucenko, turn on the microphone. And let's go to the right hand side, to the right-hand side. Please, Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u73	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Two observations remain relevant to the bill, and they have been put into the veto of the President of Ukraine, which needs to be taken into account. This is what we're talking about. First. The draft law on the category of citizens who are not covered by the Ukrainian Housing Rights Act refers to citizens who live in a hostel but who are not or are not in a working relationship with an enterprise that they are given the right to live in a hostel. In this way, the law imposes restrictions on the exercise of the rights to privatization of residential premises in hostels, depending on the existence of employment relations with the enterprise. This is not consistent with the constitutional principle of equality of citizens before the law, by which citizens have equal constitutional rights and freedoms and are equal before the law. — Article 24 of the Constitution. Second, the bill proposes to provide that living space in the hostel is provided to single citizens and families who are to live.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u74	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u75	who have the right to reside in a hostel as decided by the company's administration. At the same time, neither in the actual edition of the Housing Code nor in the law under consideration is such a category defined. Please listen to these comments and take into account the voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u76	Thank you. Please ask the head of the committee to return to the rostrum. We'll go after the repairs. After all the amendments you'll be able to make, you'll be able to take the word at any direction. Please explain which tables we're following.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u77	We're going along a comparative table, which means an additional table, because it's exactly the new ones that are taken into account in the President's proposals and other adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u78	So, Mr. Head, look at this table? This one, right? On this table.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u79	Why is that, Andrew Volodymyrovich, honorable, because we've gone through the big one, or we've taken it, or we've rejected it, and that's an extra one.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u80	Then announce immediately how many amendments have been rejected and how many have been accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, all new ones have been introduced, which we did not discuss in the hall, but discussed on the committee, because we usually offer a committee option. There were only 12 amendments, 12 amendments, and all 12 amendments were taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u82	Who has the desire to make adjustments? Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u83	Dear Head, during the finalization of article 1, part three, it is technically exclusively the National Police, as well as written dormitories, a civil protection system that does not match the name of the Central Civil Protection Service. In this regard, it is necessary to introduce a technical amendment to the proposed revision of part three of article 1 of the Ukrainian Housing Rights Act, after the words "Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine" are added with the words "National Police of Ukraine", and the words "civil protection systems" should be replaced with the words "State Service of Ukraine with extraordinary situations". Please take into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u85	Please, Mr. Andrew, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u86	Absolutely right help, thank you for reading so carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u87	Eutushka, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u88	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Thank you, Mr. Head. I'll say that this bill regulates and gives residents the right to exercise their right to housing through local self-government. Instead, local self - government authorities should immediately require unscrupulous owners who have statutory capitals and dormitories who have entered to immediately return to municipal property and allow those who live there to work 30 years to privatize the housing. We didn't have the President's veto, and I think for all the residents it was kind of a cold shower when we got the veto. And what I'm saying is that not all the amendments, I'm sorry that the President didn't settle issues like the residents who live not on the order, but who live under the lease. So we're probably going to have to go back to Parliament, or else we're going to get the next people in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u89	Dear colleague, thank you. But let me draw your attention to the 12th amendment, there's this moment, this really is what we lost in preparation. But I still let myself say that it's good that the President has returned from the veto. I mean, it gave us the opportunity to work and take all the nuances into account. But in your question, my dear colleague, something like this was said to return immediately. We don't have the barbaric nationalization of this bill. It is assumed that honorary colleagues, yes, can voluntarily transfer the owner of the hostel from statutory capital. Yes, we can appeal to the court, but with compensation or partial compensation. And here's the very important point: compensation is equal to the value at which this hostel actually, let's say, was privatized. Moreover, if repairs were done, other work, duly documented, would increase the cost of this hostel. The cost that the local council buys out, and separately we have foreseen a state-wide program to implement this lawreproact, which we will start to consider after adoption.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u90	Please give 30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u91	And after the adoption of the bill we have already introduced, it is a registered bill on a state-wide programme that will help not to take away the dormitories, but to compensate those owners who took care of them who handed them over. That is, voluntary compensation and partial compensation, once again, at the agreement of the parties. No one will take away the hostels, but in justice, the question will be asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u92	Thank you. And please, Papiev and Vasjunik later. Please turn on the microphone, Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear Andriy Vasilovich! I have more questions for the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to understand the status of this issue at all. At the beginning, you put a reduced procedure to the vote. A shortened procedure shall be voted if it is the first reading. I see it's written daily that this is a review of the law with the President's proposals. We have a corresponding 23 chapter of the Rules, where article 132a, 136 clearly prescribes the procedure. I take the table, and it says, "repeated second reading." So why don't you explain to me what we have: a second one, the President's proposal? And what do we have, what is this procedure of the question that you're leading? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u94	So I'll let you know first. This is the second reading. When the discussion began, I did not pay any attention to this, Mr. Michael. But this is the second reading, and we're going to go after the amendments, and now the committee head, the committee representative, will explain what table we're going by. Please, Andrew Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u95	Yeah, it's a second time again, because we brought him back to the committee after. and now we are reviewing it again because we have accepted it in our second reading. The amendments were made in a slightly different way. So the President proposed a veto and gave a justification for that. We took it to the committee again, so we didn't beat the veto, but we didn't agree to it, so we sent it back to the committee for a second reading. And in preparation for the second reading on behalf of the National Deputies, members of the Committee, we have made comments by the President of Ukraine, and they are taken into account. Additional table. There's a second table before re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u96	Do you understand the answer to the question? We sent it to the committee for further work, the committee worked on it, and we're working on the table for "second reading again." You got it, right? Please, Igor Vasjunik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u97	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, I am surprised at the position of those deputies who do not want to vote in favour of this bill. Either you haven't read it, or you act in the interests of those who "accept" state enterprises along with the people, along with the dormitories and throw their stuff out on the street day after day. This law works in the interests of those who worked for 20-30 years in state-owned enterprises, coming there by young professionals and specialists. This law works in the interests of doctors, teachers, or other employees who legally live in a hostel. This law requires the approval of 600,000 residents of the hostel for the fifth year. I beg of you, we have no right to overthrow this bill. Come on. We make a positive decision under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u98	Thank you. All right, guys, let's do it again. Now we have Eutuszek, one minute. Oh, Yvchenka. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Yvchenko is one minute. Illenko is one minute of correction. And, colleagues, in four or five minutes, we're going to go to the vote. I ask to invite members of the House and Heads of factions, and the Secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Yvchenka. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u99	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, Fatherland, clearly supports this bill. I want to say that our fellow MP Dubyl in his official receptions is constantly fighting to keep people from being evicted from the hostel in Chernigiv region. And all the lawyers who work there today want to understand a few things. Well, first of all, we understand that a person can privatize a person who, on the outside of employment, can present contracts that have been made through a special order, but we understand that this rule has been in force since 2009. What should be done to those who lived until 2009? That's the first one. And the second. Colleagues, what's going on? Will it be happening to those hostels that are privatized or corporate? That is, they fall within the scope of the Housing Code or the Civil Code. So they don't fall under this law? So we want to understand here what's going to happen to one category and another. And once again, I want to say that maybe we should work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u100	30 seconds, please add.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u101	We're going to have to look at the possibility of further work with those comments that I'm talking about. Fatherland supports the veto of the President. And once again, this is a disgraceful case. It's a disgrace when we have a bill Wednesday that's supposed to get 300, and we realize that there's no MPs, we put it on Wednesday. I would very much ask that this is the kind of bill that socializes on Thursday inside when there are MPs in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u102	What made you think 300 votes were necessary?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u103	No, no, it's not breaking the veto, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u104	That's 226 votes you're talking about. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u105	I'm going to answer that question by 2009. That's exactly the standard that was removed, and it's ours. There are basic, first, five years in a dormitory. A second, or a warrant, or a lease agreement, but a related person with a working relationship. Why is it a work relationship? Because now they're fictitiously ascribed to anyone on the street to leave it in statutory capital, and we have to stand and fight for the interests of those people who actually worked, who actually lived for at least five years or more, and who have accordingly. Because we can make corporate, once again, I've already said, they are. There are three ways: voluntary, that's clear, that's possible, and now, we've entered two more ways, that's compensation, partial compensation, but the initiators are the organs of local self-government. Why are we proposing through local authorities? Nor should there be a permit so that each individual individual does not judge so that we do not bring it into a dead end. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u106	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u107	The initiative of the local self-government body is addressed to the owner of an enterprise whose balance sheet is grouped, but once again these dormitories are not currently being built, and specifically those that have been corporateized or privatized. Yeah, yeah. And accordingly, the owner, or compensation, claims which proves it, either voluntarily, or partial compensation, i.e. not complete, but partial. Well, so it's very civilized to actually write it down. We did not just communicate with the residents of the hostels but with the owners of the companies that have such hostels on the balance sheet.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u108	Thank you. First Illenka, then Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u109	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We made a number of amendments, and some of them were included. And we think that, of course, this law is multifaceted, which it's been going through for so long, all of these procedures have to be finally approved. Because this is, indeed, the problem of the hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens who have come to be in absolutely terrible situations in life. In fact, many of them can be thrown out at any time, many have already been thrown out. And we have as the Supreme Council to stop it, to give them the opportunity to live civilizedly, to have their own housing, even this little unhappy room in the dormitory. And some have actually lived there for generations and still have no rights. This is a completely abnormal situation. So I urge everyone to vote. This law is not perfect; there are also gaps. Unfortunately, he doesn't solve all the problems, but at least if we can do as much as we can today, we need to help the residents.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u110	Please, Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u111	Thank you, thank you. Your comments came into the main table, that is, the first table. Alexander Alexandrovich Marchenko, your colleague in your group, is co-author of the bill. So thank you, and thank you all for the work you have done. It's called a harmonized bill, which is that it took into account the interests of everyone who wanted to participate in its preparation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u112	Thank you. Debenkov, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u113	The distinguished presiding, respected colleagues, Ukrainian citizens, indeed, the bill for those who do not have their own homes and who live very long in dormitories is very important. It will be supported as much as possible by the opposition bloc, because it is indeed the problems of citizens, irrespective of the region in which they live. But I'm worried about something else. First, by procedure, there is actually the veto of the President. You are now considering re-second reading in the procedure. You say that the President is well, that he has vetoed it, and those proposals have been taken into account. Yes, the President said that the law should be repealed, as it did not guarantee the constitutional rights of residents of these hostels to their housing rights, which was a disgrace. This is the position of the President, who represents all Ukrainian citizens, which is unacceptable. We, the opposition bloc faction, call upon all MPs to remedy this situation now by a maximum vote in favour of the bill. Regrettably, the coalitions now have little to vote on and correct this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u114	Andrew Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u115	Dear, dear colleague, I am very shy. We're not getting over the veto right now. We discussed the veto, when the President returned, with a previous vote in favour of the bill. Back from the veto, yeah. Very nice. But there were constructive suggestions, solid arguments, and adjustments. Thus, we sent a second reading to read again under the Rules. More loyally, for the committee's work. Oh! And that's why we don't count in this case, we don't do the veto, we're looking at re-reading the bill, so we need 226 votes. And in general, let's not take politics back. There's no politics here. We do not need to find out who and what the group should adopt the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u116	Please, Olena Babak. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u117	Dear National Deputies! Indeed, this bill has been very seriously discussed by representatives from all over Ukraine, associations of members of the hostels, people who have been trying for a very long time to defend their constitutional rights to privatize the housing they own, to live in, but who have been transferred as hostels to the statutory capitals of enterprises during privatization. And actually, the hostels were privatized with people. And now we're just solving, removing the problem that we think is, well, the problem that was created in a completely non-civilized way in previous years. We now give people the right to privatize the housing they've been living in for a long time. And indeed, there were questions about the fact that when dormitories were transferred to statutory capitals. new owners forced people to make leases with them, that's what happened. And they said, "Unless you can live here." People made these contracts. And actually in the first draft of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u118	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u119	And when the law came back, these people said, "But we settled on legitimate grounds, we had warrants, we had decisions. It's just that in time we were forced to turn them into leases." We fixed it. Moreover, those who actually live in hostels today, but there is no legal basis for living there, we send them, these people, to the commission of local self - government. These commissions are already in Kiev, for example, already created and working, and they settle issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u120	Please, Andrew Vasilovich. The vote is in two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u121	Alona Valeriyovna, you have quite faithfully drawn the attention of our fellow national deputies to the issue. I mean, right? Is there or is there not a working relationship? Because there are different working relationships in the plan, well, documentary confirmation. Orders. One of them had warrants, and then their owners had taken orders from people in statutory capitals. Someone signed the lease and why did they sign the lease? So that at any moment, it could be unscrambled and taken away. And throw a man out on the street. So these are the issues that the boards of residents, social organizations, were actively involved in writing this bill and then included all the nuances that we as the national MPs might not know. Because I don't think we have a lot of people here who live in a dorm, I'm sorry. But come on, let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u122	Colleagues, we are about to proceed to the vote. I've already announced that this will be a comprehensive list: Kishkar, Antonistak. All I'm saying is, I give you my word for amendment. And, colleagues, now we have two more amendments and we're moving on to the vote. Absolutely, because we're going to perform endlessly after the amendments. And I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall right now. In three or four minutes, we're going to vote. Now Paul Kishkar, one minute. Then Antonistak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! Paul Kishkar, "The People's Movement of Ukraine." Thank you to the developers and to those who have joined in making this law even better. In addition, this law deals in particular with the question of the dormitory of the former Plastmas factory, the city of Brovary, which is: Brochures, Blvds of Independence, 3b. And for about eight years now, people have been unable to solve their housing issues in any way and complete this long epoch. Thank you to the developers, thank you to the colleagues for their support, and please vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u124	You don't comment. Antonistek, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the bill not to make any kind of policy. After all, our decision is to consider some 500,000 Ukrainians who live in hostels. I am aware of this problem because I was an assistant member of the Lviv City Council and led five public receptions. I went around the territory all the dormitories, sold them as slaves at the time of the raiding of enterprises, when illegal privatization took place. The biggest problems are, have been, and remain with the dormitories. They cannot form their contractual relationships by electricity, by gas, even by the adjectives. I urge you to reject politics and support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u126	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're done talking about the amendments. Now, I'm going to put up a rating vote first, and we're going to invite MPs into the hall. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. We're moving on to making a decision. Colleagues, please take up jobs, let's move on to making decisions. So first, I'm going to put a rating vote under the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on ensuring the realization of housing rights of residents of hostels (1076). Colleagues, rating vote. Please vote, please support. The rating vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[11:46:26]] For 248 Let's move on to making a decision. And I put to the vote the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the enforcement of housing rights for residents of hostels, with proposals by the President of Ukraine as a whole, with the rights that Maxim Burbak has issued and with which the Committee has agreed, 1076 as a whole. Please vote, please support me as a whole. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:47:09]] For 256 The law is passed. Colleagues, I have a request for us now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, now I would like to consider at least 1-2 laws from the block to the youth. Yeah, I mean. Yeah, for that. You have to say, under the stenogram, taking into account the first and second tables, and also Burbak's offer, the law was passed. Just to be simple. I don't want it to be. And Irina Stepan's repair. Well, colleagues, I'm sorry, I had to say very clearly from the rostrum. Colleagues, I'm asking that we be able to support the bill in another block of youth and sport, at least one. Are you ready, colleagues? I am considering the draft Act amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports on the Induction of Service-Based and Military-Application Sports (5616). And I'm asking you to consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and please vote, summary procedure. [[11:48:53]] For-162 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports Vojtowicz Jaroslav Vyacheslavovich. And, colleagues, I'm asking you to stay put so that we can adopt at least one law from the youth and sports bloc, colleagues. Let's have a quick discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u127	Honorable national MPs, a respected society, today is an extremely important and time-consuming issue regarding the official recognition of civil service and military-application sport in Ukraine, which requires legislative resolution on the need for its development, as a powerful means of training military and law enforcement officials for combat and service-fighting activities, an active means of military and patriotic education and training young people to protect the country. We also need to add that law enforcement and military-application sports have world recognition and are used by military and law enforcement personnel in many states. Competitions against military and service-based sports are being held internationally with more than 30 countries around the world. The armed forces of Ukraine since 1993 have been members of the military-sport organization of the International Council of Military Sports of the CISM. Under the auspices of the U.S.S.M., the world’s champions are held annually among the military and once every four years the world’s military games. Military competitions are particularly popular in the military, especially in the form of military sports. To our conviction, the consolidation of the term "service-applicable", "military-applicable" sport at the legislative level and the separation of this sport, as a separate direction, will contribute to its development as an important component of the professional training of military and law enforcement personnel. The idea of a sport-based service-use, military-application sport does not provide two separate directions, in fact, it is the only direction that highlights applied skills and skills as necessary for the military and professional activities of military personnel and law enforcement personnel. Taking into account what has been said, I would like to support the proposed draft of the Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport, which is established in the Service-Application and Military-Application Sports Act, which will facilitate the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports, in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u128	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u129	Physical culture and sports are appropriate for professional activities, and the work of regulation at the legislative level of service-applicable, military-applicable sports. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u130	Thank you. The report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sports, Silantiev Denis Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u131	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee at its meeting on February 21, 2017, reviewed the draft Act amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sport on the Induction of Service-Based and Military-Application Sports (number 5616), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and reported on the following. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport by recognizing the concept of "service-application and military-application sport". In particular, it is proposed to add to the direction of sport service-applicable and military-applicable sport. Limit the use of sports facilities in physical culture and sports that are made up of law enforcement agencies, lifeguards, and other social institutions. special services to train the right athletes to participate in all-U.S. and international competitions from Olympic and neo-Olympic sports. Define the term "service-application and military-applicable sport." Establish additional guarantees for higher-class athletes serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, other military formations established in accordance with the Ukrainian Law, law enforcement agencies, lifeguards and other special services on the possibility of including them in a physical culture and sport facility or in a position in structural units entrusted with the functions of sports activities and the development of physical culture and sport. During discussions with members of the committee, they supported the legislative initiative of the government to regulate the concept of "service-application and military-application sport". At the same time, members of the committee suggested leaving a part of article 30 of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports, which states that sports buildings have physical culture and sports listed in part four of this article, including sports clubs, bases and sports.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u132	30 seconds. But try harder, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u133	are used for bodies and physical training, training of military personnel and personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. This will promote the constitutional right of citizens to engage in physical culture and sports regardless of their professions, occupations, and jobs. As a result of the review, the committee adopted a decision: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport on the Establishment of Service and Militaryly Applied Sports, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on the basis of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis. At the same time, if there is no objection, the committee suggests that the bill be adopted in general, taking into account the committee’s proposals, leave it in its original form.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u134	Colleagues, is there support for this bill? It doesn't, does it? Discussion? Please include: two in, two in. But please be very brief. Please two in, two in, two in. Oleg's Medina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u135	Of course, our faction will support this bill. But I would like to draw the Ministry's attention to another factor that will help us develop military-applicable sports. This property is still Soviet property, which is used all over Ukraine not according to what appears to be a lease on which multiple floors are already built. I would like the government and the ministry to pay attention to this problem and prepare a legislative initiative to make this property perhaps nationalized and used for the development of Ukrainian military-application sport.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u136	Thank you. Romanova, Self-Help, Anna Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u137	I give the word to Oleg Berezuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u138	Mr. Head, sport, military-application sport is very important for the country. But when people are openly looted in the country, people catch the hand of the beetle. And Parliament is unable to call the chairman of the committee here to hear him out. That's a double-cross! We demand that you immediately put to the vote the head of the NCRECR to explain to the people of Ukraine. It's very important. These laws that we are now adopting are meaningless. We don't want to block it now, but we won't vote if you don't do the Parliament's will to let Parliament hear who probably robbed Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u139	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u140	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich! I want to support the previous speaker, I'm fully attached to his thesis, and this law needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u141	And, colleagues, this is the last performance. From the Radical Party Lazko Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u142	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Just now, the Radical Party faction was at a government meeting. We've submitted demands to the government, to the Prime Minister to remove corruption from the gas market. Today, according to Naftogazu, middlemen in the gas market are Firtash, Ljowczyn, Boyko, who, under the cover of power as a result of a corruption deal with President Prashenko, have set up a subscription. This will cost the Ukrainians 24 billion dollars per year, each of us from rural to unemployed, to the pensioners will have to pay to enrich the pockets of Firtash, Ljovczyn and Boyka, and President Prashenko, who covers them. For this, every Ukrainian in the gas market pays from his own pocket. We call on the government to decide to remove Firthash, Ljovczyn and Boyk's agents from the gas market, stop corruption, and as a result, it is possible to lower gas prices by at least 30 percent. Our second requirement is to cancel — not suspend, not suspend, but cancel — the decisions of the NCRECR concerning the imposition of counter payment. The Radical Party faction in its entirety on April 10th will come to the meeting of the NCREKP. We're going to remove the wolf's sheep skin, we're going to show him inside, his calls are corrupt, and they're going to rob Ukrainians. I call on colleagues from other factions to support our fight against subscription, to come to the NCREKP meeting, and to demand the annulment of the award. And the third. I have a request for President Dusty. Remove your "Schosenwolf" from the NCREKP, resign him, stop robbing Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u143	Colleagues, I have a big request for you. The committee has been preparing these bills for a long time for us to make decisions on them. Let's at least support one of those blocks right now, colleagues. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs, and the discussion is over. I ask you to prepare for the vote, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Since the factions and groups, who hasn't spoken? Sergey Melniczuk? One minute, Melniczuk and one minute. Who else? Kishkar, right? All right, one minute from Melniczuk and Gerasimov. Sergey Melniczuk, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u144	Sergey Melniczuk. We're discussing the bill as far as military sports are concerned. It is the health of the military, police, and other officials who are actually protecting us. And to prepare these workers, young people need to be prepared. And I don't see that there's a permit in this bill, for example, for military patriotic formations that they would have prepared for themselves from infancy. So young people have to be allowed to go to these sports complexes. So just in the first reading, in the second reading, add the same former recorder, now the TSO, to fully commit these structures to working for our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u145	Thank you. Mr. Arthur, if you don't mind, it's very brief, because the MPs just stand out in front of each other. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Andriy Volodymyrovich, the faction of the Peter Prashenko Block will support this bill. But in addition, I would like to remind the honourable Oleg Valeriyovich that the Block of Peter Poshenko, along with the Radical Party, with the Fatherland and Self-Help, voted in favour of the Law on the Market in Gas, and let's not forget that. And that's where the basis for the decision that was taken by the NCREKP was laid. The second question. The president of Ukraine and Peter Prashenko's Block made his position very clear on this decision. And you know that a decision has now been made, and it is stated by the NCREKP that it is suspended. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u147	Thank you. Colleagues, all the factions came out in a minute. Not everyone talked about the subject, it wasn't everyone talking about the subject. But I ask you not to politicize the ordinary laws necessary for the Committee of Youth and Sports. All the factions already had performances. Who did you mention, Mr. Arthur? Colleagues, I'm going to consult with you right now. We're just going to crash the bill. Is that what this is about? What was mentioned, Arthur? [[B in m in s a l in]] Who was mentioned, tell me whose name? After a minute of talking, let's move on to the vote. One minute, which one of you? Sobolen. And for a minute, which one of you? Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Gas Market Act clearly states that all gas distribution networks should be transferred to the State. Why has neither President Poroshenko nor Prime Minister Groisman done anything to transfer gas networks to the state? Why is Firthash still using these gas networks without paying a penny? Moreover, the government passed a bill asking for permission to re-enter the lease and use of these gas pipelines on an uninterrupted basis. Therefore, a big request is that you do not misrepresent information or use the law as a breather. If there is a government commission, let him do it immediately. And these are gas distribution networks that should belong directly to Ukrainian citizens, not to individual oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u149	Berezuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u150	Please pass the word to Vojcitsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, I ask you not to bend the laws, not to try European standards to shut down fraud. You and I in the Gas Market Act have made it clear that government property -- pipe, gas distribution networks -- should be returned to the state. Now NCRE demands that people pay Firthash for the property they have stolen. It's not fair at all. So the first thing to do is to get the state back and then talk about who and how and what wages will be taken from people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u152	Colleagues! And a line, Radical Party, Easy. And we'll vote in a minute. Please take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, there would be no thinning without good. This history of looting is drawing attention to the whole society, to the corruption that is being done in the gas market. At Yanukovic, at Azarov Firtash, Ljovczyn, and Boyko were given free of charge for the use of state and national property that people built for their own money. And to this day, with the support of power, they make billions on this property at the expense of the Ukrainians. That is why we all have a union here in Parliament. to remove the oligarchs from the gas market. Require the government to make a decision to expel these corrupt mediators so that Ukrainians do not pay their own wages for the corruption of the oligarchs under the cover of authority. Cancelling the decision on the subscription. And the resignation of the NCRECR. I want to remind you that the Radical Party faction did not vote on the NCREKP Act, which allowed the Roscheng Wolf to continue to sit as head of the NCRE KP rather than to resign.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u154	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports on the Induction of Service-Based and Military-Application Sports (No. 5616) on the basis of colleagues. Offered only as a basis. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please support our Committee of Youth and Sports. Please vote. [[12:07:07]] For 212 Colleagues, I'll be right back. Please take up your jobs. That's just the basis. We can make all the adjustments between the first and the second readings. I'm asking you not to leave the hall. I'll be back in a minute. Colleagues, please mobilize. Ready? I propose to go back to voting for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports No. 5616. Please vote for the return. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please support our Committee of Youth and Sports. Please vote. Vote. [[12:08:11]] For 224 Two votes, colleagues, please take your seats. I saw Logwinsky come in, the Mantis comes in. Please don't leave for a moment. Colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to return to draft Law 5616. Please vote, please support the return to 5616 "On Physical Culture and Sports." Please vote, please support. [[12:08:58]] For 235 We're back. And now I'm putting a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports (No. 5616) on the ground. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[12:09:25]] For 232 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I hereby declare a recess of 30 minutes. At 12:40, please arrive in the hall to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. And I'm asking you, dear fellow national MPs, to enter the hall to continue our work. Colleagues, I would like to point out that one of the functions of Parliament is a monitoring function and is equally important as a legislative function. Yesterday, we made an important decision to listen to the report of the four heads of institutions. And I am convinced that each of these reports should not be a five - minute action, but a thorough, serious analysis of each of those areas. And I am deeply convinced that this is an important function of Parliament. We will listen to all four leaders who have been summoned by Parliament and for whom decisions have been made. And each of those conversations should be a thorough, serious analysis of work in one direction or another. I would stress that all four leaders in Parliament will have a thorough report and a thorough report. Today the head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency, Korczak Natalia Mikolayevna, is invited. Wait a minute, I'll tell you what's going on. 10 minutes -- for the report, 15 minutes -- a question to the reporter, and then, as usual, we have a procedure, statements from factions and groups and statements from the national MPs. Thus, we will be able to discuss the matter seriously, thoroughly. Colleagues, is there a general agreement? Then I invite you to speak to the Head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency, Korczak Natalia Mikolayovna. Mrs. Natale, 10 minutes. There'll be a signal in 30 seconds to the end, if necessary, I'll give you time or 30 seconds or a minute. Please, Mrs. Natala. Attention, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u156	Good afternoon! First of all, I would like to thank the people's deputies for being able to speak from this high rostrum. The National Anti-Corruption Agency is the central executive authority that, I emphasize, is responsible and accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 20 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, we prepared a draft national report by April 1 and sent it to the Cabinet of Ministers, the body to which we are accountable. I sincerely hope that the Cabinet of Ministers will carry out its duty and will review and send a draft national report to the Supreme Council, prepared by us, by April 15. To date, anticorruption policies have become the cornerstone of the social stage of nationhood. And it's not just our foreign partners and donors talking about it, but society is already talking about it. And the need for revolutionary change in the fight against corruption is already an axiom for all the average citizens of Ukraine. There's no secret to anyone that any revolutionary change is possible only because of conflict. Today we have the opportunity to see a conflict between the old system of governance and the new democratic governance, between bureaucracy and the new generation of governance, between those who are really fighting corruption, and those who are just imitating such a struggle. And I would like to take this opportunity to inform the Supreme Council and the people of Ukraine that, despite the fierce resistance that exists in relation to the national agency, the national agency has taken place as a state institution. We've gone through our founding and now we're in the process of building up, and we're aware that we're not all going smoothly. There are a lot of questions about the functioning of both the register of electronic declarations and the conduct of checks, and of those who, in ministries, have to deal with the opposition of corruption at the local level, i.e. the state-authorized ones. There are also problems in the National Agency itself, which has to do with the collegiality of administration, the distribution of powers, and, above all, the proper level of performance placed on individual members of the national agency of authority. We see these problems, we talk openly about these problems, we hold constant broad consultations with all the stakeholders, and above all with the public and foreign partners. So it's no coincidence that it was on March 30 that I addressed an open letter to the National Police, the NABU, the Attorney General's Office, the National Security Council to deal with the situation surrounding the administration of the electronic declaration system. In addition, the National Agency is preparing a lawsuit for a state-owned enterprise called the Ukrainian Special Systems, which is the administrator of the state registry for non-compliance with the final terms of the contract, and I'm paying attention to the economic contract and ensuring the smooth implementation. the operation of the register and the inefficient use of the budget they receive. Understanding the social resonance that has emerged recently around the individual directions of the national agency, on April 3, this year, I turned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as the only body to which we are legally accountable and to whom we are accountable. In my address, I ask Parliament to organize as soon as possible an independent external evaluation of the effectiveness of the activities of the National Agency as a whole, the functioning of the register in particular, and the personal contribution of each member of the national agency to the development of this body and to the performance of their duties. The committee is invited to include both national deputies and representatives of civil society, as well as international experts and lawyers, so that the results of an independent audit are exclusively addressed. I am also invited to send my staff to conduct an independent audit and to the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of the United States in Ukraine, Mrs. Jovanovic, as well as the head of the European Union representation in Ukraine, Mr. Mingarelli. And this week, we're going to have a proper negotiation. I think that any amendment to the law that regulates the activities of the National Agency to the conclusions of an independent international audit will not only be premature but also short-sighted. Such actions may highlight, or more faithfully, the not great, but still the first gains we have from the work of our agency. And at the end of my speech, I would like to thank the deputies once again for listening to me. And I assure you that as long as I'm head, the National Agency will operate within the legal field and perform the functions assigned to this institution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u157	Thank you, Natalia Mikolayevna. Now it's 15 minutes. Please remain on the rostrum, Natalia Mikolayevna. And, colleagues who want to ask questions, not by raising their hands, but by pressing the button. Please record the question to Corczak Natalia Mikolayovna. Please record. Not by raising your hands, but by writing through the "Race" system. Sweet John, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u158	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Mrs. Natalia, I have a few questions for you. First of all, please tell me and explain to the community and the MP's corps, from which the miracle of last year at the end of the year you gave yourself a premium of 200,000 bracelets for each member of the NAZK. That's the first question. The second question I have for you. Please tell me about the electronic declaration. Why haven't you started an electronic verification of declarations that should be linked to the relevant registers by now? Because it goes like this, we're electronically giving out declarations, and then by post you almost send everything to the pigeons and you get written answers. And that's why, because of this practice, you have a random test of declarations that question the impartiality of NAZK's work. Because if you were to check thoroughly, there would be no questions, and you're doing it selectively right now. Answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u159	Regarding premiums. There have been no illegal acts on my part. This issue has already been resolved as a result of the NABU’s appeal to the Ministry. To the Cabinet of Ministers. That's why it's not an accident to ask -- look, I'm asking you to initiate an international audit. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's just that everyone else is afraid. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's the first one. No one went beyond the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Regarding the verification of electronic declarations. [[B in m in s a l in]] Notice that we have the responsibility for the direction of our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u160	For the sake of the fact that we didn't have the votes, I do want an audit to be conducted, which, the experts of the commission will be able to effectively confirm the circumstances, the charges. Because today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u161	Colleagues, please rest in the hall, colleagues! We're having a serious conversation. Please give me a chance to make a deal, and please remain calm in the hall. Please, Natalia Mikolayevna. You're done, aren't you? [[B in m in s a l in]] Next question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u162	In our time, we received it. This one was a bonus.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u163	Colleagues, pay attention! Please, calm down in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u164	Let's finish the answer, then there'll be another question. Please, Natalia Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u165	No, this month 87,000, last week's property change.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u166	Attention, colleagues! Next question, Wojciekhovska Svetlana Mikhailovna Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u167	Timoshenko, please give it to Yuri Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u168	Colleagues, please, everyone, I ask you to calm down and sit down, colleagues. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u169	Natalia Mikolayevna, as a member of the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee, I very much hope that you will remain in this position for a while. I have a specific question for you. You just said that in your activities you are fully accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and only her. And why didn't you consult back then and ask us if we allow you, or if we don't allow you to write out these bonuses -- 1.5 million dollars from one of those wages over the year on average. What excuse do you have, what actions, what results will you justify your salary, which you have drawn from the pockets of the Ukrainian people?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u170	Please, Natalia Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, pay attention to what I have said and what is written in the law. We are accountable to the Cabinet of Ministers, and we are accountable to the Supreme Council. And that's why within the auditorium, we're going to give an answer. However, do not abuse people’s trust, nor do you burn disputes that are painful to society over the issue of wages. My wages are not higher than anti-corruption agencies, and it is in the law that this body should be independent.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u172	Thank you. Mrs. Natala, here's the next question. But there is a request from the deputies for direct answers to the question. Please, Bereza Borislav Yuhimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u173	Mrs. Korczak, I am a member of the Supreme Council. I'm addressing you as a representative of the Ukrainian Supreme Legislature, and I'm asking you, what kind of bonus did you give yourself, first? What's the second one for? And thirdly, why hasn't there been a stress test of the system, and why hasn't there been an expert evaluation yet, does the electronic declaration system really work or doesn't work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u174	The answer to these questions comes professionally after the conclusions of an independent audit. [[B in m in s a l in]] You've all had the opportunity to ask questions, and every question we ask is the same answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u175	Mrs. Natalie. Attention, attention, colleagues! Mrs. Natalie, me. Calm down, colleagues, calm down. Natalia Mikolayevna, I have great respect for both you and the national deputies. People's deputies are the higher legislature of the state. When they ask a simple question, there must be a simple answer, Mrs. Natalie, a direct and simple answer. It's fair, it's fair. Please, Mrs. Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u176	The prizes were in August, October, November, everything. And it wasn't about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u177	Colleagues! Name the amount.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u178	Within. Two hundred thousand dollars was a bonus, but these bonuses were all paid for the job. Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u179	Answer received, colleagues, response received. Next up, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Please, Mrs. Natala.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u180	Our agency. For your job. What kind of work? Here you go.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u181	Guys, calm down! You.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u182	Don't be embarrassed. That's it. It's a job.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u183	The amount was given. And, colleagues, I ask for more peace of mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u184	The mechanism for financing political parties has been launched, and the electronic declaration process has been launched. That's what we can't hide. [[B in m in s a l in]] A steady work is being done to detect the prevention of corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u185	Colleagues, pay attention! I'll ask you. I demand a show of respect for the hall, but please also in the Hall of Respect for one another. All recorded, in sequence. Please do not shout out of the hall, but ask questions in the sequence, as is recorded. Do you have a deal, colleagues? Have respect for one another. Please, from the "Peter Dust Block" spores Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u186	John Sporish, Winnie. I ask you to pass the word to Alexander Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u187	Dear colleagues! I have to say that in the rostrum, it's not just the NAZK manager, it's the woman in the rostrum. And I think that the form of our communication should be changed and should be valid in all the emotions and passions that are involved. But, Natalia Mikolayevna, I want to ask you a question as an engineer. Please tell me, what is the technical problem with what the system depends on, that thousands and thousands of people cannot enter and work effectively? That's the first question, engineering. And the second political issue. You told the international commission to consider the contribution of every member of the NAMK. What do you mean? It's an internal conflict.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u188	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u189	Explain, please. Because no one cares about internal conflict. And all the declarants are the problem of your internal conflict.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u190	Please, Natalia Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u191	Depending on how the declaration system works in part of the failure. We don't happen to have a system administrator. And I would like to stress that this was actually a decision of the leadership of the state to transfer experts to the administration of this system, professionals who are state-owned U.S.S.S.A., with whom we have a contractual relationship. And we also want answers to questions that are constantly being asked. That's why we want to initiate this issue of auditory efficiency. Regarding the contribution of each member of the National Agency, it is regrettable that the law is laid down in such a form that each member of the National Agency is an independent person. And all I have is the function of organizing and coordinating their work. And when it comes to how we can ask why we are not done or underworked, we are in a condition of independence.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u192	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u193	there is no solution to the problem that today raises the question: Where are the results of the test, why did the conflict arise? Therefore, the practice of the body’s activities must be taken into account if the Law on the Prevention of Corruption is to be amended. And there won't be a violation. Each lawyer will say that practice is sometimes the way legislation can be improved. And only after they're crushed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u194	Thank you. You're done, aren't you? Then the next Kostenko Pavlov Petrovich. Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u195	Mrs. Natalia, hello! I'd like to know how you can see the solution to the problem of a permanent non-working register of declarations that was just made for all citizens to see the declarations of all officials? How do you see the responsibility for continuing problems with the work of this register of the State Service for Special Liaison? That's question number one. Question number two. In the declarations of how many high-ranking people, I mean the level of president, national MPs, members of government, the anti-corruption agency found a violation?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u196	Please, Natalia Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u197	As to the first question. I didn't happen to say that we're preparing a lawsuit right now. And so today we've got an act, an act of acceptance, where we've seen that in a period of collapse in the system, the state-owned enterprise USS didn't even want to exclude the funds. And now, at the level of pretentious work, we're trying to settle these issues. Yet, no one gives us an answer to the problem of these failures. Why? Because all proposals for strengthening the hardware component of the electronic declaration system have been fully implemented by the national agency. It's all been recorded under the cameras, it's already been heard by public activists, and that's what we hear all the time from a variety of performances. So in order to translate the discussion into a legal field, we need to carry out this independent evaluation. The issue of detected infringements in the course of the tests.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u198	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u199	After the procedure for carrying out the tests was established, Ruslan Stanislavovich Radecki took the meeting and we made the first decision on the officers and then made other decisions during our activities regarding the initiation of the tests involving the interrogations. Today there are 76 questions, 76 of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u200	Please, 30 more seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u201	The questions about what the intermediate results of the Declarations are now are, I don't get them from Mr. Soviet. We asked this question at the meeting, and we put it on the agenda. And so when the question arises: How can I get these men to my senses if the law does not give me such weights? Who am I going to talk to? Hence, the problem that exists with regard to the activities of members of the national agency is known.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u202	Please, Rybchin gives Sergey Vlasenko the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u203	Thank you. Mrs. Corchik, during your report, I wanted to hear from you, first of all, why didn't the system work during the first wave of declaration? One. The other one. Why did the system not work during the second wave of declarant? What have you personally done as head of the agency between the first wave of declaration and the second wave of declaration? Since you are personally organizing the work of a national agency under the law, you are personally responsible. If you're saying that the system administrator is responsible for everything, let's get you out of office, put a system administrator in your place and ask him why it doesn't work. I wanted to hear from you why there are no tests? What are some of the results of tests that you may have made on a one - time basis? Instead, I heard some reflection on the subject of the legislative field, something else. So I'm asking you to answer simply, first of all, that you're personally the head of the agency.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u204	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u205	What did you personally as the head of the agency do between the first and the second waves of electronic declaration in order not to have any malfunctions in the system? What have you personally done to check out declarations that occurred at the first moment of declaration? At least answer these two questions. And if you haven't done anything, then the question is, why do you get a salary and a bonus?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u206	I'm explaining again because it's not always clear that I'm saying or that I don't want to. When it comes to that, you think that the National Agency and I, as heads, have done nothing in the first place. We worked with the system administrator, and we worked with him to remedy our shortcomings. But the technical software and the continuous functioning of the register is the work of the system administrator. Yet our experts. We've addressed them in letters, we've addressed them personally, we've got evidence, we've confirmed that everything we've been offered has been quickly removed. And what's more, our employees were in the USS and at a time when the system was operating today and there were crashes, and every action was fixed. That is why we want to find out the reasons why there are no answers in the courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u207	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u208	Regarding the conduct of the tests, I, as the head of the national agency, sometimes closed my eyes on the decisions that Mr. Soviety had proposed in order to get the tests started as quickly as possible. And the decisions that were offered were made.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u209	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u210	I cannot force a department, personally a member of the national agency responsible for this direction of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u211	Okay. Last question, Burbak Maksim Yuriovich. And after that, the factions come from the factions. Please, Maxim Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u212	Mrs. Natal, at the Faculty of Law of the University of Chernobyl, where you also taught me, we were taught because the irreversibility, the responsibility for our positions, taught us to take responsibility and to have courage in making decisions. Please tell me, when this hall, at the initiative of the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk, was created the highest authority to combat NAMK corruption, which will verify the possible facts of corruption of the authorities, we gave you a mandate of trust. Even after the first, there was a declaration, when the server fell, we gave you the opportunity to make amends, now it's not just a reaction to Parliament. You know how you're "loved" by the 3,000 officials you've criminalized for misappropriation. That's my question. Do you have the courage to write a statement and resign because you have converted from a body to fight corruption to a body of collegiate inactivity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u213	I am very happy to have a conversation, as they say, with one of my students again. Thus, it may have been necessary to put two together for training. [[B in m in s a l in]] So once again, I say, a life that is around. Why don't you listen?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u214	Please listen to the answer, colleagues. Colleagues, please listen to the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u215	I'm not kidding. In order to complete these assumptions, there is a need for independent audit. And after conclusions, you can clearly say what happened.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u216	Thank you, Natalia Mikolayevna. We've got factions coming from the factions now. Natalia Mikolayevna, you can take your place in the government's bed. Thank you for the report. Thank you for the answers to these questions. And now I'm asking you to record the performances from the MP factions and groups for three minutes. Please hold the recording. And I'm asking everyone who wants to sign up to do the recording. Berezuk Oleg Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u217	Your Honour, Mr. Head! The noble lords of the fellow MPs! Madam Head of NAZK. I want to tell all of you that this Parliament and this State, for the first time in their history, has created, and we think, a successful NAZK agency that for the first time in history has done what no one else has done: the introduction of electronic declarations, the introduction of verification mechanisms, the introduction of technical mechanisms. And I want to tell you that today we need to thank both parliament and NAZK's head, and I'm sure it's not perfect. But I'm also convinced that if it wasn't for this woman, there wouldn't be electronic declarations in this form. And that's why you can scream as much as you want, because some of you who live through it make $200,000 in theirs, like vassals and slaves, to their owners, not $200,000, but $200,000. That's why. [[B in m in s a l in]] Keep On Crying for Health! Keep On Crying for Health! Mistakes are, and errors are systemic. Mistakes are, and errors are systemic. So today, Parliament, NAZK must gather all its resources to resolve systemic mistakes, not to look for fleas where they are not there. Moreover, the head of NAZK says that she was powerless before a special public service: the State Special Liaison Service, which today has placed the entire Ukrainian State ahead of its high - quality function. So point to mistakes. Madam Head of NAZK, do not give in to provocation, stand and defend the interest of the state in the institution that the Ukrainian people have given you the privilege of leading. Everything else is going to be a routine parliamentary job, and there's nothing to scream about: declare and answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u218	Sevrukov Vladislav Volodymyrovich, faction of the Dust Block. He's giving Melniczuk the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, well, look at me, I've listened to a lot of calls from the county that no one can file a declaration. Like you, I was worried about it, and just like you, I couldn't get this declaration on the NAZK site on time. It's all clear. Today, man heard what he had to hear. But I suggest you think of the following: Mr. Rybosapek was here with her, and Mr. Radecki was here with her, and I am ashamed to answer many of those questions that they were not working. She said honestly that they're all independent and she doesn't have enough influence on them. Let's turn the situation around a little bit differently. We're all independent here, too, and we've chosen our leader, the Head of the Supreme Council. And each of you can ask what you have done not to ask MPs to come back from the buffet so as not to ask MPs to leave the room when they need to vote. Fifty-fifty, boys! We can ask each of us questions, but let us be just and understand what it is to direct people who are independent. You're all independent here. Each of you has been given independence by the people. So let's do it. Right, I'm supporting the party faction's head. Let us all help, not be provoked, but continue that work and set our shoulders on it. That's what justice is all about. And everyone has to come from the buffet on time. Look at you in the hall! We're listening to NAZK's head today, there's no half room. The head of the Supreme Council will soon hear what you are doing to make them sit in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u220	Thank you. Since there was a call for me, Mr. John, I'm going to give you special factions statistics and say, when they went to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, no one was going to say, "I'm going to be an MP, but I'm sorry, I can't go to the session." I don't think anyone's talking. Everyone made a promise to attend the session. And that's why I think our presence in this room is our shared responsibility. Every day I'm down here from the rostrum, inviting MPs into the hall, kicking them out of the cafeteria. Let's all work together on this and make Parliament work, colleagues. It must be a collective responsibility and a collective initiative. Help the Head of the Supreme Council, and Parliament will work effectively. Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Surrenders Sergei Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u221	Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich! Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we move to a professional discussion in this Parliament. A professional discussion is that Mrs. Korczak did not adopt the Prevention of Corruption Act. The Law on Prevention of Corruption, which introduced an electronic declaration for MPs, adopted this Parliament. This is position number one. For me, as a professional person, it's very strange to see the position of the head of the central executive authority, who on the one hand says, "And I can't do anything; and I can't do anything; and everything is decided by the system administrator; but I'm going to stay in my post, I'm not going to do anything, and let it go on as it goes on. Actually, the question to Mrs. Korczak is not about the disadvantage of the law that is. Ms. Korczak’s question arose because the first wave of electronic declaration had not been fully prepared and failed. The question to Mrs. Korczak is that she, as the director of the agency, took no lessons from the failure that she, as the director of the agency, had done nothing personally and had not organized the work of the agency in order to avoid the mistakes that had occurred during the first wave of electronic declaration, and that at the second wave of electronic declaration we had all the same mistakes that we had when we had the weeks of registering, no one could go there for weeks. For some reason the Ukrainian official, no matter how the cones fell on him, but instead of sitting and working on people, he had to sit there all day and click on the button to enter the register and give his electronic declaration, because for failing an electronic declaration, criminal responsibility. They're already with the MPs, but a simple official who provides services directly to people was also unable to submit his electronic declaration. But it goes to Mrs. Korczak's rostrum, which says, "I don't influence it, I don't answer for it, I can't do anything here, the system administrator is responsible for everything. But I'm not going anywhere, I'm going to keep sitting, I'm going to do nothing, I'm going to do nothing, I'm going to do nothing, I'm going to do nothing, I'm going to do nothing, I'm going to do nothing, I'm going to do nothing, I'm going to do nothing, So for me, it's all still looking like, you know, some cheese. On the one hand, we've put in place a completely correct, quality mechanism called "electronic declaration" and we've created an agency that should run. But unfortunately, this agency is headed by a man who can't lead this agency by his professional qualities or by his human qualities and his normal functioning. We're told that we work in college bodies, so we all work in college bodies, both in the Supreme Council, and in the Supreme Council committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u222	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u223	Thank you. And on the Committees of the Supreme Council, we have work, and we have different political powers, different positions. But we can organize our work and work properly. So here's one thing for me today: unfortunately, the head of the National Agency is (a) a non-professional person, and (b) unfortunately, a person who, in his own qualities, is unable to organize a job properly. And then I'm sure we should be looking for another candidate. Maybe that system administrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u224	Thank you. Please, from "The Will of the People" Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u225	"The will of the people," Sergey Melniczuk. Good day, dear colleagues, good day, Ukrainian people. Yes, we've adopted a good law, we've created a good agency, but as we can see, it's imperfect, it needs to be improved. Yes, he's imperfect and the head of this agency. And we saw her defend herself when everyone attacked her. To put it this way, there is no need to blame this woman, for there is real reason to believe that those who were to give her information sabotaged the process. Therefore, we need to appoint a commission and find out what the situation is. Perhaps more than one, the director of the agency needs to be photographed. Perhaps there are other leaders of other departments who sabotaged the process. And to be clear, why did this happen? Is there any other reason? Someone did not want to show off his possessions, hide them, and so on. Therefore, this situation needs to be fully understood. And the reality of the agency itself, really the initiatives of those that were being carried out, is a bonus for actually shutting down the job. The fact that the first, second wave of the declaration has collapsed, covering each other, and the inability of the equipment to work. And initiatives, that ordinary citizens also have to make e-declarations, we do. Grandmother in the village has to make a declaration. Well, that's funny at all. So the situation needs to be considered. And the "will of the people" group about really putting into perspective the fact that they're depriving the head of their powers. But we have to conduct an honest audit on everything related to this agency, the departments of profile, and the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, I just want to let you know. In the discussion, I'll give you my word. We don't make decisions, we listen. Why, for example, do I think it's right to do it on Wednesday at 12.30. We have the opportunity to give full consideration to the issues, and look at the number of deputies in the room where the work is active and active. Today we are discussing and studying the issue in order to make recommendations, but today we are not making decisions. It's from the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u227	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mrs. Natal! I'm addressing the head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency. It's reported to those Ukrainians, who are mostly older people, who are sitting next to the radio right now, in villages, pensioners who have worked hard for 30 years, 40, 50 years of internship, and they get a thousand-and-a-half thousand dollars of pension. And these people are listening on the radio. Dear Mrs. Natal, I'm addressing you and I'd like your attention. As we listened attentively to you, I hope that you will listen to me as carefully as possible. Since the twentieth time, dear Mrs. Natale, please, I demand your attention. And respect for our voters, who voted for us by 1.5 million. You've been on the 20th time you've been asked, on this stand, you've admitted that you've received a prize of 200,000 dollars. I think that in many people who have heard this, perhaps even the heart has become. Because they don't have the ability to buy a pack of pills. On the 15th occasion, you admitted that you had a salary of 90,000 dollars a month. I don't get "toad," God forbid, you get that salary, you get the job. You don't have a job. Because of your inaction, millions of officials, no matter how you treat officials, but these are people, they're Ukrainian citizens. You can't humiliate them, you can't torture them. When a person travels from a village to fill out that electronic declaration and spends a week in a paradise, he can't provide data all the time, because you get a premium of 200,000, and you can't set up a register. You can't set up an electronic register, contact our talented students at the National University of KPI! They'll give you a $300 register and a website and everything in the world! And you spend tens of millions of dollars on these registers where people can't make these declarations! On the other hand, dear Mrs. Natalia, the issue of justice. And when you, as the head of NAZK, wrote out a $200,000 bonus and apparently not once, please tell me, did you not shake your hand to get a job bonus that you did not do?Oh, my God! You didn't provide the NAZC organization, you come out here, you're sorry, my grandmother's shop, you're bringing gossip, rumors and dirty underwear that you're doing at NAZK! I'd be there in five minutes. You get that kind of salary, pensions! You can't tell the order! Mrs. Natalie, maybe you're a decent person, maybe you're a good teacher, I don't know. But I can see for certain that you are not in your place! You've got the wrong job. Your actions, your conduct discredits Ukraine and the fight against corruption! Make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u228	From the People's Front, Burbak Maxim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u229	Dear colleagues! I would first like to thank the Speaker of Parliament for finally returning to the role of parliamentary control. That not only do we make the necessary reforms, not only do we create bodies to combat corruption, but we also analyze their activities, and should influence the decision-making process if something is wrong. We created organs pretty quickly, maybe with errors. But courage is that mistakes must be recognized and corrected. We all realize that the second wave, like the first wave, it's gone cold that the server didn't work, but it's already the result of the total inactivity of this organ. But we need to think now about how we can correct these mistakes. And that's why I think the first thing we need to do is make a full reboot of NAM and NAM system. Secondly, we need to make decisions about changing people in NAMC's governing bodies. And then we bring it to a new format, and we have a contest, like we've already had a proper competition at SAP and NABU. And this competition needs to be held as soon as possible so that NAZC is prepared for the next wave of e-declaration. Next, we need to limit our new leadership to a baseless sum of bonuses. Because when you have 1.5 million dollars for a job that has collapsed, that is certainly not true. You know, Mrs. Natalia, I'm a major deputy, and every time I'm asked, "Dear Mr. Deputies, why do you charge yourself 17,000 dollars and we live on a minimum pension?" So I can tell the people who can hear us right now that the NAZC members accounted for 230,000 dollars a month for the busy work. Let us also ask these questions. Next, I am confident that the format of the annual audit of NAMC activities should be introduced and staff decisions should be made on the basis of the decision of the audit. And that will be fair, that will be right, and there will be no references to the public, to the international institutions and everything else. Do your job well. I'd still like to finish. You said I should put in a two. I understand and I am confident that this will not turn into political persecution with regard to the declaration that I have filled out on time. But what I would like to say is that you are now being put on by Parliament and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Take a nap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u230	Opposition Block, Igor Shurma, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u231	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I have to tell you that the creation of NAMK is really revolutionary. A revolutionary event in Ukraine. And all had great hope that officials, not only of past authority but of today’s authority and future authority, would today be transparent in their reporting of their assets. I don't have any. There's no problem for Natalia Mikolayevna. I'd like to say that today there's a hybrid, hypertrophic attitude to responsibility. I would like to remind you that she was the head of the NAMC meeting. NAZK was appointed by the government. The government, headed by the ex-premier, has voted its composition here, in the hall, by coalition. Dear people, citizens of Ukraine, you must know for what is happening today the political responsibility and coalition that has appointed the government of Yatsenuk, who has elected Mrs. Korczak as a member of NAZK and later as her head. This event today should be a lesson for the future, which it does not. A baby can be born at nine months old, and it can be born at five months old. But it will be full and healthy when it allows nature to do so. These are all created new structures, and they will only be effective when the ground is prepared, especially the personnel, then the material and technical ones, and then the decision will be made. And today, as a representative of the Opposition Block, I'm just embarrassed to see you eat each other up in your desire to make the head of NAZK guilty. But you gather at a coalition meeting, how many factions are there today -- two, three. The faction that sits in Communist sites apparently has not dedicated these places, and today it considers itself an opposition. So let's get together and look for a way out. I sat at night, just like everyone else, trying to give up my data. And I can tell you that if I had cards in my hands, it would be dirty. But if we are building a future Ukraine, we need to be able to cross ourselves and have the dignity to admit our mistakes. So stop banging NAZK's head, get together for coalitions and decide how to fix this job, don't embarrass Ukraine in front of your eyes, as you say, our foreign partners. And to the head of NAZK I have only one request. Don't go to international audit, there's enough external management of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u232	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u233	Like some, others lead Ukraine into failure. We don't have anyone to check you out, do our audit? If you don’t like the people living in Ukraine today and can conduct audits, perhaps there is a question that you don’t live and work in that country? We don't trust our citizens, we don't trust ourselves, we don't have a state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u234	The factions of the factions are over, colleagues, and now he's speaking from the National Deputies. So I ask the national MPs who are willing to speak to prepare for the recording. I remind you that the recording is provided not by a raised hand, but by writing, I ask you to be very careful about the recording. 15 minutes to the Nationals. Please record. Mustafa Najem, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u235	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address our Supreme Council and Mrs. Korczak right now. In fact, we did a revolutionary thing when we created NAMK. In fact, over the last six months we've seen the results of this organ. I must admit that this body, like other organs, has become a political instrument. We have seen that over the past six months, the NAZK agency has not been able to verify the declarations of those officials, including the national MPs who are sitting in this room, who have not done business for a day, have not made any money outside the government. We know that there are also MPs in this room who have declared millions of dollars, millions of dollars, but they haven't worked in business for a day, they've made this money in government offices, and NAZK has been silent about this. We've been filing these statements, our colleague, I'll be speaking directly, Mr. Lazko, who is not here, no day without a job in the business, no day without earning money, declared a million dollars, an apartment, a car, while he was as journalist as well as I, as other colleagues here. So, according to our statement, there was no check on him or on the other people who were sitting here and didn't make that money for any day. At this point NAZK was checking people who got 500 dollars in bonuses, I'm talking about Mrs. Maruszewski, they were checking people who were reading lectures, I'm talking about NABA workers, and that's the same NAZK that was going to check money. When we talk about what the Anti-Corruption Agency should be, we expected Mrs. Korczak to talk every day at press conferences about how many deputies they handed over to the NAB. Now we know that only 10 cases, I emphasize, that all the declarations that you've seen in this country, these billions that have been declared, are only 10 cases transferred to NABA, that's just what surprised NAZK. This is in the IMF memorandum, which is signed, this is in the government's references to the IMF. I mean, 10 declarations that are surprising. What surprised us all is that millions of Ukrainian citizens who are sitting here, in fact, as our colleague says, are listening to the radio that goes to the resorts itself, resting for tens of thousands of dollars, people sitting here talking about protecting people from corruption and taking the money themselves. The faction leaders, the party leaders, these people who are resting, please look where they are in the summer, and all these people are now coming to Mrs. Korczak, who says they have to fight corruption, because she didn't do it. And the last thing I want to say. We support the resignation of Mrs. Korczak. But I'd like to hear what's going to happen next. I have a feeling that one of the factions of Parliament that is most supportive of this is now going to take control of NAMK, put their people and most of them in this agency. Unfortunately, if that happens, it's this faction that is to blame for this organ.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u236	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u237	This faction will be blamed for the fact that NAZC will be transformed into an organ tomorrow that will continue to persecute MPs on these declarations. I want to emphasize, this is the second wave of declarations. The first moment everyone forgot, they said to everyone in their eyes, "Yeah, we robbed the country, we made billions." And no one's gonna check that out. And now they want to take control of the body that's going to be checked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u238	Colleagues, I have this recommendation. Look, it's got a three-minute system. Let's give it a minute, and then more people will act. Will it be okay, colleagues? Then please write down the speeches for a minute, not for three minutes. More people will speak. And from now on. Anointed renders the word “Jurius Timoshenko. ” Please, Mr. Yuri, one minute. And they're all still one minute at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u239	Mrs. Natal, in my life, I'm a simple person. I want to address you, not as an MP, but as a representative of the people. I don't have a dime of business, I live on one salary. I haven't received a single bonus in years. And yet, every month, I give a third of my salary to people for charity. Why? Because I'm ashamed of them, I'm ashamed of all of us! And you're getting a 200 grand bonus by ripping the last piece out of a poor pensioner's mouth, aren't you ashamed? Just tell me, are you ashamed or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u240	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u241	Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Natalia and the agency staff! I want to say that today, of course, there is a sharp and serious discussion, because we are essentially appreciating the work of the first stage of an extremely important anti-corruption body. Does anyone have doubts about the very fact of creation, of the selection of workers, of what they should do? No, of course not. The question arose as to how technically the Agency could perform its functions today. I would also feel that it would be right for everyone to arrange for help. The other one. Perhaps there is a point today to speed up the selection of the same independent audiences that should actually give a qualified assessment of the work of this anti-corruption body. It's in a legal way, not because of public commissions, involvement of foreign partners, and so on. We know how they work. That's why I'm calling everyone to the Consolidation, to the Agency's assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u242	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Denis Silantiev. Please, Cooper. National MP Kuprienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u243	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Dear colleagues! What did we see today in the rostrum of the Supreme Council? We have seen total disrespect for the Ukrainian Parliament in the parliamentary-presidential Republic. NAZK’s head is confident and convinced that there is nothing we can do. We can't force them to get cloudy wages. We can't force them not to get 200,000 bonuses. We can't finally get out of office. What are they doing? They must prevent corruption. All they've been able to do is not even set up the register and send out a list of people who don't know who are in the hall, according to tax checks, of the letters where they indicate that we haven't declared. Our assets don't match our incomes, because, you see, according to their version, we all came to Parliament naked, bossy and hairless. They took the 13th and 14th years' income, according to our declarations, and they were comparable. Before that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u244	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u245	And before that, according to NAZK, we didn't work anywhere, we didn't buy anything, and we don't even know where we fell from. Not enough, they require the taxpayer to pay taxes, to collect taxes, and then to say: “Judge. ” If someone does not already know, contact your tax collectors for your residence, and you will learn interesting things. So what does NAZK do? Prevention of corruption or the visibility of activities?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u246	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u247	They did what they wanted. The register doesn't work. Give me the money. What do you think, Kabin said he'll give 100 million to a job that's not worth five. So where's the corruption, Mrs. Korczak?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u248	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Mikola Velichovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u249	Dear fellow Ukrainians who are now watching and listening to the Supreme Council! You know, the second row in a row the Supreme Council has allocated for the needs of the National Agency to prevent corruption as much as they give us and how much they ask for. You know, and I'm surprised why you've been spending money for the second year, and they're telling us today, they can't explain what the money's going on. You know, I think it's fair to admit that the anti-corruption agency has failed its activities. And let's face it, we need to choose a new NAZC composition openly, publicly, with public participation, just like we did with NAZA. We remember choosing the NABA, and we see what the result is. So I think that involvement and publicity in the chosen NAMC composition is this very moment and a mechanism that will allow us to avoid what we have right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u250	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Anton Heratchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u251	Dear colleagues, I can tell you that the situation with the National, the NAZC, you're going to have to hurry up and make people laugh. When it came to the establishment of an electronic declaration system, very few people had the courage to say that a system that was created without a State order without technology rules would be a mess for our country. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear friends, come on, I'll finish the speech. I want to draw the attention of the NAMC leaders today, and I want to draw the attention of the NAMC leaders to the fact that the system is not adequately protected. The system is not adequately protected so that it is not breached as Russian intelligence and has not made the system fully available to its agents. Therefore, I ask the NAMC leadership to take steps to protect the databases from possible break-ins while you are in your seats until a new law is passed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u252	Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to the floor of National Deputy Constantine Matheichenko. You don't? People's deputy Roman Semenha. Oh, is there a Mathichenko? Please, Mathichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u253	The word is given to Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u254	Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u255	Dear colleagues, we are here to discuss and decide what we will do to improve the effectiveness of this body. Instead, look at what the discussion turned into. Someone tells of slaves, masters, and they themselves are trashing all over Ukraine. Someone says someone wants to conquer NAZK. It can't be. We want us to have an open public competition to replace all the positions of the oran that discredited itself -- that's what we're talking about. We're talking about three thousand civil servants who haven't been able to file a declaration, and now they're criminally responsible. That's what we need to talk about. Instead, only pay is discussed here and who will lie beneath whom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u256	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy Tetjan Ostrikov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u257	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I want to point out that it's not as scary domestic garbage as it is political, and it's important to make fun of it in this room. The fact that officials and I have struggled with electronic declarations, I think it's a good thing. We finally felt what a simple Ukrainian accountant feels every month when he submits a declaration of VAT, and the DFS server hangs, and the accountants sit at night. So I want to ask you what is the common thing between VAT return registers and electronic declaration registers. Both of these registers do not work properly, both of which are dependent. Perhaps this is because someone sabotages the work. And you don’t have to translate from a sick person’s head into a healthy person, you have to tell us what role the special government special service has to play in this sabotage. If there is such a reason, then you should talk about it publicly. And the second thing. Do not seek protection from the people, seek protection from the people. And people will protect you when you really start checking out top-corruption declarations, and when people see the real results of your work. Because you won't find protection in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u258	Andrew Lozov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u259	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. When you look at everything that's going on with the country today in the area of the so-called fight against corruption, when you're 70 million, think about it, when Dubilet, one of the best professionals in the country, says that for 7 million you can make a normal website, and we have in 70, Natala Mikolayevna does something that doesn't work. When we get out here, they fire up about fighting the corruption of one faction, and they're MPs on the list of this faction, and they don't talk about it when we have so-called honest fighters looking at a foreign city and telling everyone, and they're buying apartments in the center of Kiev 200 square meters, when we're not far away, there's a lot of mention of pensioners who have 1.5 thousand dollars in pension, when from this rostrum, fighters with corruption go with the oligarch Grigoristini to the restaurant of the VAO, where they eat more than they have a pension, I remember. Please give me 10 seconds, Andry Volodymyrovich. My grandmother called me and reminded me of an anecdote. When the Wolf is watching.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u260	Please, 30 seconds. 30 seconds, speak, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u261	He's looking at every single thing my parents do in the bedroom and he's like, "Oh, my God, these people forbid me to swing in my nose!" This applies to all fighters with the corruption of so - called and failed NAZK officials, and these flaming lovers of John Frank’s apartment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u262	And colleagues, last performance. The shepherd, Taras Timothy, passes it on to Jehor Sobolev. Colleagues, all right! I'll give you two non-fractionals. Dreviánko and Bereza It's post-faction. Colleagues, non-fractionals had no words at all, and everyone else had. I'll give it to you in one minute. And we're going to finish this discussion. Please, Mr. Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u263	As a result of this discussion, I propose two solutions. First. Mrs. Natalia needs to be clear about who is preventing her and proposing a way out of today’s total sabotage situation. The other one. The Supreme Council should think carefully, why did it happen that the agency doesn't work? Who was involved in the election of the members of the agency? And write a law that allows us to have a strong institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u264	Thank you. Now, Tree Mountain, a minute. And Borislav Bereza, one minute. And then there will be the final word of the reporter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u265	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party. We created a unique tool that worked. That is why it is important for us all national MPs and the whole country not to allow this tool to be destroyed. That's the first one. The other one. NAMK is not working properly. The NAZC manager is not working satisfactorily and is discrediting all this important and good idea that we have initiated. So our task, first of all, is to preserve the independence of NAMK. The other one. Pick a fifth NAZK member that no one has chosen so far. Third. To stop sabotage, including government, because it is up to the government to stop sabotage, and it is up to the government. Four. To do what is necessary to improve legislation. And including Mrs. Natalia did nothing in this part and did not offer the Supreme Council anything to do. So we have to resign our heads, or it has to retire itself, and we have to allow ourselves to be reelected among the members of the NAMF of another leader, and we have to complement the NAMC to be an independent body. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u266	Thank you. Borislav Bereza, one minute. And then there'll be Mrs. Natalia, closing word for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u267	The creation of NABA, NAZK and SAP was probably the most anticipated event in the history of Ukraine, because people believed that corruption could be overcome. Mrs. Corchik, understand, it's not a disgrace that you've given yourself a bonus, it's a shame that after this award, the system still doesn't work. It doesn't upset me, your bonus, it upsets me how the system works. So I'm giving you a hint: order, immediately order the system's expertise, which is why it doesn't work, why its permeability doesn't meet expectations, and why the stress test isn't done. Then you can prove your own, if that's true, innocence and you can show people who are guilty of not operating the system. If you cannot name the responsible person in the near future, the clean structure responsible for the collapse of the system, you will be to blame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u268	Colleagues, Kirilenko, one minute. Very brief, very brief, 1 minute, and we're done here. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u269	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Mrs. Natalia, we've discussed with you today about your work, your efficiency of work, you hear the reaction of the hall to your work. I want to tell you one thing. Last week, when there were problems with the declarations, we were approached by the Fatherland members, especially those working in the local self-government, who were unable to submit from the district centers of the declaration. A group of deputies came to see you on a special occasion, to NAZK. At 9 a.m., you weren't at work, just like all the members of the NAMC, except for one, Mr. Rybosapka. We were there for over an hour, so no one came to work. It's about the question of how to write bonuses. So I'm going to tell you that in these cases, they don't write off bonuses, but they do. Because, in fact, when we expect answers to our questions, we came specifically, and unfortunately, we couldn't get answers to those.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u270	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u271	And the second moment I have to tell you, Mrs. Natalie. In fact, the electronic declaration, the effectiveness of it, is not that everyone has to submit an electronic declaration, but rather that there is a total verification of electronic declarations. Well, you don't, and that's my main claim to you that electronic declaration has turned into fiction. We were supposed to serve it. There must be analysis, there must be conclusions, and society must know who's alive, what's worth. And then we're the only ones who can say what's real.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u272	Thank you. Colleagues, we have five minutes to complete. The next was on the list of Amelchenko, he insists. I know I missed it, I know. Last act, colleagues, one more minute. Please, Amelchenko gives Popov one minute. And then the closing word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u273	Dear colleagues, we've all discussed what claims we have to the National Anti-Corruption Agency. But what will happen next? We can't work at our level of management like the ones we criticize. We must as the Supreme Council perform our control function and make appropriate decisions. To set up a commission, to go to the American Embassy, that's the way of the Banana Republic. I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to appoint a committee of the Supreme Council to be responsible for countering and preventing corruption from performing this function. What's more, NAZK's been working for a year. According to the law, NAZK reports to the Supreme Council a year later. By the end of May, it's three days before we do, work, set personal responsibility, the degree of personal guilt of the Head of NAMK, the members of NAMK, the USS, and report to the Supreme Council, which the law changes. What's more, we know that the Ministry of Justice is now developing changes to the Anti-Corruption Act in the National Agency. And then the Supreme Council will rely on the professional evaluation, and the annual report, the annual work, and what was done, not done, and whether we need to change the law so much, on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u274	So, colleagues, now I'm giving Natalia Mikolayevna Korczak three minutes. From the rostrum or from where you are comfortable? Out of the way. Please turn on the microphone from there for up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u275	First of all, I really want to thank you for the experience I'm getting in the field, probably already in political work. Secondly, my initiative, the proposal to the Supreme Council to conduct an external independent audit, will be exactly the right way to find out, irrespective of any whims, political preferences, the issues that apply, first, why does the register fail, who is to blame? Second, to improve the management component of the national agency. And the third, the main thing, is to systematically and professionally amend the current anti-corruption law. Because we are now witnesses, there is practice, and now we need to improve existing legislation and it is a normal process. The National Agency should be checked by the Court of Auditors, understanding how the replacement takes place, the rotation of the members of the Court of Auditors? I understand that this could be part of the engagement of a reassessment of our activities. We only actually exist one year, and physically we're doing the activity from August 15. I've never been excused, I've never taken responsibility off my hands, and I'll answer for every penny. But let us not forget that the national agency is not only designed to launch the electronic declaration process, it is already running. And the first wave of declaration took place, and the second wave of declaration took place, and there are declarations in this basket. The National Agency has launched state control over the financing of political parties. It's also our face in front of the Europeans. And we're doing the current work called conflict of interest settlement, doing pre-planned tests, and we're talking to everyone who has one or the other material that needs confirmation. So thank you for your cooperation and encourage us to work together to resolve the question of how we can improve the quality of our body. Because it doesn't matter if I'm going to be the head right now, or if I'm not going to be the head, this register is not going to work any worse or better. But notice, only when the Prime Minister starts talking about something is there literally a systemic malfunction in the operation of this register. That's why I'm calling.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u276	Please, 30 seconds. You're done, aren't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u277	So thank you very much. And any constructive criticism is perceived by me. And let's work together for the benefit of the Ukrainian people, which we keep talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-05-m0.u278	Thank you. Dear colleagues, today we have gained an interesting experience of a very thorough discussion of the problems in society. Maybe this is the first time we've had too much emotion. But I stress, once again, what I said at the outset: the control function of Parliament is no less important than the legislative function. We need to, I think, maybe even implement as a practice, listen to one of the central organs every week, do a detailed analysis, but, colleagues, with a view to then determining how these problems need to be corrected. And I am convinced that on the basis of our deep, though emotional discussion, we should work out recommendations on how we can make sure that these problems do not continue to arise. Because it's really hard when, as Head of the Supreme Council for two years, I couldn't order an electronic declaration, and I imagine a deputy of the village council, or a soldier on the forerunner who would have filled in if we hadn't passed the law. We need to make decisions so that we can achieve our enormous achievements, both through NAMK and the NABU and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, so that we can improve their work and their activities. I'm sure we can sum up all the recommendations we've made. We're going to have a separate conversation, and I'm going to have a separate conversation with the Justice Minister, and I'm going to have a separate conversation with public officials so that we can work on a mechanism where we can make the work of the National Anti-Corruption Agency more effective and more effective, and we're going to demonstrate once again Parliament's ability to work effectively and work effectively. The question is now closed. The information is coming to light. And I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I would like to point out that we are going to have committees today, and I ask everyone to participate actively in the committees. At 6: 30 p.m., there will be a simple meeting with committee heads, just like every Wednesday. Thank you, colleagues. Successful and fruitful committee work. I'll see you later.
