ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, we're running out of time for a break. I'm asking you to come into the hall, get ready for registration. Please come into the hall, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, once again I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for work. I want to emphasize, today we've accepted, placed in order the day's issue of the status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. We put it in the agenda, there's a committee on it, and the first question will be in the vote. Colleagues, it's important for us to be able to look at the simplified procedure, because we have, at least, two bills, two black people. By April 26, we won't be working in plenary anymore. So I'm asking you, colleagues, to discipline, and I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and get ready for work. Please, colleagues. I'm asking you to come into the hall and get ready for work. Colleagues, I am convinced, there is no political opposition to the status of social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. This is a question that must be brought together. And I very much ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for registration. I ask the factions to invite all the deputies to the hall, please. Thank you. Two factions of the Radical Party and the People's Front announced the break. They're willing to take a break from the rostrum, and I invite you to say who? Easy. No, stop-stop, registration first. Oleg Valeriyovich, first the registration, then. So, colleagues, I'd like you to take up your jobs and have a check-in. Please register. [[16:05:17]] 366 deputies registered. The evening session, the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is open. And now, at the request of two factions -- the Radical Party and the People's Front -- I'm giving three minutes to make the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u2	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! I want to make an important message. I want to draw your attention to the problems of Ukrainian citizens who, because of the Russian occupation, have lost their home, who are not buying corners, whose social problems are unfortunately not solved by the Ukrainian state. As soon as I had my break with Mayor Donecka Alexander Lukyanck and our respectable colleague Yuhim Zviagiliski. They told me the number that shocked me. I want you all to hear this. In the last year of 2016, the occupation now paid US$ 1 billion and a half billion to Ukraine’s State budget. In the first quarter of this year occupied, but Ukrainian Donetsk paid to the State budget of Ukraine, stressing that Ukraine, occupied Donetsk, paid 240 million dollars. At the same time, nearly two million people — the people of Donetsk, Luhanskina — have no support, no support in renting housing, and no social problems. Instead of paying billions, for example, 80 million dollars goes to build a swimming pool in Kramatorsky. I'm behind the pool, but first of all, I'm asking millions of Ukrainians who are paying 5,000 dollars a month to rent an apartment so the state can help them with their housing. In Mariupola, we have, as a minimum, 10 unbuilt buildings for which there is no financing, in Kramatorsk, in Slavyansk, in Pokrovsk. I'm proposing to all of us to accept and we're about to prepare an appropriate bill, and I'm proposing to all the factions to join this bill, to foresee that all the funds that Donetskin pays, Lugansk, are going to go to the cashier's office to provide housing for the movers, to repair roads, to repair kindergartens and schools in Lugansk and in Donetsk. If the people in the occupation pay, we have to support them. Ukraine should not turn away from them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u3	Thank you. So, colleagues, please, there will be a vote now, entering the hall. Who is the representative of the Committee on Environmental Policy? Who is from the Committee on Environmental Policy? Are you ready to report questions 5594? Who should report from the committee? So, colleagues, I want to remind you, we've included a draft Law 5594 into the agenda before lunch, so after lunch, we can look at it. And now I'm going to have to move on to his consideration. But I'm wondering who from the committee can report it now. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. I'll wait a minute. Please call the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, I'll wait a minute until the MPs come together so we can move on to making a decision. Please come into the hall and take your seats. Colleagues, that's it. So, colleagues, we're going to wait another 30 seconds until the deputies enter the hall. I would like to remind you that by noon we had included a draft Act amending article 54 of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster (to strengthen social protection of certain categories) (5594). So we can now look at it from 16 hours ago, and accordingly I'm putting it right away, especially considering that we need to adopt these laws, because by 26 April, we're not going to have plenary sessions anymore. And I'm asking you, colleagues, to support the proposal to consider it in a reduced procedure, colleagues. I ask you to take up jobs and, in this case, to reject political discussions, and to support the consideration of reduced procedures, colleagues. Can I look forward to understanding the hall? I can. Then, colleagues, I propose to vote that the draft Act amending article 54 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster (to strengthen social protection of certain categories) (5594) be considered under a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:13:34]] For-127 We're not there yet. I'll wait a minute, colleagues. I would like to point out that we still have a number of important bills that stand in order of the day. If we go into the full procedure of this law, which unites the entire room, we just can't get any further consideration, we just won't be able to consider anything. I'll wait a minute, colleagues, and invite the deputies into the hall. I ask both the Supreme Council Secretariat and the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall. I'll wait, I'll wait a minute, and you'll invite the deputies into the hall. Colleagues, we all see the agenda, and we just can't get to the next question if we get to the full procedure, colleagues. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. In just a minute, I'm going to re-proposal, a reduced procedure. Please invite the deputies to the hall. So, colleagues, are you in the hall yet? I can put it to the vote again. Please take up jobs. Now I'm going to put a motion to the vote again. And, colleagues, please take your jobs. And I'm stressing again. We can simply fail to consider the following bills. I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm going to re-vote the proposal. The draft Act amending article 54 of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster (on strengthening social protection of certain categories) (5594) (5594) should be considered in the summary procedure. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. We'll hold it! We'll back you up, colleagues, niggers! We'll support the Social Bill. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, please, each voice has weight. Short-term procedure 5594. [[16:17:09]] For 158. Decision taken. The committee's later. I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Social Policy Shambir Mikola Ivanovich. Mikola Ivanovich, please report. Let the deputy minister go, colleagues. Let it pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u4	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill I am presenting is designed by the Ministry of Social Policy to address the issue of the granting of a pension after the loss of a breadwinner as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Today the situation is so that the pension after the loss of a breadwinner is granted only if the cause of death is determined with the Chernobyl accident. The draft Act proposes to amend article 54 to include the granting of the right to wives, to husbands of deceased persons in the number of participants in the elimination of the consequences of the accident at Chernobyl’s AES to receive a pension in connection with the loss of a breadwinner without further establishing the cause of death with the Chernobyl disaster. Today, there is already a disability associated with the Chernobyl accident in the relief work. This is why the Chernobyl community has long raised the question of not reiterating the causal link with the Chernobyl accident. The Ministry has supported this proposal and has brought this bill to your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u5	Thank you. From the committee to the report, from the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, Ednak Ostap. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u6	Dear colleagues of the National MPs, we are submitting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending article 54 of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster (on strengthening social protection of certain categories). As the Deputy Minister has already said, we propose amendments to article 54 of the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster, where, according to these changes, wives (men) who have lost a breadwinner in the number of participants in the liquidation of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident assigned to Category 1, of January 1, 2018, from the following year to grant the right to a pension in connection with the loss of a breadwinner irrespective of the causal link between the death of the breadwinners and the Chernobyl disaster. According to the explanatory note, the proposed amendments are intended to reverse the need to establish a causal link between death and the Chernobyl disaster only in the case of the acquisition of the right of women (men) to disabled persons, including participants in the liquidation of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident (category 1), to receive a pension in connection with the loss of a breadwinner. The adoption of the bill will require additional spending from the state budget, but from the following year. And the need for pension costs for the wives (men) of the numbered dead citizens will amount to over 174 million dollars. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and the Consequences of Disposal and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt as a basis and generally as a law a legislative initiative. I'd like you to support my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u7	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Danchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u8	Please hand it over to Oleg Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u9	Unfortunately, those people who have given up their lives, protecting lives, in large accounts, the people of the world today are not in equal competitive conditions, they have no quality pensions, most of them, many of them, for example, soldiers who have served in internal armies, have no pension at all. So any law that improves the lives of those who protect us will be useful. So there is a proposal to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u10	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Vuk Viktor Ivanovich is handing over Igor Mosiyczuk, right? Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u11	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear colleagues! Of course, the Radical Party faction will support this social bill aimed at supporting people who saved Ukraine from the greatest technological catastrophe of mankind. But that's not enough. Our faction insists on an immediate parliamentary review of the bill authoring the leader of our faction, Oleg Lášk, my fellow (4442), regarding the return of all the aids to liquidators and participants in the liquidation of the Chernobyl AES accident. We should do this now and today, on the eve of this tragedy's next year, but unfortunately, the reefs and barriers coalition won't want to return the benefits to those to whom they belong. Most of the Chernobylites live in my native Lubenščina and every time I visit their homelands, visiting Zazur-mountain, where the Memorial is located to the victims of the Holodomor, I see an increase in the number of shores that are being planted on the streets of the Chernobylites in memory of the dead participants and carnivores of the accident. I want to ask my colleagues right now to at least after this, these so-called imaginary vacations, as they are about to do, come back and consider the law that those who have saved the nation from destruction need.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u12	Helen Skrum is passing Eutuska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u13	Dear Ukrainians! For several years now, and I mean that both the previous government and now the current government are reducing all benefits for the Chernobylites. I remember our discussions, and Alexander Volodymyrna Kugel remembers them very well when we asked the previous government and the Prime Minister not to cancel the fourth zone for the Chernobylites, for those areas where this fourth zone provides for a lot of benefits. I'm sorry, it's very difficult to speak when you're intruding. So what I'd like to say now is that once those factions that voted for the state budget and then, and this time, are fully responsible for the fact that these benefits have been reduced. And when the fourth zone was abolished, respected colleagues, our children in the fourth zone were deprived of their food without any research, but were more affected in those areas than in other areas and areas of cancer. Without any research, they removed the fourth zone and it is not clear whether the adults are sick and those who have eliminated this human accident, a terrible accident, and are oncosa ill today? It's a good thing that this bill gives you the right, who lost the breadwinner, to get a pension, not just a pension, but also to be treated in a sanatorium. That's why "Paternity" will support the bill in general and on the basis of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u14	Thank you. Nechayev gives the word to the Royal Natalia. And, colleagues, there will be a vote in two minutes. Ah, another front, right? Well, four minutes from now. Please invite everyone into the hall and ask the factions to mobilize the factions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, as it is not bitter to admit, the Chernobyl theme in Parliament begins to sound only before the anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, when everyone remembers how much they experience and care about the liquidator heroes. And I think it's a shame for the government to mention the social protection of Chernobyl once a year, although this should be one of the priorities of the social policy of the state. Regrettably, the active government, on the other hand, proves that it is completely lacking in understanding of the extent to which it has committed social injustices against the Chernobylites and their families. The violation of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine since December 2014 has destroyed the social protection of the Chernobyl population to a catastrophic level in Ukraine. And I call for decent social protection for the victims of the accident and CHAES, and, most importantly, for those who appreciate the cost of their own health, not only did the whole of Ukraine save the world from the consequences of the nuclear disaster. I thank you for your attention. I'm asking the speaker to declare a minute of silence and honour the memory of the dead Chernobyl heroes for the terrible tragedy that millions of people have died for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u16	Thank you. From the People's Front, please, Burbak Maxim. And, colleagues, I'm just asking for a little bit, we're just not going to get through. All right, I'll give you my word. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, the People's Front will support this bill because the People's Front is responsible for the political power of the state. And instead of standing on the rostrum, pouring tears and telling how they protect the people, they had to vote for the budget, which has increased the minimum wage to 3 000 200, which has increased the wages of our students by 50 percent, by 30 percent to our health workers, that's what they're saying. So it's work, not words. Now let's go back to. I want to add, it's a mistake to correct and report that after the number of participants has been written to eliminate the consequences of the accident in Chernobyl, add the words "other nuclear accidents and nuclear tests." We have already adopted a bill that has been granted benefits and recognized as a participant in the Chernobyl tragedy to those citizens who have suffered nuclear tests. Let us not forget them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u18	Thank you. And one more minute, I've been walking around, and we're going to vote, and I'm going to ask everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Please turn on the walkie-talkie microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u19	Of course, the Rebirth Party Group will support this bill. But the Rebirth Party thinks our bill, developed by my colleagues from the Rebirth Party group, 6292 greatly expands the benefits to all black people. So the Rebirth Party group insists on the next week. Our bill was passed for weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u20	Thank you. Colleagues, discussion over. Please take up your jobs and prepare for your decision, colleagues. Please, I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. From the committee: don't you object to Burbak's edit? Please turn on the microphone of Mikola Ivanovich Shambir for 30 seconds. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u21	The amendment proposed by the distinguished national MP cannot be self - imposed and the preceding paragraph will need to be amended. So from my point of view, it can't be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u22	I'll put in technical law. Okay, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 54 of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster (on strengthening the social protection of certain categories) (number 5594), on the proposal of the Committee, on the basis of and in general, with technical legal rights. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:32:06]] For 262 Decision taken. Colleagues, there's a proposal right now, we're going to have another Chernobyl bill, let's carry on and now let's look at it, but very concisely and briefly. Is it supported? He's in two. Colleagues, I just couldn't figure out when they'd be standing. I'm now voting on the proposal. Draft Act amending article 48 of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster (5,297) to move and consider quickly and in a concise manner. Please support this proposal to move it and consider it now. Please vote, colleagues, please support. It's through two laws, it's a technical transfer. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote and support. [[16:33:07]] For 238. We've moved on. And now I'm asking for a very concise report and a discussion. I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Social Policy Shambor Mikola. No, no, it's a reduced procedure first, colleagues. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote on the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[16:33:39]] For-188. 188 – a.k.a. Decision taken. And now to the report of Deputy Minister of Social Policy Shambir Mikola Ivanovich. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill I am introducing has been drafted by the Ministry of Social Policy in the first place to remedy the technical error that came about after the adoption of the law of 21 April 2016, number 1339. This law, when introducing in article 48 the possibility of payouts for persons who participated in the elimination of the consequences of other nuclear accidents, created a situation where they were deprived of annual assistance for the recovery of children with disabilities and persons evacuated from the alienation zone in 1986. It is to settle this issue and to restore the right to receive one-off assistance that a bill has been prepared every year to assist these categories. Some technical refinements are also made to article 48. This deals with the issue of the payment of one-off disability compensation, and it also addresses the issue of the payment of annual one-time health care to victims of the Chernobyl accident. Please accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u24	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee’s subcommittee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Moskalenko Jaroslav Mikolaiovich. Please, Mr. Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u25	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, the bill proposes to correct the technical error that resulted in the loss of children who lost one of their parents as a result of the Chernobyl disaster and were evacuated from the alienation zone in 1986. Draft law 57. 5297, with changes to part two of article 48, renews this right. The changes to part 1 of article 48 also specify the standard for the payment of one - time compensation to a wife or husband if he or she has not married for the second time in connection with the loss of a breadwinner. There is no need for additional expenditure from the State budget. Costs for the payments of the listed categories of citizens are foreseen in 2017, and the Ministry of Social Policy has been recognized as the principal manager of these funds. The Committee on Environmental Policy, the Environment and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, having considered draft Law 5297, recommends that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis for the first reading. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u26	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you as much as possible. Please record: two for, two for, please. Fish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u27	I ask you to pass the word to Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u28	Dear colleagues! Deputies! Of course, the Peter Prashenko faction will support this bill, it is extremely important. I want to remind you that 31st anniversary of the accident on Chernobyl, which we will be. of which we will talk for days is a reminder that we have failed to fulfill our obligations to humans, to liquidators, to those who have done their civic duty, and, more precisely, to perform a feat in their own time. And to this day, I want to remind you that the State Program or the new state strategy for overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl accident is still being developed, and we are extremely concerned that it does not address the social protection of people and the health-related issues of the Chernobylites, the decommissioners, the people living in the polluted territories. So this bill, at least one element of our appreciation. That's why I'm underlining: an important bill. Please, everyone, without exception, all factions support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u29	Thank you. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u30	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this is a social bill that Fatherland is willing to support not only in general, but also in general. I will say that an interfractional union has been created in the Ukrainian Parliament, which must be a communication bridge between those Chernobyl representatives and members of the Supreme Council, who will be bringing impulses to the state executive branch, and to the minister of profile, in order for the social program to be implemented, their rights have been upheld. I want to talk about it. You're one of the speakers who represented, more loyally, whose representative represented the previous government, that, as when you took down the fourth zone, "crocodiles of tears," as you said, pouring out of this rostrum, were pouring out of these babies, in which you took food without even asking them and not looking at them, without having done any research on whether they were ill with cancer more than in other areas and areas. I want to say that there are ten people in the reception room who are willing to kneel and ask for help for their children who are on their sick. And you're talking about some sort of "crocodiles of tears" that are pouring! There was no need to withdraw and vote for the state budget, which clearly provided for the removal of these benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u31	Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich passes it on to Lashkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u32	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Unfortunately, we have the Chernobylites, the respected colleagues, mentioned only until the next anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. Just as women are mentioned on March 8th, and there are other women who want to be taken away on March 8th. On March 8, women can only be taken away from their homes and impotents, who do not want to give women a bouquet of flowers, kiss a Ukrainian woman, hug her, and say that she is the best. So we suggest that the Chernobylites be mentioned not only for the Chernobyl disaster anniversary, but that the President's daily activities, the government, the parliamentary majority should be focused on solving people's problems. These people, whom we call the Chernobylites, have been through a long time since the Chernobyl disaster, many of whom have died at a young age. Because when invited by the Fatherland to protect peace from the nuclear plague, they never for a second thoughtlessly went to this hellfire and gave up their lives. Many of them are ill today. And they don't have the money for basic pills. We've shaken the government up with free drugs for hypertensives, for diabetics, for asthmatics. But I've been told by people and the media that this program doesn't work everywhere! So I demand from the government, from the Ministry of Health real control. To ensure that Ukrainian citizens receive free medication. And we insist that our bill 4442 on the restoration of Chernobyl's social laws be considered. So that what people deserve at the cost of their lives is at the cost of their health so that they can be considered by the State. To make sure that the nation remembers them. I'm talking to the young. Appreciate the Blackwaters! Remember those people who risked their lives for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u33	Colleagues, closing statement. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the decision. Sazko gives the word of Natalia to the Queen. Please. Two minutes to make a decision, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u34	Dear colleagues! Now we're looking at a project in an explanatory note that says the government is correcting a technical error. Think about it. Yes, it is not a technical error that needs to be addressed, but rather a deliberate and massive breakdown of the social protection system. I want to remind you, colleagues, that the anniversary of the Chernobyl accident is not just a reason to remember those terrible actions. But also to answer how the country now protects and supports its liquidator heroes. Unfortunately, the answer is very sad for the Chernobylites, and it's just shameful for an active government. The violation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, since December 14th, the social protection of the Chernobyl population has been destroyed to a catastrophic level. The Constitutional Court now examines the appeal of 50 national deputies. And we refer to both the Constitutional Court and the Parliament. We need to address the issue of social protection in a comprehensive way. Parliament has five drafts of the Opposition Block, which we have prepared together with the community organizations of the Chernobylites. And we think that the issue of social protection for Chernobyl should be a priority for both the government and for MPs not only on anniversary days, but constantly. So I urge you to provide social protection for the victims of the accident in CHAES. The Opposition Block will support this bill. And we ask the speaker to declare a moment of silence and honor the memory of the fallen heroes of Chernobyl. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u35	Colleagues, I ask everyone to prepare for decision-making and to take up jobs. Colleagues, please, an important social bill, please go back to work, we're going to make a decision. And I am voting on the draft Act amending article 48 of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster (No.5297) as a basis. At the committee's suggestion, on the basis. Please vote, please support. We're voting 5297 on the basis. [[16:45:31]] For 273 Decision taken. Colleagues, let's move on to the next question of order of the day. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving construction conditions (5587). I would like to emphasize that this is the second reading. The right hand is very small. There's only a few rights here. So I'm asking you to stay put and stay put, and we're going into the consideration of this bill. And I invite you to the report of the first deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, and the Andrieev Dmitry Josephovich. Mr. Dmitri, please. I'm asking everyone to stay put, there's very little right. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u36	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor Andrey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, it's a really simple bill. So what I'm going to say right now is that the ideology of this bill is to cancel out unnecessary permits, orders, agreement in construction, which are already included in state building rules and regulations. We went through the first reading with you. There were some doubts that they had been laid out in the papers, all of them 26, 11 counted, 15 rejected. But what I want to say to you is that the most controversial things, we've seen through the regulations that we've taken into account, we've foreseen to minimize any questions and there's going to be-there's going to be a lack of acceptance of this bill. And also, honourable colleagues, I would like to point out that the adoption of this bill will greatly improve the situation of arbitrary construction procedures. And we expect that only the adoption of this bill will allow Ukraine to move immediately into several positions in an extremely prestigious and influential Doing Business rating. This is the work that our government has to do, and the deputies of the Supreme Council have to lay their backs on our government. Dear colleagues, the committee has reviewed this bill for second reading. Once again, 26 suggestions and amendments, 11 counted, 15 rejected. Having considered and discussed at its meeting on 5 April 2017 the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the conditions for building activities (number 5587), the Committee decided to hold it for consideration. to submit it to the Supreme Council and recommend that it be accepted in the second reading and generally as a law. I would like to point out that the Chief Legal Authority has prepared a bill without notice. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u37	Colleagues, I'm asking you to go through the amendments very quickly, there are only a few, just a few. 1st, Solvar. Don't insist. 2nd, Sold to Oksana. Don't insist. What's the amendment, Mrs. Novak? Turn on Mrs. Novak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u38	Please put Mr. Andreyevsky's second law to confirm, and I think this law does not improve the business climate, but it does create further turmoil in the construction sector that is now taking place in our country and especially Kiev. Because, in fact, the State Department of Emergency Situations will now be unable to provide conditions where technological security and other security will be ensured. And yet I demand that the second amendment be confirmed, not voted on or voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u39	Please, Mr. Dmitri, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u40	The Honourable Natalia Vasilovna, the right of which is referred to, is also an amendment that has cleared up those conflicts that have arisen as a result of the fact that the law envisaged the abolition of the right and the ability of the DSNS authorities to make appropriate consents and to make appropriate conditions. This right allows us to perform a standardization function in the construction of civil protection and design and construction. Once again, if we vote and we don't confirm this amendment, there'll be a rule of law that completely forbids firefighters, the State Emergency Service to give any conditions for construction, it's just a compromise to take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u41	Colleagues, I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall, we're now voting on Amendment 2, and the committee is asking you to support it, so you need 226 votes, and I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats, I'm asking you to prepare for the vote, and I'm voting for Amendment 2 of Andreyevsky for confirmation. The committee and the committee head ask the deputies to support it and confirm the colleagues, this is the committee's work and the committee decided to support it, this amendment. I ask you to vote in favour of Amendment 2, please vote, please support, vote, colleagues, please. Dmitri's asking for support, yes, he's asking for support, please vote for everyone. [[16:51:01]] For 205 My colleagues, I'm going to put it again because I don't even have a reporter card. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs. I would like to emphasize, asking the committee and the committee head to support this amendment. Please, Mr. Dmitri, come back. I ask everyone to mobilize and take up jobs. Mr. Dmitri, did you get the card? Please. Now so the reporter can vote too.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u42	Colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u43	That's what we're voting for. Dmitri's already said his position. We already know what to support. Please support all your colleagues. I'm putting to the vote number two of Andreyevsky's national deputy, who is supported by the committee and the committee is asking for her support, which requires 226 votes. So I'm asking you to vote and I'm asking you to support number two, my colleague. Please take your seats, please vote and please support number two, colleagues. Vote, please support, please vote, please vote. [[16:52:22]] For 266 Decision taken. Next: 5th, Sold. He insists. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u44	Honourable Andrew Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, is proposed to remove from the current norm the obligation of the central executive body in the area of civil protection to provide the client’s initial data and requirements for the development and design of measures related to the authority’s permission. I believe that the responsibility of this body should remain. Let him continue to be obliged to provide the information that is needed for the customer on the customer’s request. So I'm asking, I'm stressing my amendment, and I'm asking you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u45	5 amendments, right, Mrs. Oksana? Mrs. Oksana, 5th Amendment. I'll bet. Yeah, 3rd, please, Mr. Dmitri, but it's fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u46	Dear colleagues! I want to point out once again that this amendment does not meet the concept and purpose of the bill. The aim of the bill is not to have any additional unnecessary consents and procedures that are already regulated by State acts in the case of DBN. So we've come to the conclusion that all of this is regulated in accordance with what you've now supported in the DDSN authorities, the ability to influence and determine appropriate civil protection measures in terms of design and construction remains. So this amendment just doesn't fit the content and idea of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u47	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote amendment number three of the People's Chamber of Commerce. The committee rejected her and the committee asked her not to support her. And I'm betting on a vote that supports the new number three of the People's Chamber of Commerce, please vote. [[16:54:18]] For-119 The decision is not taken. Next 5th. Do you insist, Mrs. Oksana? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u48	Dear colleagues! Just after the initiative of the committee, you failed the amendment that required the central authority to provide the customer with information that seemed to conflict with the concept. Then what's the concept? More opportunities for depriving the central authority. It's a very nice concept of a project. But the 5th amendment says that professional attestation can work not only for people who have higher education, but for people who are 10 years of age. If you don't support this amendment, a lot of people will be out of work for years. Please support the fifth amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u49	Mr. Dmitri, briefly, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u50	I'll comment very briefly. We have the next amendment where professional testing is allowed for citizens who have obtained higher education and a Bachelor's degree, a specialist, a master's degree, it's about leadership positions, it's not just about experience, it's about the proper baggage of knowledge. Therefore, the request is also rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u51	So I'm putting to the vote amendment number five of the People's Chamber of Commerce. The committee rejected her and the committee asked her not to vote. Anyone who supports the amendment number 5 of the People's Chamber of Commerce, please vote. [[16:56:01]] For-129 The decision is not taken. Declined. Eightth, Carpuntz. Don't insist. 11th, Capplin. Don't insist. 12th, Carpuntz. Don't insist. 14th, Dove. Don't insist. 15th, I was walking. Don't insist. 16th, Karpuntsov. Don't insist. 18th, Sold. He insists. Please, 18th, Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, I am now addressing a representative of the committee, because, in fact, according to the text and the last edition that we are given to get to know, this amendment is taken into account. So I'm asking you to pay attention. whether it's counted or not, because it's essentially counted, but the comment says it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u53	Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u54	Yes, actually, this article sounds like this. The technical conditions are a complex of conditions and requirements for the engineering of the construction facility, which should meet its accounting parameters for water supply, taking into account the requirements for fire, heat, electricity, gas, water supply, outdoor lighting, the removal of winter water and telecommunications. I mean, well, actually it's taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u55	Don't you insist on voting, ma'am? Because it's actually counted. Thank you. 21st. Don't you insist? 23rd. Don't insist. 25th. Yes, please, Mrs. Oksana Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, the project, which was before the first reading, predicted that it was a central body. The Cabinet of Ministers will approve a list of construction works that do not require documents that give them the right to perform them. The Cabinet was given the right to approve a list that did not require documents. I offered to confirm it. give Kabmin the right to approve the list that requires documents that allow them to be executed. Thus, anything that does not require a permit would not be necessary to obtain a permit. At the same time, I ask either to support my amendment or to reject the amendment that deleted the first edition. Because there's really no way that there's a document that doesn't need permission. Please support this amendment, which represents a hundred percent of the spirit written in "Explanatory" for the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u57	Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u58	Thank you. I think we can also turn here to the representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Deputy Prime Minister of Hennaday Grigorovich Zubko. But I would like to say that paragraph 4 of the bill was deleted at the time of the first reading, i.e. the amendment applied to the item that was deleted. But let's hear the vice-premier's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u59	Let's vote better.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u60	Then the request is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u61	Twenty-three repairs? Mrs. Oksana, 23rd, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u62	No, 25th is Karpuntsov. 25th is Karpuntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u63	23rd. Whoever supports amendment 23, People's Chamber of Commerce, please vote. The committee against it, the committee rejects it. Please vote. [[16:59:24]] For 106 106 – a.k.a. It's not a decision you make, colleagues. So we're done talking. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. Please, now. Only, Mr. Gennady, I'll bet another 4 on confirming the amendment after you speak. Please, just a minute. Gennady Zubko, turn on the microphone. Thank you for coming. And please state your position on this law. Please, Hennaday Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your active cooperation with the committee in general on legislation that really improves business. Secondly, it allows the country to rise in the building sector in Doing Business by 38 points. Thirdly, it allows us not to go to officials for too long to get the information that is already being obtained by every developer. And thirdly, this is just such a big step, I think in the last few years, in terms of the possibility of investing. So I would like to support this bill – and allow the country to make it into a higher Doing Business rating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u65	So we're taking jobs. I'm going to start by confirming 4 amendments to the insistence of the People's Deputies of Novak and only after that in general. So I'm putting the first vote to confirm the 4th amendment, this is the Andreyev amendment. The committee's asking her to support it. The committee asks for confirmation, 4 amendments, i.e. 226 votes, and then the law as a whole. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please take up your jobs. And I'm voting for the first vote to confirm the 4th amendment of the Andreyevsky People's Deputy. The committee is asking her to support it, and the committee is asking for her support. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please support Andreyevsky's 4th draft. Colleagues, every voice matters. Please take your seats and vote. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:01:39]] For 269 Decision taken. And I'm putting a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislation on improving the conditions for building activity (5587) on second reading and in general. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. We vote. [[17:02:12]] For 276 Decision taken, colleagues. And so we're done with the energy block. Welcome to the committee. Welcome to the vice-premiers. And now we're moving on to the next questions, this is a question of law enforcement. And we turn to the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to include information in the Single Register of Trial Investigations and Grounds for the Closure of Criminal Conduct (No. 6220). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:02:58]] For-198 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Denisenko Vadim Igorevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, today we have the Codex Codex Andrew Portnova. The essence of this standard is very simple: there is no basis in criminal proceedings for refusing to open criminal conduct. As a result, there has been a practice of repeated re-application of criminal offences, and additional pressure has been generated on the bodies of pretrial investigation and business. This standard was laid down by the Portuguese in order to be able to keep opposition politicians and businesses in position. The draft law proposes to supplement article 214 and provide grounds for refusing to include in the Single Register of Judicial Investigations the criminal offences against which a decision has been made to close criminal conduct, or there is a judgment of the court on the same charge that it has acquired legal force. It is also suggested that the first part of article 284 be completed and that the list of grounds for the closure of criminal conduct should be expanded if there is an unannounced decision of the investigator, the prosecutor for the closure of criminal conduct in the following cases, is an exhaustive list. The absence of criminal offences has been established; the absence of criminal offences has been established; the law has become effective, and the criminal responsibility for acts committed by a person has been abolished. And with regard to a person’s tax obligations, if an additional tax compromise has been reached. The draft law will allow for the dismantling of pretrial investigation bodies from a large number of duplicative criminal conducts, reduce pressure on business and prevent abuses and offences at the stage of pretrial investigation and ensure the legitimate rights and interests of citizens. Thank you. I would like to support this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u67	Please give the floor for the report to the head of the Committee on Legal Protection of Andrija Kozemyakin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u68	Dear Chairman and Honorary Fellows, the bill submitted by the Ukrainian People's Denisenko, Popov and others, number 6220, is precisely due to the fact that today there is an imperfect Criminal Procedure Code in Ukraine for part of the grounds that would serve as a basis for refusing to submit information to a single register and for closing criminal conduct. The purpose of this project, as the author has already said, is to regulate the legal basis for the introduction of information on criminal offences into the register and its closure. To this end, it is proposed that part of the first article 214 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure be supplemented by a new paragraph, which provides that no information is provided on the circumstances that may indicate that a criminal offence has been committed and that a decision has been taken to close criminal proceedings or that there is a judgment of the court on the same charge that it has acquired legal force. That's the first one. And the second. Part of first article 284 of the Ukrainian KPC should be supplemented by a new paragraph 10, which provides for criminal conduct. It predicts that criminal conduct is closed in the event of the existence of an unrepentant decision by the investigating prosecutor to close criminal conduct on the grounds provided for in paragraphs 1, 2, 4, 9 of this section. The committee at its meeting carefully considered the bill. And it was decided and voted that, during the first reading of this bill, the Supreme Council should be advised to accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u69	Thank you, my dear fellow! We're asking you to sign up for a bill. Please, two in favor, two in favor. Please, Mr. Popov passes the word to his colleague. Oh, from the rostrum, please, now. Cooper, of course, Mr. Kuprienko is just going to the rostrum. That's why I'm going to announce at the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u70	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Dear colleagues! I ask you to take this bill seriously. It's short, but it's right and urgent. But I suggest you make some stylistic amendment and you can vote in general. That's where the first change is, "They're not subject to a single state register of pretrial investigations," and to write, "Knowledge of a criminal offence whose reasons and circumstances were the subject of a decision by an investigator or a judge to close criminal proceedings." I'm explaining the difference. The text describes the circumstances. It was raining, wet, it was getting dark. It was getting dark - the situation, the wet - the action, the rain - the fact. And if we don't make these changes, we can manipulate the terms in the criminal process. If you change it stylistically, as I say, you can accept it as a whole and everything will be okay. And if we now take it as a basis in the first reading, and then we're going to talk about, then the second reading, it's going to be, like, maybe August or even September of the month. What do prosecutors do now, and what do prosecutors, investigative prosecutors, do? They take and make a new claim, on the same grounds, on the same grounds, criminal conduct. The same 214 is submitted over and over again, coming in with searches, putting, sorry, with a face on the asphalt, removing documents and everything else, and with that, I'm sorry, a prosecutor's license can only be fought by adopting this bill. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u71	Thank you, Mr. Kuprienko. Please, from the People's Front, National Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u72	Thank you. Please pass the word to Andrew Amazanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u73	Please turn on the Anointed Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u74	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, it is certainly a good idea. And we all know that the code that was developed in the days of Yanukovich and specifically the lawyer Andrew Portnoy is imperfect, and we really need to fight it, if not completely, with at least such partial elements. I am convinced that these positions, which are now being proposed by the authors, must be put into practice. But I do think that we should now listen to a committee of profiles that a colleague has made and not actually adopt this bill as a whole, and yet, I think it's impossible to correct this law in a stylistic or legal way right now. And so that we don't make mistakes with a good idea right now, I think we're going to support Mr. Cosemiekin, and we're actually voting on this law as a basis, we're going to work on it qualitatively, legally, correctly, literately, and actually I think there's going to be votes for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u75	Thank you. The National MP Sažko passes the word to Germany from the Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u76	Germany, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, anything you want to change, I'm the only thing I want to share with you and let you know. To date, security has come first with the rights and will of the people. It was in the U.S. only after 9/11, you know when. We have gangs, armed illegal organizations and people who are unarmed, how many and how many crimes are committed? I'll let you know for information. It only goes through the courts in a year to four months. up to 4 million administrative and criminal cases. It therefore suggests that it would be wrong to grant the right to decide whether to refuse to bring a criminal case and to refuse to enter the register without checking the circumstances. Look, to date, we have no serious crimes and very serious ones, in fact, not considered. Second question. To date, no one has the right to appeal against the person against whom the case is registered. And you don't have to put people in a position of insecurity. Therefore, the draft law proposed does not fall within the scope of the fight against crime and against socially dangerous acts, including criminal prosecution and criminal prosecution. Similarly, the adoption of the law in this way will lead to the misery we have been in since 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u77	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Maxim passes the word to Chicken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u78	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! Everybody knows you want to do a good job, talk to her. Today is a crucial day when, indeed, on a clean Thursday, on such a holy day, we continue to cleanse our Ukrainian legislation of the effects of the Janukovic regime's activities. The Criminal Procedure Code was adopted in 2012 when Yanukovic and his gang thought they were forever. They created such standards to "crush" Ukrainian citizens. Thousands of mutilated fates, thousands of mutilated lives of ordinary Ukrainians on the one hand, and, on the other hand, millions of bloodguilts of law - enforcement workers on the human mountain. That's why, colleagues, a very simple but very necessary law, let's do, in fact, a state matter, free our legislation from possible abuses of law enforcement. The fight against corruption, the fight against crime, must end a very profitable business. That's why the law is very clear, very simple, we vote for the basis and in general, and we're going to do a really, really good thing for the Ukrainian society. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u79	Yes, just a minute, please. I'll give, I'll give, but in a minute. Vlasenko, Sotnik, Sergey Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Paternality" undoubtedly supports the ideology set out in this bill. But, dear colleagues, let's stop adopting the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code and the Criminal Code, first of all, from the vote, second of all, on the basis of the whole. Here I had heard a statement before, by the way, a professional colleague who was the first to make a statement, perhaps it's the right thing to do, but let's stop applying oral remedies in the Criminal Code and in the Criminal Procedure Code. Criminal legislation, criminal and procedural legislation is a micro-surgery of law. And you, and you, you know, have your teeth cut! I understand a gentleman there from WFP who was speaking, who I don't know exactly what law is, who started to speak with slogans and nothing else. The law is fine, the ideology is right, let's work it out and adopt it in legal procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u81	Thank you. Please, Olena Sotnik. Aren't you finished? Please. I'm sorry, Mrs. Helena. 30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u82	And I would like to remind the chairman that if there is a denial of MPs, we cannot put the bill to the vote as a whole. I object to this bill as a whole because I have rights to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u83	Please, Olena Sotnik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u84	Thank you. Is there really a problem in persecuting business today because of the crime of the same facts? Yes, there is. On this day, the only profiter is the prosecutor’s office and law enforcement agencies. But I have to disappoint you, this bill will not solve the business problem. Because no one prevents the investigator from actually taking another qualification, rewriting the facts, and again violating criminal conduct. I'm telling you, as a lawyer, unfortunately, you don't solve this business problem. Instead, you're creating three key problems if a bill comes in. First. Most of the Majdan cases were closed and reopened in connection with the need to continue the investigation. This rule, it's going to have reverse action, which means you're going to put Yanukovich and other criminal lawyers on trial, and you're going to give them the opportunity to sue these cases. The other one. What you're saying here is that if you can actually do a background check on a criminal case, it'll create a problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u85	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u86	This will create a problem for the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, because no one will interfere with the decision of the investigator anywhere in Kramatski, or in Mikolayev, or in another city, away from the center, and for example, to close the criminal conduct behind the corruption article and then the National Anti-Corruption Bureau behind the article will no longer be able to violate criminal conduct. And the last. This bill did not count, and what to do if the victims did not count, if the victim was not involved, then criminal conduct without his knowledge closes, takes 10 days, and in fact he will not be able to protect himself in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u87	Finish up, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u88	So I want to ask you very much if we want to adopt laws that will help, and business and people have to be tested. That's why this bill is now being passed on as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u89	Please, Sergey Melniczuk. And, colleagues, I'd like you to come into the hall and take your seats. That's the last one. It was called a so-called name, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u90	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. The bill is waiting for all the business and not only because according to a bill by a bunch of prosecutors, gangs who have settled in other seemingly anti-corruption structures are simply from businessmen and from other people who can happen by the hands of these people, they suck up the last thing they have left. They eat themselves, and people are led to poverty in a better pauper, or hanger. Therefore, it is necessary to adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u91	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And there was a last name. Please, Chicken, one minute. Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u92	Dear colleagues! The point is, the point is, I want to answer to the honourable MP, the distinguished colleague, the many-year-old national deputy who has just spoken to me, because of your inaction in 2012, you allowed the Yanuković regime to adopt the repressive Criminal Procedure Code and thereby destroyed a very large number of ordinary Ukrainian lives. That's why, dear friends, curb Yanukovich in yourself, curb Yanukovich in yourself, cleanse our legislation from repression, open up real freedom for Ukrainian society. We are voting in general because there is no discussion here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u93	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to include information in the Single Register of Trial Investigations and Grounds for the Closure of Criminal Conduct (6220), on the basis of a committee proposal. Please vote, please support me as a base. On the basis of the vote, please support. [[17:21:11]] For 258. 257, in favor, the decision is made. Please, head of the committee. [[Noise Nodes]] Guys, I'm sorry. I have a committee decision: in general. [[Noise Nodes]] I don't have a committee decision. My colleagues, I'm sorry, I have a committee decision: just on a basis. I don't have a committee decision, in general. I'm sorry, colleagues. [[Noise Nodes]] Colleagues, colleagues, I'm sorry, colleagues. I don't have a committee decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] My colleagues, I'm sorry, this is a criminal court order. There's a committee decision, and I'm asking. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, head of the committee. Please, Cosmiakin Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, I would like to briefly explain why the committee, when considering this bill, recommended that the Supreme Council accept as a basis. To date, the logic of article 214 of the Criminal Procedure Code is that all statements coming to the prosecutor, the investigator, should be registered – a European requirement. We've changed this code and made changes, you know, all applications have to be made. This time. Second, there was a dispute. I mean, one part of the deputies asked for, insisted on canceling 214 articles at all. And the other is that, by the way, I support you to leave a new version of article 284 with paragraph 10. I mean, when a statement comes out, he's been investigating for 24 hours, checking out decisions. Any other court rulings in 24 hours? Impossible. That's why he's here. The application is registered, but after he reveals it, he does.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u95	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u96	According to article 284, paragraph 10, he cancels, that is, does not consider the application, and its consideration is terminated in accordance with paragraph 1, 2, 4, 9, of this article. With the Minister of Justice, I've just discussed this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u97	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I have a committee decision: on the basis -- and we voted on the basis. We move on to the next issue of the agenda. Draft Law on Private Detective Activities (3726). This is a question of second reading, and I invite the chairman of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Law Enforcement Activities of Kožemjakina Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please. 3726.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u98	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! your opinion is suggested to consider the Comparative Table prepared by the Committee for Second Reading, the Private Detective (Search) Act (3726). It's a bill that's been ready for a long time, but unfortunately, it didn't reach him. Now, officially in Ukraine, such activities as detective activity are not regulated by legislation, but they are actually carried out by individuals and businesses alike. The adoption of the selected project will make it possible to legalize this type of activity, remove it from the shadows, and establish civilized rules of the game. Experience in other countries shows that the presence of private detective activity increases the responsibility of the State’s law enforcement system to regulate the needs of citizens and society. The bill was designed to take into account the experience of similar laws in other countries. It defines the legal principles of private detective search activity, reflects the tasks and principles of such activity. The project is clearly defined. First. What is a private detective activity; who can be a private detective; how can he carry it out; his rights and duties. Types of private detective services provided to private detectives Third. Grounds for the issue and cancellation of the witness. Four. Order of control and supervision of private detective search activities. At the same time, the committee was not conceptually defined on two important issues. It is a private detective’s education, whether a person should have a very high level, only a higher level of legal education; and an authority of state to perform arbitrary and supervisory functions in relation to private detectives: either the National Police of Ukraine, or the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that in the first edition of the edition, the National Police of Ukraine remained the regulator. Some of our colleagues, Olena Sotnik, Vasil Guljav, proposed as governor of the Ministry of Justice. And we suggest we identify these changes in the hall. As far as the bill is concerned, we have 313 proposals, amendments. 86 — the committee counted 33 — partly, 56 — editorially. So I've turned it down to 125. Most of the amendments that have been rejected refer to the procedure for private investigators to apply. Then the committee proposes to identify the issues of private detective education, which is central and important. I suggest to the Supreme Council, too, that we decide on all the amendments and make technical legal adjustments, and adopt this law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u99	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like to ask you as much as possible. This is really my big request. And I'm betting now, 2 amendments, Captain. He insists, doesn't he? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u100	Colleagues, 6 amendments, it refers to the question of whether a detective is entrepreneurial, or whether a private detective is a self - employed, more specifically a person. My amendment was taken into account in editorial terms, that is, in part. I'm asking you to put it on confirmation. And to take fully into account that the detective is a self-employed person. Because it's not entrepreneurship by analogy with legal activity, with notary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u101	Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u102	Andrew Volodymyrovich, well, we've talked about all the amendments with almost all the deputies. But here we have this amendment rejected because there is a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe on services in the internal market for 2006. And there's this notion of service. So the notion of "service" by its scope is narrower than the notion of "activity." That's it. So that's why it's rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u103	Thank you. Whoever supports Amendment No. 6 of the Stonik People's Deputy, the Committee has considered it in part, please vote on who supports the 6th Amendment. Please vote. [[17:29:07]] For-162 Decision taken. 17th, Romanowski. Don't insist. 20th, I was walking. Don't insist. 21st, Mishchenka. Don't insist. 25th, Romanowski. Don't insist. 31st, Sold. Don't insist. 36th, Captain. Don't insist. 43rd, Romanowski. Don't insist. 46th, Romanowski. Don't insist. 47th, Captain. Don't insist. 50th, Teteruk. 41st Amendment, insists Captain. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u104	41st, 42nd, 44th, they predict.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u105	42nd, accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u106	Yeah, I'm putting them on the stand. Because they predict that a contract for detective services can be free. This is in conflict with the directive you were asked to make. If you need to make a Pro bono contract, you can put it down for 1 bracelet. And in this case, you're creating a risk that there's actually going to be a tax evasion. So 41y, 42y and 44 amendments I'm asking for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u107	Colleagues, I ask you now, these are three revisions that make up a whole proposal, and the committee has supported them. The committee requests support for these amendments. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. And I'm betting on confirmation of amendment number 41, which the committee supported. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:31:05]] For 184 The decision is not taken. 42 axles. Asking the committee to support her, the committee counted her. Please mobilize, please vote, please support. Please vote, colleagues, 42nd for confirmation. [[17:31:29]] For-163 And 43 is rejected. So let's move on. 50th, Teteruk. Don't insist. 55th, Teteruk. Don't insist. 58th, Teteruk. Don't insist. 60th, Anointed. Don't insist. 67th, Sold. Don't insist. 79th. Teteruk. Don't insist. 84th, Yatzenka. Don't insist. Are you insisting? Turn on Teteruca, please, one minute, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u108	This right is about making a private detective a person who speaks the national language and has full legal education. I ask you to cancel and disregard the word "legal" and leave only higher education. That would be enough to allow a person to work as a private investigator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u109	Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u110	Andry Volodymyrovich, we have this 59th, it's edited. It was edited and included in article 1 of this project. But that's exactly the situation I was talking about. So this is one of the issues that caused contradictions. About education. I mean, the detective does. He should have only a legal education or he could have any education to work as a private investigator. Well, for example, the Ministry of Defence pensioners, they don't have all the legal education, but they have military higher education, and they can work as private detectives. That's why it's here. Well, that, let's say, is objective. But we have to put it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u111	Do you insist on voting? Are you satisfied with your position?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u112	No, no, like I said. Yes, I do. No, we have to solve this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u113	Set it up, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u114	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u115	That's 69, right? I'm voting 69 of Teteruk's amendment. In this edition, marked by Teteruk under the stenogram. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u116	Andrew Volodymyrovich, the committee did not decide on the mandatory availability of a higher level of legal education for a private detective. So on the basis of part three of article 118 of the Supreme Council Rules, I would ask that this matter be resolved by the Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u117	Please. So I'm putting 69 copies of the People's Deputy Teteruk in the part that was wired under the transcript. Anyone who supports this position, please vote, please support. [[17:34:25]] For 172 The decision is not made. All right. That's what we've been through 74 years, Jurko. Then, in the end, you'll remember, we've been looking at 102 just now. 113th, Spanov. Don't insist. 117th, Sotnik. Don't insist. 121st, Anointed. Don't insist. 124th, Captain. Please, 124th, Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u118	Colleagues, I think that's actually the key dilemma of this bill, which the government authority will monitor the quality of this detective activity, and especially who will be giving testimony to the detectives and checking their qualifications. We insist that this should be done by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine because there is a conflict of interest in the National Police in view of the fact that in fact private detective activity is part of the activity that overlaps with law enforcement. That's why it's appropriate. Moreover, according to the National Police Act, this is not part of their mandate. I therefore propose to support this amendment, which is established by the supervisory authority of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u119	Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u120	Colleagues. I'd like to go to the session room and ask to vote on this amendment right now, because this is the main amendment that caused the contradictions, all of them, they're not as important as this one. So private detective activity is controlled by the National Police of Ukraine or the Ministry of Justice. This amendment proposes that this initiative be taken by the Ministry of Justice. Both the authors and the developers and Minust support this amendment, so please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u121	Whoever supports the amendment of 124 People's Deputies, please vote, please vote. [[17:36:42]] For 237 Decision taken. Next. 130th, Teteruk. Don't insist. 136th. Don't insist. 143rd. Don't insist. 146th. Don't insist. The 151st. Don't insist. 156th. Don't insist. Colleagues! 154th. Lechenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u122	Lewchenko, Freedom 223 District, Kiev City. The situation of article 7 needs to be complemented by provisions on clear requirements to determine the order in which the detective’s testimony is received. Because there's really no absolutely right requirements in the bill. So I would like to add that the testimony is given on the basis of the results of the qualification test, the post-training test. It's very important that, in fact, there's a confirmation of what a detective is supposed to do with proper preparation? Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u123	Please. I'll put it to a vote, Andrew. Whoever supports the amendment of 154 People's Deputies of Lehchenk, please vote. The committee rejected her, please vote. [[17:38:03]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, let's say who's still insisting on repairs?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u124	Olenna, where the amendments are made.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u125	Turn on the microphone, Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u126	Thank you. In view of what we voted in favour of the Ministry of Justice, I ask for confirmation of 313 of the amendment of Teteruk, "Transitional and Final Positions" on the granting of powers to the Police Department on the control of detective activity in the Ukrainian National Police Act, because it makes sense if we establish that this is the Ministry of Justice in the National Police, there is no need for any of these powers. So please place 313 amendments on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u127	This is not for confirmation, but it is for the amendment of Elena Sotnik 313, which does not make the decision. Whoever supports the 313th Amendment proposal, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u128	No, on the contrary, it's Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u129	Explain to Mr. Andrew, explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u130	But I don't think it's a principle, so if it doesn't go away, it's okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u131	How do I vote? I'm putting in a proposal for Helen Stotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u132	For confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u133	To confirm Elena Stotnik's offer, 313, colleagues, I'm putting 313 on confirmation. The committee's offering to support it, isn't it, Andrew? Please vote in favour of the 313 amendment. Please vote, colleagues. Please support me, this is the revision of Teteruk. [[17:39:48]] For-143 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. 74th Last Amendment, Colleagues. I'm asking you to come into the hall. Heads of factions and the Secretary of the Supreme Council would like to invite representatives to the Hall. Last update. Lechenko, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u134	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. One of the major problems with this bill is that it essentially provides grounds for the employment of former police officers in so-called detective agencies. In particular, according to the bill, a private investigator may be a Ukrainian citizen who speaks a national language, has a higher legal education, has a special training course for private detective activity or has an operating job. at least three years in operational units or in pre-trial investigation bodies. However, there are no rules on understanding what special preparation is for private detective activity and who can and will pass the bill. Thus, in fact, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine can create conditions when only former police officers will be the detectives. And that's why my amendment is exactly suggesting that we replace this requirement for internships in operational units with legal internships. And the length of legal work is determined by a person’s work as a specialist after he has obtained a full legal education. So, really, we could do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u135	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u136	So we could really make this profession available to all people who could do it. What's more, it makes sense that people would do it outside the militia system, not out of the militia system. Because if you don't, you're essentially creating conditions when the same police officers are only going to work on other bases. This is the same police state system. That's not the way to vote for it. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u137	Therefore, who supports the amendment of the People’s Deputy Levchenk, please vote. [[17:42:02]] For-137 137. The decision is not made. And, colleagues, so we can move on to the adoption of the law. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, and I put it to a vote. Everyone, please come into the hall, take your jobs. Draft Law on Private Detective Activities (No.3726) on second reading and in general with technical and legal rights. Please vote. Please support 3726 as a whole with technical remedies. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:42:56]] For 261 Decision taken. The law is passed. Welcome to the bill's author, welcome to the committee. Please, one minute, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u138	My colleagues, thank you very much. It's a historic event today, because, really, we're getting out of the shadow of a private detective activity that has long existed in Ukraine, but today we've clearly put it within the legal framework, and that's fittingly normal for a country that's going. Live by the law. Colleagues, I'd like to speak to the chairman and to you. We have a bill that's been talked about for a year and a half. This is a bill that amends article 72 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which is related to. This law, so-called "the law of the Savechenko Hope." We've changed it, we've changed it, we've done it, we've done it, and now it's waiting, but unfortunately, a little bit later. If we put it up by ad hoc now, I'd like you to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u139	Colleagues, pay attention! Attention, colleagues. I'm asking for your attention. We're now 1744. I mean, the next is the law, the draft decree that we just need to consider today, is the bill of release from office of the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Colleagues, I'm, I'm asking for your attention right now. After this law, which is next, I will make a proposal to Cosemiakin so that we can pass the law of Saucenco and vote now. I'm just asking in the hall of discipline, I'm asking everyone to stay in their seats. I also have a statement from two factions about the break, and they're willing to replace it with a speech. I have to give you time to do the show now, and then we move on to 6354. I'm begging you now. Who will speak from you? Who will act? Excuse me? Chess. Please, Shahov, to the rostrum. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u140	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina, 114th District. Dear colleagues! Today, there is a very difficult situation that is taking turns in the city of Severerodonetsk. Practically insubordination. Today, MPs block the work of the session and block the work from execution. The mayor of the city wrote a statement of dismissal himself, because Oleg Láska's faction and the Self-Help faction insisted that there should be two draft decrees by the deputies and immediately by the mayor of the city. Today, no one touches that chair! The committee made a decision, 13 out of 13 in favor. 47, today there are 47 signatories to the draft decree. I ask every faction to join, to support. And today, the Pure Quarter. I ask you to put order right in Lugansk, in the heart of today, an area that suffers today from the villains who rob the city with hundreds of millions of dollars! Every day, they rob people of their lives with no medicine, no food! Today, 32,000 dollars have just been issued to the military, and they stole 54 million dollars! I'm asking you today to join the non-fractional, every faction, the BPP faction, the Self-Help faction, the Oleg Láška faction and even the faction of the environment. Because it's the Cloud that's causing the mess! Release them and please release them from the abomination that is blocking Lugansk today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u141	Thank you. My colleagues, I just wanted to let you know that I've offered to cancel my break five times in the morning. Five times! If we canceled the break, we would have, at least, an extra hour to consider. This proposal was not supported. Now I'm putting 6354 in order of the day, because we don't have another one. Otherwise we won't be able to work if we don't release Billows. 30 seconds, please. 30 seconds, Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to put these two draft decisions on the table today: for the mayor and for the deputies of the City Council in the city of Severodonetsk. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please be supportive. The first is 5247, the second is 6169. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u143	Colleagues, pay attention. We are moving on to the Billous Liberation Order of the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine (No. 6354). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[17:48:14]] For-182 182 in favour. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u144	I invite the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andriy Volodymirovich, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u145	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome everyone to the coming Pascoe, to wish the delicious Pascoe to all, God's grace, that there was order at home in all the Ukrainians with the coming Easter. For your consideration, the Economic Policy Committee introduces Bill 6354. You know, the Head of the State Property Fund, Igor Olegovich Billows, wrote a statement of his own. And the committee recommends that Parliament support the ruling on the release of Igor Olegovich Billous from office. Thank you all very much and with the coming Easter.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u146	So, colleagues, please record two in favour, two in front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u147	Vote! Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u148	Ah, colleagues, I'm sorry. The committee head says we just have to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u149	Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u150	Colleagues, shall we vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u151	Yes!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u152	Colleagues, there must be. Please, briefly, the Radical Party, then the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u153	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. It is proposed that the Head of the State Property Fund, Igor Billous, be released from office without discussion. I think it's a completely unbalanced decision because the Head of the Maintenance Fund is a very important position. And before he was released, he was supposed to go out to the rostrum and report on the results of his work. Just like the Head of the National Bank of Honduras, who filed the application. In fact, we have all of our respected colleagues who are used to hearing, not hearing, not listening to them, and today have brought members to a competition commission to elect new members of the NCREKP -- they don't listen to them. Now you want to free Billows, then you want to fire Gottaareva without listening to them. A man sat on the head of the holding fund for three years, telling him what he was doing. And I think we have a strategic discussion here of whether Ukraine needs to privatise state property, strategic enterprises. Because when the government is privatized under the decentralization brand, and Roschen for starters, sell and then sell state property. Or President Roschen doesn't sell, because he says there's no price, but on the Harkowese Turbot, which gives 5,000 jobs, and he makes billions without a penny, no budget. You want to sell it for 3 bracelets so that an oligarch of Russian Grigorishin closes this factory. Back in Harkow, there used to be a Serp and Hammer factory, there's a desert today, so it's going to be with Turbot, so it's going to be with dozens of other strategic enterprises that you want to sell. So I think that this mess, this anarchy, this irresponsibility that is now in state power, has to be stopped. Each official has to report his or her work before retiring or possibly in prison.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u154	The People's Front is Medunica Oleg Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u155	There's no time with the tongue to tell.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u156	Fatherland, Rybchin Alexei is handing over Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u157	Dear colleagues, I think Mr. Billows should, on the one hand, be rewarded for not having allowed any business to be sold under such difficult conditions, but on the other hand, let's look at what else the holding fund should be doing? This is government property, and here, I think, are the most terrifying things that are related not only to the work of the State Department but also to the work of the State Department. Let's look at what state-owned enterprises are paying billions into the budget, but at the same time there are businesses that are deliberately leading these enterprises to bankruptcy. For me, the most exemplary example is the port of Ukrainian agriculture, the Berdian Seaport. For the last two years, the budget has paid €1 billion a year for 500 million. Then comes Mr. Lavrenyuk, deputy minister of Omelyan, who breaks the best contracts that state ports have and rents all the docking farms. What led to this? See the statistics on the work of ports in Ukraine. Tax evasion, commercial structures took everything in ports, led to one: we now have no budget, no fiscal concessions. I think that's the key question that's going to go to the head of the holding fund. How does the Holding Fund manage government property? And that's why the answer to that question should be crucial. We will vote in favour of Mr. Billows' release and we believe that this should be the key to the work of the successor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u158	Thank you. Igor's storm. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u159	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'll tell you right now the position of the opposition block. Today, in this case, we will help you to release the Head of the State Property Fund. But there is another question. Tell me, please, what happened when he wrote the application at his own request? Why? Did you get that? Did you get it? Were you going to the coalition? Why is it that the person you supported today is leaving office and has not read out whether the privatization program is being implemented today, or is there a budget filling? Don't forget that any personnel issue is an area of the coalition's political responsibility. I would like to remind you that just recently, no statement in the Supreme Council has started with the fact that, according to the decision of the coalition, our agreement. And there were all the political parties that are now in opposition. And they all voted in favour of these personnel assignments. And to this day, you, without understanding each other, agree in principle that the head of Nazbank should leave office at will and head of the State Property Fund. And now I have a question. If you are so willing to consider applications, please consider the application for a temporary duty of Minister of Health Suprun. She walks everywhere and says that a wonderful reform is under way. What did she do to you that you didn't want to bring her into the hall? Today, the health issue is a matter of life and death, and you today, without bringing it into the hall, are personally responsible for the collapse of the health system. And then it's gonna be a short period of time, and you're going to want to file a statement at your own request. We will. This time we'll help, but you're responsible for all the staff assignments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u160	Thank you. Guys, two more shows. A minute, please, Ostrika and a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u161	Dear colleagues, we've seen the head of the holding fund in this room three times. The first time he was appointed, the second time he was lobbying the Watch Tower Society’s Advisers Act, he was lobbying the company he had worked for himself. And the third time we have him now, we have to consider his resignation application. What does this talk about? This suggests that the State is imitating the privatization process and imitating the process of effective government ownership. It's a simple mathematical formula, it's simple, it's not going to change the sum of the additions. Whoever is put in this position now instead of Billows, there will be no normal process of effective governance of state property until this body becomes independent until the Law on State Property Administration is passed and the Fund becomes accountable to Parliament. What do we see now? The head is released, the fund's report is posted. The report, when and what fund should be given to Parliament every year, is posted on the Fund's website on April 5. For 2016 And the results of the privatisation for 2016.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u162	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u163	And the results of the privatisation for 2016: out of the 17 billion budgeted, up to 78 million! This is a full simulation process. That's why you can fire Billows. But before anyone is appointed, we need to work very well with valid legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u164	Colleagues! Last minute, Barwinenko. And let's move on to making a decision. I ask you to invite the deputies into the hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. Please turn on the microphone for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u165	Dear Mr. Head! We have the Head of the Holding Foundation present. And I still think it's necessary to give him a word. A man worked for two years. The hall assigned him. Let him at least get something out of his system. Well, you can't do that. We're firing a man. He's making a claim at his own request. No report, no responsibility to the Supreme Council. Please give my word to the head of the fund for a minute, at least for a minute, about what he's done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u166	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking you to take up your jobs, colleagues. And I'm voting on Billows Igor's release from office as Head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund (6454). And I would like to vote in favour of the committee's decision to recommend the release of Igor Billows from office at his own request. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:59:25]] For 242 142. Decision taken. Colleagues, I'm continuing this meeting for 15 minutes, and now I want to inform you of the following. A number of suggestions have come to bear the question, the first was the 5259 proposal, but before that, from the very morning, the discussions have been held, prepared and submitted to Parliament by the government, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Justice a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention of Corruption on improving the organization of the work of the National Anti-Corruption Agency (6335). And asking the government to just put it into the agenda of the day session so that the committees can look at it, that's 30 seconds, that's very short, colleagues. I'm asking you to mobilize, and I ask you now to vote only on the inclusion of the agenda so that the committees can look at it. And I, colleagues, propose to vote to include in the agenda of the day's session a bill amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on improving the organization of the National Anti-Corruption Agency 6335 inclusion in the agenda of the day's session, please vote, please support. Now. So there'll be a review now? [[18:01:04]] For a hundred and I'll just put the day in order again, colleagues. I ask you to vote only for inclusion in the agenda of the session, please vote 6335 for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote. [[18:01:35]] For 211 Guys, I'll put it back on. Colleagues, I'm once again putting 6335 in the order of the day session. Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. That's how the committee needs to look at it. [[18:02:05]] For 204 The decision is not made. Now I'm putting to the vote the sentence of Cosemyakin, Cosemyakin, has proposed that we now move to the consideration of a law that he considers to be extremely important and urgent for adoption -- this is the draft Act amending article 72 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to improve the order for the calculation of the term of prior imprisonment. You all remember, a very resonant bill, the committee worked on it, and the committee is ready to present it now. And I'm putting to the vote the proposal of the chairman of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Law Protection Activities of Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich that we now go to 5259, it's because of a few questions that we're going to consider right now. I remind you, this is a very important, resonant bill. And I'm asking you to support us now to move on to its consideration (5,259). I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote 5259. Please be supportive. Everyone knows the importance of this bill and the need for its urgent solution. Please be supportive. Vote. Please vote. [[18:03:22]] For 232 232 for. Decision taken. Me, too. Let us now consider the draft Law on Amendments to Article 72 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on improving the procedure for calculating the term of prior imprisonment. I invite you to report to the head of the Legislative Security Committee, Kozemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u167	Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, a respected colleague, is invited to consider a comparative table in the draft Law on Amendments to Article 72 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the improvement of the order in which prior imprisonment is counted. The bill received 27 amendments and proposals from national MPs, while only 27, 8 are proposed by the committee, including partial and editorial consideration, while others are rejected. The proposed drafting of the bill provides that, above all, the term of prior imprisonment is counted by the court before the sentence of imprisonment: one day of prior imprisonment in one day of deprivation of liberty. However, in the case of more than 12 months worth of detention, more than the pretrial investigation provided for by the CPC, the term of prior imprisonment will be counted as one day of prior imprisonment in two days of deprivation of liberty. Dear colleagues, we have two ways to resolve this issue today. The first is the proposed drafting of the bill. What I just said. And the second option is committee, partly taking into account the comments of the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council. And the proposal of the Ministry of Justice, the second option. And this second option is presented in Amendment 1, number 26 and number 27 of the committee. They're accounted for. I mean, if we keep these amendments, there goes option number two, which is how everyone works today, and the committee voted with these amendments to adopt the law as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u168	Here's the order. 1st Amendment. Bird, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would just like to make the 1st amendment for confirmation. In fact, this proposal was made to me by the professors of criminal law at the University of Shevchenka, who pointed out that if we now voted on this amendment, it would be totally inappropriate to comply with article 72 of the Criminal Code, which prohibits the formation of the punishment of the population as a basic penalty in the form of a fine with any other penalty. Penalties in the form of a fine should be imposed on themselves. Let's not support this amendment, because, for example, crimes like farm crimes, we're not going to be able to impose fines on these farm crimes, and we have a budget, for example, for committing a crime like tax evasion, we're not going to get the right money in the form of, in fact, paying the fine to the guilty person. So please, for confirmation of the 1 amendment, fail it, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u170	Please, Andrew Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u171	Dear colleagues, ma'am. I want to say that Mrs. Victoria is almost a majority of the law. And the Chief Legal Authority also supports this proposal. So as a compromise, I think we can agree on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u172	I mean, I'll do it again. I'll ask for confirmation, and the committee thinks we can't deny it, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u173	The committee counted, but we're going to, let's say, compromise so that there's a law to be. to change his own approach to this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u174	Got the position, didn't you? I'm voting on Amendment No. 1 of the People's Deputies of Palamarczuk. The committee asks that the hall be determined not to insist. Please vote, please support. Whoever supports the amendment of Palamarczuk, please vote. [[6:07:30.]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. So the first amendment is out of the question. Three, four, Krulko. Don't insist. Please, Captain, Olena Sotnik. Come on, really, who insists, just raise your hand. Please, Mrs. Olena. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u175	Thank you. Colleagues, we have one principle of amendment that we also want to make for confirmation, the 26th Deputy Vlasenka. That applies to retrospect application of the law. I would like to remind you that, according to the Constitution, the deterioration of conditions is impossible and unacceptable in criminal law. And this amendment is about to make things worse. That's why we think that in order for this law to be constitutional and to uphold the rights of the accused and the suspects, it's necessary not to actually support this amendment. And so the law will then be more or less balanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u176	Andrey Volodymyrovich, we had a committee discussion, we had a majority of the votes taken into account, but I agree with Mrs. Olena as a compromise, and including the Chief Legal Office recommends that we go this way as soon as there was an offer. So step on it, don't pick it up, and let's move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u177	So you understand the position of head of the committee, right? Let's put 26 amendments on confirmation. The committee does not insist that it be confirmed. Please vote 26 for confirmation. Please vote. [[18:09:10]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u178	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman of the committee, I would like to place my license number eight on the vote and explain why. The first edition we adopted of the government bill made it clear that a year in two counts only for crimes of small and medium severity. Unfortunately, after we've worked with the committee, it turns out that after a person's been in detention for more than a year, any crime for any crime that he's actually trying to condemn, he's going to be punished in two years. My job was to narrow down this number of crimes, not all crimes completely, but only small and medium severity. Sadly, though, it now turns out that all terrorists, the great criminals, will be able to sign up for this article after the year of being in the World Health Organization in one year or two. So, dear colleagues, I'm not going to put on confirmation the 7th amendment that was counted and, in order not to fail the law, I'm going to propose here to add "for crimes" to this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u179	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u180	"for crimes of small and medium gravity" and I think it will compromise the hall and be a beautiful law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u181	Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u182	First of all, Mr. Alexei, you know how much you, as a lawyer and an expert, know how much you need to do today and adopt this law once. The other one. We thought on the committee that your proposal was insufficiently justified, and it also set a selective application of the Criminal Code, a dot. So if we vote now, let's say we accept this amendment, then there's no point in adopting this law, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u183	Do you insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote 8 of the National MP Amazanova, the Committee has rejected her, Amazanov is asking her to support her. 8 Amendments, Anointed, please vote, please support. [[18:11:30]] For-126 The decision is not made. And lastly, two revisions, please, Germany and Yuri Timoshenko. I'm just asking you to be very brief. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u184	Dear colleagues, what I would like to hear is that there is a Constitution that is necessary for everyone to fulfill, and it is clear in article 58 that every law in case of change and deterioration of a person’s condition cannot be accepted. That's why making changes in this order is a threat to those people who are condemned, but they're people. And so if we're to speak, we have to come out of the fact that there was a principle of humanity, that there was injustice, that people were not to be punished, and that law had to be abolished. That's what this is about. How can we do that if the Constitution clearly states that we cannot make things worse? Did the committee discuss this or not? It's we're openly going to break the Constitution, we're openly going.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u185	Colleagues, in a minute of voting. Please, Yuri Timoshenko, name the correction. And in a minute, a vote, everyone, please step into the halls and prepare for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u186	Friends! I would like to remind them that among prisoners there is such a category as the attachés, they are generally wrongly accused of committing serious or particularly serious crimes, since most of the crimes they are accused of were committed by them in the zone and during the time of the antiterrorist operation. The same rules cannot be applied to criminality and to ATO participants. I would like to list the attachés one day of prior imprisonment for two days — deprivation of liberty.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u187	The repair number? Thank you. Colleagues, the discussion is over, let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, I'm asking you to focus, take up jobs. And I put to the vote the draft Act amending article 72 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to improve the order of prior imprisonment (number 5259) in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support 5259 in the second reading and in general with technical law. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[18:14:31]] For 209 Colleagues, 209. I'll ask you now, colleagues. He heard the question. Clarification, please. And I ask that you invite the deputies into the hall, colleagues. Don't go away, please. I'm asking you very much now, who's in the towers, to come into the hall. We're missing a few votes. Please, 30 seconds, Mr. Andrey Cosemykin. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u188	Andrew Volodymyrovich, I've already commented on this. And I said that one day of previous imprisonment in one day of depriving myself of the will after. In the case of keeping in custody for more than 12 months. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u189	The discussion is concluded, Oleg Valeriyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'm putting the vote back to the 5259 vote. I'm asking you, colleagues, to maximize your mobility, prepare for decision-making. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 5259. Please vote and support for the return, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Vote! Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, they're done. All of it. Agreed, right? Please take up jobs, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. Several votes were missing, colleagues. Please mobilize.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u190	Oleg Valeriyovich, I say once again that I affirm that murderers, rapists, and all those who have done hard, especially hard, have no right. And we've changed this law to make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u191	That's what they said, Ukraine. Please support the return to 5259. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote back to 5259. Let's vote, colleagues. Each voice has a weight. Please support me. Don't leave the hall, colleagues. Why during the vote? [[6:16:59]] For 209 Colleagues, I'll do it again, please concentrate. Yeah, time's up. All right, colleagues. Bill 5259 was rejected. Let's do it again. Let's get together. Let's focus, colleagues. Again. We put it three times all the time. Let's focus, colleagues. Everyone, please come into the hall. I ask you to show the factions how the vote was. Please turn on the factions so we can see where we have the reserve. Peter Poshenko Block – 76, People's Front – 60, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 10, Radical Party – 15, Father's Party – 12, Will of the People – 8, Rebirth Party – 8. Colleagues, let's concentrate. I'll bet again. Indeed, we can go to others again, colleagues. We can do it again. Let me put the others back together, colleagues. I'll put the return again if there's no second. Please be in the hall. I'm proposing that we go back to 5259 for the vote as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote please, fellows! Please support the 5,259 return to consideration as a whole. Please be supportive. Vote, fellows! Please include the voting system. [[18:18:25]] For 217 The decision is not taken. And here's the thing: re-reading the second reading. I beg you, colleagues, let's all go together. Let's go, colleagues, two minutes to the committee for a second read. I'm asking you to support the committee's return to read again. Please vote, please support the committee for a second reading. Please vote, please support. Please support the committee for the second time again. Colleagues, let's all go together and support who's in the hall, out of respect for the committee, for the huge work that's been done. [[18:18:59]] For 217 217, colleagues. The decision is not taken. 5259 rejected. Colleagues, I'm about to make an announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u192	[[From the Hall]] Andrew Volodymyrovich, well, it's about people's lives. As far as you can. The killers are coming out.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u193	Guys, there's more. I'll read the announcements that came. We got a statement from two factions for a break. I'll give you three words to announce Maxim Burbak. And I'll make an announcement, colleagues. I'll make an announcement because there won't be any later. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u194	Dear colleagues, I am addressing you as parliamentarians, who in the last two weeks have returned to these walls the function of parliamentary control, and it has become active, we have heard the NAZC report, we have heard the report of the NCREKP. Yes, over the past three years we have done a great deal in reforming our country, and time has been scarce, and so much has been done. And the main force itself is to acknowledge mistakes, and that's the key to doing everything you can to remedy the situation. So in Parliament's walls, there was a government initiative that we'll finally be able to bring the system into NAZK and so that everyone who fills in the electronic declaration can submit it in time so that they don't depend on the intrigues that are in this inactive body. And today, it's a shame that our coalition colleagues haven't been able to identify and support such a necessary initiative, because, I am now giving a greeting to 3,000 government officials who have failed to fill out declarations that today have no advice or statement from NAMK. What can they do to those who have failed to submit these declarations? They are now criminally responsible. So, colleagues, I'm sorry that our colleagues in the BP coalition didn't support it either. But I think at Easter, when they break up in their homes, when they meet with those officials who have done their duty conscientiously and wanted to make a declaration and were unable to do so because of the inactivity of this body, because there are people who cannot do so by the apriors. So I'm confident that our first task next week will be to include this bill in the agenda and to make decisions, not to play politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m1.u195	Thank you. And I, my colleagues, have two short announcements, one in accordance with article 60 of the Law on Rules of Procedure, reporting the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union "Plass" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Krivenk Viktor Mikolaiovich, was elected head of this association. And the next. In accordance with article 60 of the Code of Rules of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Inter-Parliamentary Union "According to the Liberation of Prisoners of War" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The head was chosen by Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich. And, colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. We had a tough day, we were able to make a number of important decisions, and tomorrow at 10 a.m. I invite everyone to the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
