ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for your registration at the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please invite the deputies to the hall. So, are the colleagues ready to register? Please come into the hall. And my colleagues, I want to report that during the lunch break, there was a working group on the issue of reform of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it was decided in the working group that today we would include in the weekly agenda a bill that was already under consideration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ratio of committees so that we could consider it on Thursday. So the working group had all the factions. I want to emphasize that all the factions that are in Parliament and the overall position of the working group were that we vote today for the inclusion in the agenda of the session, weekly, and Thursday for the consideration. I would like to remind you that next week we will have a meeting with the European MPs on parliamentary reform. And I will ask all the MPs to maximize their mobility and support the inclusion in the weekly agenda of the Ukrainian Parliament Reform Act. Now, if you'll all please sign up and sign up for the evening session. Please register. [[16:05:05]] Registered - 353 353 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And we will continue to consider the issue of rural medicine, accessibility and quality of health care in rural areas. We're done on the 18th, and we're going to continue to do the paperwork. I'd like to ask the head of the committee to take up a job. Mrs. Ola, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, we've stopped at 20. Semenha. Is he insisting? No, it doesn't. [[B in m in s a l in]] 21st is right, Sissyenne. Is he insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u3	Olu, that's what I'm gonna say. So 21st, Sisoyenka. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, I insist on my amendment, since this is true of the State’s support for the development of health care in rural areas. I want to point out once again that in order for medicine to develop in the village, it is necessary to create conditions for medical workers to be there. It is therefore necessary to review the government’s decision this year and to raise the medical tariff levels. Because raising the minimum wage resulted in a comparison between doctors and nurses and cleaners and the guards getting the same salary. So we should not allow this to happen next year, because the medical subsidy for the second and third levels of medical care remains unchanged. Therefore, there is a requirement for the government to make immediate changes to the Cabinet of Ministers' decision and to raise medical tariff charges. And I demand that my amendment be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u5	Mrs. Ola, will you comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u6	Yes. Yes. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u7	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u8	I would like to point out that what Mrs. Irina has heard is not regulated by the bill at all. And the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers has to pay off immediately the debt that goes up every day is absolutely clear. And I also demand that the Prime Minister immediately take control of himself and pay off the medical debt. And the amendment was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u9	Do they insist on voting? He insists. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 21 people's deputies, Sisoyenko. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. Please. [[16:08:35]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 25th, Rybchin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u10	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. My amendment relates to the proposed law, which provides for a departure only once a year. I don't think that's entirely true. We have a very large number of people who are sick in the village and only. And only once a year to come visit them is wrong. I suggest that such visits be made on a regular basis, and that is what my amendment is all about. And it should regulate important social relationships. And I don't understand why only once a year will this prevention review be done. So I'd like you to consider my application for regular travel admissions by specialist doctors.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u11	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote Amendment 25, People's Deputy Rybchin. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:09:45]] Z-71 I am now publicly addressing the ministers once again. Attention! I address myself publicly in the Hall, and none of the ministers, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, can come in. Alexander. So 25 revisions didn't go through. Next. 29th. Don't insist. 31st. Don't insist. 34th. Don't insist. 36th. Don't insist. 39th. Don't insist. 41st. Don't insist. 39th, Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u12	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Fellow dignitaries, article 4 of the State - to - State project, among other responsibilities, rely on the promotion of rural accessibility to effective, quality and essential medical supplies and medical supplies. In view of the use, hear, this term "necessary" can lead to ambiguous interpretation and complicate the practical application of this rule. Therefore, I propose that the minimum range and quantity of medical supplies and medical supplies to be provided by rural health facilities be approved by the Ministry of Health and not by the term “necessary”. It's just absurd and dilute. The list should be approved by the Ministry of Health. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u13	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 39, Roman Semenha. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. The committee turned her down. [[16:11:28]] For-66 The decision is not taken. 41st. Don't insist. 46th. Don't insist. Forty. What's that? 46th, Rybchin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u14	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. In general, I think it's one of the most important lines I've ever given, because not everywhere, not everywhere in the countryside, is the Internet. So we need, we need to commit or we need to be able to buy not only broadband access to the Internet, but also 3G or 4G modems that we're going to have. And this technology is going to be cheaper. So so that we don't copy the law all the time, let's also give this kind of internet connection. Also, if there is telemedicine, there should be special antivirus software. Because now we have a very big threat to cybersecurity, we have these hacker attacks that make the aggressor country. So not to foresee antivirus software that's not purchased in the aggressor countries, and not to do that, it's just to give a very large amount of personal data to our citizens. And that's why I think it's a matter of national security. So that we can count 46 revisions of 3G modems and antiviral protection and cybersecurity.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u15	Thank you. So I'm voting on Amendment 46. Whoever supports it, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[16:13:00]] For-59 The decision is not taken. 48th. Don't insist. She insists on Semenach.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u16	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the law deals with such a sensitive issue as charity contributions. To date, charitable contributions to health care facilities are in fact classified information and a cause for abuse. And my proposal is to correct this situation. I propose that a regular report be made on the arrival and direction of charitable contributions from natural and legal persons to health care facilities that provide health care in rural areas. Such information should be published on the official websites of local governments. True, transparency in this process will provide greater confidence for both health - care users and those who do good work. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u17	48th, right? So I'm putting 48 amendments to the vote. The committee has turned her down, please make up your mind. [[16:14:13]] For-67 The decision is not taken. 51st. Don't insist. 56th. Don't insist. 56th. Yeah, it's yours. Semenha. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u18	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, European experience has shown that the development of the public and private sector’s interaction in the field of health allows for a qualitative reform of the health sector in the absence of funds in the state. The amendment is designed to ensure that such mechanisms work in our country as well. We propose that the Cabinet of Ministers be responsible for their creation, particularly with regard to simplifying the process of entering into public-private partnership agreements, ensuring equal rights between the public and private sectors, ensuring a fair and well-founded distribution of risks and the responsibility of public and private partners. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u19	I'm willing to vote on Amendment 56. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:15:23]] For-61 The decision is not taken. 57th. Don't insist. 59th. Don't insist. 61st. He insists. Rybchin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u20	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. My amendment is to approve the normative pressures of health workers in rural areas, depending on their profession and level of employment. This is a world practice that provides for the determination of standards of exertion of health workers according to this principle. The United States, the United Kingdom, is developing a work schedule that takes into account their expertise and level of employment for some time in a particular area in order to avoid abuse by the management of the medical institution. I'm asking you to consider my license number 61.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u21	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote of 61. The committee turned her down. Please vote, please identify yourself. [[16:16:29]] For-67 The decision is not taken. 63rd. Shinkovic, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, my right suggests that the Central Executive Authority, the Ministry of Health, in this case, ensure and coordinate within the competence of measures to improve the skills of health workers in rural areas for the use of telecommunications technology and tools to ensure the functioning of the electronic health system. Talk about what? The idea of telemedicine is beautiful, the bill, thanks to the President of Ukraine for such an initiative, but the country's health care community needs to prepare for these technologies. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u23	Thank you. I'm voting on amendment 63. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:17:41]] For-73 The decision is not made. 67th. Don't insist. 79th. Don't insist. It's the '80s. It's the '80s. 80th, please, Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, this bill envisions spending an enormous amount of money on the state budget of Ukraine. And my amendment concerns that when decisions are made by the local authorities regarding the construction of new medical facilities are made on the acquisition of additional infrastructure that will spend public funds so that community representatives can take part directly in solving such issues, whether one or another additional medical facility needs to be built, or whether some equipment needs to be made. We have, first of all, to focus on the need for specific areas of direct view of health workers and including patients in order not only to let the authorities decide what they want to get government funding for, but first of all to create and build health facilities that are important to people living in this area. So please support my amendment to involve representatives of the public in solving the issue of spending the budget on medical facilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u25	Please be determined by Amendment 80, Mrs. Sisoyenko. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[16:19:26]] For-65 65 votes. It doesn't take up the necessary amount. Hey, tough guy. 88th. Is he insisting? Don't insist. 91st. Hey, tough guy. Don't insist. Semenha. 95th. Microphone. I'm sorry, I have sclerosis, I admit it. 94 was partially accounted for, Mr. Rybchin's amendment, he's asking for words. Please, 94th Amendment, Mr. Rybkin. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u26	Thank you very much, Vice Speaker. This readjustment refers to "orders and criteria for transport equipment." I suggest that if we have such an advanced law on telemedicine, on electronic boards, on Internet medicine, let's immediately write down that especially we will be purchasing machines equipped with electric motors, so that we don't use old technologies to save money on rural budgets because electricity is cheaper than gasoline or diesel and technology is now cheaper. So let's immediately write in the bill that the machines might be, not necessarily the whole park be electric cars, but they might be equipped with electric motors to help us develop this direction that's being developed around the world. I don't understand why the amendment was partially taken into account and didn't take into account this aspect, and I don't want to put it to a vote so that it doesn't knock down other things that involve purchasing domestic options, not foreign production, if there is one.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u27	Thank you for your clear position. There is no insistence on the vote of the national MP, Ryabchin. Next Amendment 95 to Simeonha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u28	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, according to a financial and economic justification for a bill to implement measures to make medicine more accessible in rural areas, it is planned to allocate as much as 13 billion dollars, which is a large sum of the state budget. At the same time, the state has allocated about 5 billion dollars for the next 2 years, for the development of health care in rural areas, and this is a very large investment, but the bill does not determine exactly how this sum will be distributed or how it will be controlled. Therefore, my bill introduces a procedure for parliamentary control of the implementation of state-level targeted programmes that plan to spend 13 billion dollars of taxpayers' money, a comprehensive, independent expert assessment, a final report on the final results of the implementation of state-level targeted programmes. I am convinced that taxpayers should see how these costs will be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u29	We vote in favour of amendment 95, which the committee rejected, National Deputy Semimenah, please. [[16:22:20]] Z-62 Your amendment is not supported. Now, now, I'm moving. 97th, Sisoienka, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, my amendment relates to the financing of rural health measures. I point out once again to all colleagues that the most basic tool in rural medicine is, first of all, the creation of conditions for the presence of health workers in rural areas. To do this is a priority, and the only thing is to raise the pay fund for health workers. We all have to understand that each of us, every patient comes not to the official, not to the local authority, not to the MPs, but to the medical staff. So I demand that in the form of financial measures, first of all, an increase in the pay-for-work fund for health workers be made this year, that is 3.5 billion dollars, and for the following year, an additional 4 billion dollars is added to the health-care workers' fund across Ukraine for municipal and state health institutions. Please vote for my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u31	We're voting on amendment 97, National Deputy Sisoyenko. The committee turned her down, please make up your mind. [[16:23:54]] For-65 He's not. Jacinko, 99th. Don't insist. 100th, Semenha. Semenich's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u32	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the draft law provides that funding for measures and increased accessibility and quality of rural health care is made at the expense of Ukraine’s state budget, local budgets, other sources that are not prohibited by legislation. My right suggests clarifying the types of measures to ensure the availability of medicine in rural areas, which should be financed primarily by subsidies from the state budget to local budgets. In simple words, we have to write clearly in the bill that the state does not go into the pockets of local communities again. Please support me to clarify why this project will be financed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u33	Thank you for your clarification. We are voting for the amendment of the 100th National Deputy of Semimenha. The committee didn't support her. Please identify yourself. [[16:25:03]] For-53 53 votes, not supported. 102nd, Arrow. Don't insist. Opanasenko, 105th. Don't insist. Shinkovic, 106th. 106th, Shinkovic, I haven't been able to announce it yet. Microphone, Shinkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u34	Dear colleagues! Once again, I would like to draw the attention of the Ukrainian public, who listens to direct air, the President of Ukraine is offering 5 billion dollars in rural medicine development, my friends. And now we have to stop talking about the amendments and not say that Ukrainians have to see five billion distributed. So we're here in this room, friends, national MPs, we're going to be in our own district, everyone in the area that's responsible, but it's very important now that we're not allowed to adopt this law. Accept it as a whole so that it will take effect on January 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u35	Thank you. You're not insisting on a vote, are you just saying the right position on supporting the bill? Thank you. Let's move on. Next amendment to 107th, Opanasenka. Don't insist. Colleagues, we're on our way to completion. Mantis, 109th. Don't insist. We're moving on now, colleagues. 111th, Rybchin no longer insists. Is he insisting? Rybchin, 111.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u36	Colleagues, Alexei Rybchin, the "Fatherland" faction. The amendment refers to the definition of “critical factor”. Telemedical services are provided, including when the distance is a critical factor in its delivery. What a "critical factor" is, is not clear, is not provided for in Ukrainian legislation. It is not clear that the author of the bill himself envisions this concept, and this gives the right to interpret and abuse the concept of medical care. We suggest that we define, well, at least so that the critical factor of quick and quality delivery, because it's actually going to be a license in place and it's going to be an abuse of its own authority. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u37	We're voting for the 111th amendment. The committee didn't support it. Ribs. Friends, if someone doesn't have the principle of amendment, let's move more dynamicly to look at most of the bills today. [[16:27:17]] For 48 votes. Not supported. 112th, Sissyenne. Don't insist. Thank you. What's that? 112th, Sissyenne. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, we fully support the rural medicine initiative. But what I want to add is that rural medicine is the primary link in the provision of medical care, so the committee has passed Bill 6634, which also has to be placed as a priority in the parliamentary voting room, so that we can vote on the law that applies to the primary medical care chain on the basis of family medicine. So that we can clearly define at the legislative level the mechanism of interaction between first-level and second- and third-level health care institutions, so that we can clearly determine which health facilities are primary-level institutions. And the pressure of family medicine doctors -- all of this is a complex decision that is prepared along with the Association of Family Medicine, with the Institute of Family Medicine. And this bill, 6634, should also be put into the voting room and voted together with all the bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u39	We're voting for the 112th amendment, National Deputy Sisoyenko. The committee didn't support her. [[16:28:55]] For-43 Not supported. Please, the word Mrs. Mantis, which urges that 110 amendments be made. Please, Mrs. Mantis.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to put in 110 of the bill, it's supported by the committee, but it doesn't take into account the need for international standards and international protocols to apply, actually, telemedicine. So please place it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u41	Mrs. Mantis puts 110 amendments on confirmation. It's an amendment. Don't scream, please! Mrs. Corchinska! Mrs. Corchinska, please listen to me! There is no need to scream. So, the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure -- read it tonight, in your free time -- the MP has the right, it's not my whim, to make a statement. Your amendment, this is exactly what I'm going to do, supported by the committee. This is Mrs. Corchinsky's amendment, which was supported by the committee. It's a principle. The head of your committee is putting her on the stand right now. As chairman, I have to put this on the stand. I'm going to the session room to vote for this amendment right now because the committee supported it. This is 110th. Please vote in favour of this amendment, because the committee has supported it, and the committee head is putting it on the stand for approval -- that's "high relations" on your committee. I'm asking you to vote yes. [[16:30:42.]] For-141 She's not supported. I'm asking the committee to identify what we're doing next, and we're moving on. Please. Mrs. Oksana, this is not a question for me, this is a question for the representative of the Mantis who asked for confirmation of your amendment. Let's move on. 117th, Opanasenko. Don't insist. 118th, Semenha. Don't insist. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u42	Colleagues, and please invite all the deputies to the hall. Heads of factions, Secretariat, please invite deputies to the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u43	116th Amendment overruled, Mrs. Timoshenko. You are not the author of the 116 amendment, you cannot put it because it was rejected. Your last name isn't "Timishenko." I'm sorry, of course, but as far as I can remember, you're not Timoshenko. Macola. He doesn't insist on his amendments. Macola insists. Please, Macola. National MP Macola, his amendment number one hundred.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u44	Good afternoon! The law stipulated the term until December 1, this year, well, the Cabinet of Ministers is unrealistic in these 16 days to solve all these problems of rural medicine that have gathered for 26 years. But given that the committee has taken Danchenk's amendment into account, I will not insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u45	So you don't insist on your amendments, you think that the law should be adopted in the same way as the committee suggests. Colleagues, Mr. Berezenko, Mr. Berezenko, have just made a request that, when we vote, the bill be put in place by a committee that has accepted the committee. And the last one is going to be corrected. Colleagues, please, I'm asking you to mobilize, because in just a minute, we're going to vote on the bill. And now the nation's deputy Musai is asking for correction. to confirm the amendment of 125 people's MP Macola.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u46	I'm sorry, I already announced. Then I'll come back to you. Please, 125 revisions. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very interesting amendment. It refers to providing the Cabinet of Ministers and taking all measures to ensure that roads are made throughout Ukraine to all villages. Of course, this is the ideal dream, probably of all Ukrainians and such populistic adjustments, they deserve a smile. Although, of course, I will not insist on her vote, let it be counted. But please take into account the budget committee when calculating the budget, that if this bill remains to be taken into account, you will have to allocate 150 billion just to satisfy this one bill in order to build roads in rural areas. Therefore, in general, I ask the National Deputies to support this bill as absolutely declarant, which, in contrast to previous medical reform, does not harm or destroy the people of Ukraine. So, Madam Chairman, I will not insist on voting. Madam Chairman, I will not insist on voting for this amendment. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u48	Now. Vote. I'll tell you what. Please. Mr. Musai does not insist on voting, he just wanted to speak up. Thank you for that. Colleagues, the final amendment of the nominee of today's Mr. Danchenk. Give him one minute, please. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u49	With my permission, 124, I propose to supplement the draft bill in the Final Positions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to deal with the payment of Internet services to Internet operators, telecommunications providers who can be involved in providing such services for rural health services with telemedicine. I would like to point out that 60 percent of telemedicine is made up of high - quality communication. Without a high - quality connection, it will not only work, it will be dangerous. Internet access services will be provided by owners — operators, telecommunications providers. Since there are thousands of connectivity sites and the vast majority of rural midwives who are located in areas where the Internet is not at all available and where there is no infrastructure to provide access to it, the question must be taken into account. Please support this exercise. It's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u50	Thank you. Colleagues, there is no committee position on this amendment in our table. I'm asking you to identify yourself. In principle, everything that has been said is in line with the bill. Please be supportive. And in a minute, we have a vote. This is the last amendment. [[16:37:02]] For-143 No correction supported. Dear colleagues! So we're moving on now, I'm handing the word to the honourable Mr. Speaker to announce the vote. But I would like to stress the following. And now this will be confirmed by the honourable head of the committee, Mrs. Ola the Mantis. So during the discussion of the bill, there was a discussion about 110 amendments that Mrs. Mantis had made to confirm. She didn't find confirmation. But then Mr. Macola demands that this amendment be included in the final version of the bill. And Mrs. Mantis, as chairman of the committee, is about to confirm that we're putting a bill under the transcript, a bill with 110 amendments supported by the committee. Now is the word, Mrs. Mantis. And then to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u51	Dear colleagues! The Health Committee supports the bill. And now, after the discussion, it was decided to support the bill in the committee with all the rights taken into account. If this bill works and the money allocated to it is not stolen, like others, actually, money for other projects that have been budgeted and that have been stolen, then, of course, in the following year, the inhabitants of the village will receive a real quality product. And now it's overwhelming to support this bill and then properly implement it. And not allowing those who want to win the tenders monopolyly to win those tenders. Therefore, I would like to support the bill as drafted by the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u52	So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, so that we don't come back, I ask everyone to come into the hall, to stop the discussion on the corners of the parliamentary room, and to prepare for the vote. So I'm going to make a compromise position that was discussed and agreed with the committee. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Enhancing Accessibility and Quality of Rural Health Services (No.7117), taking into account the 110, which was put to the vote. And with this right, the committee is asking us to vote in the second reading and in general. So please everyone, let's support rural medicine, let's support 7,117 with 110 revisions in second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:40:38]] For 280 Decision taken. The law is passed. Welcome to the adoption of the law. And, colleagues, stay put. I'm reminding you that at lunch, I've already informed you that a working group has been convened to propose to Parliament that we include in the weekly agenda a draft of Law 6256, this is a reform of Parliament. On the eve of our trip and meetings with the European Parliamentarians, we have to include it in the agenda to consider Thursday. All factions have confirmed their positive decision. This is a progressive norm that provides for the ratio of committees in the Supreme Council and ministries in the Cabinet of Ministers, a colleague. And I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda for Thursday, not today, Thursday. Colleagues, I ask everyone to vote and support. Colleagues, all factions, please support. The authors are Parubius, Greens, Burbak, Lyashko, Heratschenko, Sidorovich, Sobolev, Herasimov, Homutinnik, Moskalenko. Please vote. Please support the inclusion of the day-to-day session, which will take place on Thursday. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote, fellow workers! Please support the inclusion of the day-to-day session, which will take place on Thursday. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote, fellows! [[16:42:16]] For 203 203. Obviously, not all of them have made it. I'm asking you to show the factions, colleagues. Colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize. And once again, it's just getting into the agenda of the day session, and now we're not going to be looking at it. This is our obligation before our journey. And I'm asking, "Peter Prashenko's Block," please support, colleagues. "The People's Front", co-authored by Burbak. I see we haven't made it. Please be supportive. Radical Party, please support. Colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize, come into the hall and support me. Please take up your jobs. Do not hold back the issue of budget review. I'm asking you to mobilize, and I'm asking you to support me. So, colleagues, it's just not everyone's orientation. Everybody backing up? Colleagues, vote. Support me. Colleagues, pay attention! Take up jobs. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for Thursday. Colleagues, please. Arthur! Help the deputies organize! I ask you to vote for inclusion in the agenda of the day session for Thursday. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote, fellows! This is a reform of Parliament, our commitment to the MEPs, which we have already confirmed by our decree. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, fellows! [[16:44:19]] For-200 Let me show you through the factions. Even less than Peter Dustenk's Block, 74. Yeah? People's Front - 65, Opposition Block - 1, Self-Help - 2, Radical Party -15, Fatherland -11, People's Will - 15, Rebirth Party - 7. I'm counting on it to be a mistake, I'm going to put it again, I'm going to put the third time on the vote, I hope it's a misunderstanding. Member of the working group, Dmitri Lubinets. So, colleagues, I'm re-voting the proposal. I'm making an offer and I'm asking you to take up jobs, and I'm putting a proposal for a day-to-day session to be considered on Thursday. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote, colleagues, please support, put together and put to the vote, colleagues, please support. Vote, please. [[16:45:45.]] For 209 The decision is not made. We move on to the next issue of the agenda. I'm sorry, yes, I have an application for a break from two factions. Self-help and what's the second faction? And "The Fatherland." Instead of taking a break, I give the floor to Jehor Sobolev, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, I'd like to get some information. Dear colleagues, I am asking the attention of the entire Parliament and society, very important information came out from the National Anti-Corruption Agency official, when there was a break between our votes, Hannah Solomatin, who led the Department of Financial Control of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and said that she was forced to falsify the results of the electronic declarations, that for every official, including the national MPs, there were two conclusions that he was violating the law and that he was not violating the law when he submitted his declarations and she was told what the findings were. I think this information needs a very serious investigation, including by Parliament. I'm asking the members of the Anti-Corruption Committee to give the most serious attention to this, it's our job to figure out whether someone is trying to trample on the law against corruption. By the way, Mrs. Solomatina said she was summoned to the Presidential Administration and demanded that she comply with the Presidential Administration. I think that might be one of the reasons why, given the results of the electronic declarations, no top-planter has yet been called to account. You and I are interested in getting to the bottom of this story as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u54	And another statement from the Radical Party faction and the People's Front. They're ready to trade it for a performance. Who will act? Lyszko, Oleg Valeriovich Lyszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u55	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. Last night, a police officer, while in a state of drinking under the name of Nieda, made a road accident, resulting in the death of a 55-year-old cyanide. Two days ago, a drunk driver, in my native trailers in Montenegro, killed 22-year-old Bogdan Djomin and such facts as drunk drivers killing innocent Ukrainians every day, thousands and thousands. Consider the tragedy of Kharkiv, where the cheerleader killed six of our famous city of Kharkiv. I, along with my colleague Igor Mosiyczuk, registered a bill that provides for the elimination of all life’s rights when a drunk driver is caught driving. And when a drunk driver makes a DUI, he spends ten years in prison. I appeal to the Head of Parliament to bring this matter to the attention of the Supreme Council, with the initiative to increase the responsibility for being in a precarious state of driving, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs has also come forward. Today the bill was not even included in the agenda. We support all initiatives designed to radically increase the responsibility of driving drunkards, road accidents, and drunken killings. Every drunkard who rides the wheel has to understand that it will be a 10-year minimum road in prison. How many more people have to be killed to finally have Parliament consider the law and protect the rights of Ukrainians from drunken driving killers? I demand that Parliament consider the matter, adopt the law, strengthen the responsibility of every drunkard who gets on the wheel, so that he knows that he will be responsible for it, by taking away his will, by his life. Enough silence, people are killed every day because of inactivity. Enough with the idleness!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u56	The speeches are over, and we're moving on to the next issue of the agenda. It's a budget process, it's a budget bill. And in the audience of Ukrainian Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groisman, came to participate in the consideration of those bills. The first is the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (7116) and I ask for its consideration to be followed by a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. [[16:51:36]] For-164 164-yes. And I invite you to the report by Finance Minister Daniluk Alexander Alexandrovich. Alexander Daniluk, you are invited by the Head of the Supreme Council to report. Report. This is a draft law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. Please report. 7116.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u57	It's a bill. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! This bill is systematically related to the draft State Budget Act 2017, which, among other things, has been calculated on the basis of new approaches to education, health, social protection and inter-budgetary transfers, such as a reverse grant transferred from local budgets to the State budget and an additional grant from the State budget to local budgets for the implementation of public budgeted expenditure for education and health. At the direction of the Prime Minister, we worked with the City Association on their observations. We did this because we made the budget in time and we came up with the next decisions, which I'm sure are taking away all the issues. First. With respect to the reverse grant. Following consultations with the Association of the Ministry of Finance, Ukraine proposed a new mechanism for calculating the horizontal alignment of local budgets, which was supported by the Association, through budgeting by budget groups: budgeted by city area, budgeted by region, and budgeted by the unified territorial communities. The second is the benefits. After consulting associations and taking into account the transition to the monetaryization of the benefits, it is appropriate to leave the funding of the expenditure at the state level when preparing the bill for second reading. Medium-term loans are also a solution. We're going to have 8.4 billion, in fact, we're going to solve this. And there is a very mature question about internally displaced persons to include the number of internally displaced persons in the horizontal.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u58	Please, one more minute, because it's a very important bill, even after a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u59	on internally displaced persons to include the number of internally displaced persons in the horizontal alignment of local budgets, complement the Final Position of the Ukrainian Budget Code with the following: "Temporaryly before the return of the population to the control of the State authorities of Donetsk and Lugansk regions, the horizontal alignment of local budgets with the population's social policy takes into account the number of internally displaced persons accounted for by the central executive authority, which provides for the formation and implementation of public policies in the areas of labour policy, social protection of the population." Since the bill’s position is related to the draft budget for 2018 and to all issues, we have found a productive answer, please support this important bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u60	Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, first of all, don't yell at each other. We have this kind atmosphere in the hall today. Now, a word for a report to the head of the budget subcommittee, Constantine Ischeykin. Then there'll be factions from the factions -- you'll hear your concern there. And the minister of honor will be able to express his position. Thank you. Even the Prime Minister will be happy to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u61	Honorary Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies and Invitations, Budget Committee of October 18-19, discussed a bill to amend the Budget Code (7116), which contains provisions for the resolution of individual issues of income, expenditure and inter-budget transfers, on the basis of which the government's indicators to the Supreme Council, the draft Law on the State Budget for 2018 were built. In line with the proposals made by the National Committees of the Supreme Council, executive authorities, and local self - government to the State Budget Project, they also drew conclusions on the proposed changes to the Budget Code, particularly in part of the relations between the state and local budgets. Then the study and drafting of these bills on the committee took place without delay. I would like to rediscover and highlight the most pressing issues that have arisen. This is a transfer from local housing benefits to local budgets and a transfer to local budgets of the obligation to pay off debts for such benefits, as well as the lack of legislative grounds for such transfers and, most importantly, the sources of compensation to local budgets for additional expenditure. Also, to determine the amount of reverse subsidies made from an increase in the percentage of removals from local budgets to the state budget. Third. The need to take into account in the education subsidy the costs of higher education institutions in the first and second levels of accreditation in part of the acquisition of general secondary education and the allocation between local budgets of an additional grant for the implementation of public budget expenditure. With a view to finding ways to resolve issues by the committee, the findings of the draft State Budget Act 2018 provide for appropriate government mandates. Therefore, the final decision on such provisions should be taken when preparing Bill 7116 for second reading, in line with the draft budget for 2018.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u62	Colleagues, please add one minute to your respectable Mr. Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u63	It should be noted that the bill nullifies the parliamentary control of the budgetary committee in the implementation of the state budget, which was established by the State Budget Act at the end of the 1990s. Therefore, there is a need to restore individual committee powers in the budgetary process, as well as provisions for the continuation of the 2018 road development experiment. Therefore, these questions are considered appropriate to be settled in the first reading. In view of the results of the review, the committee adopted the following decision: recommending Bill 7116 to the Supreme Council on the basis of the Committee’s proposals in the letter to the Supreme Council. At the same time, Madam Chairman, before voting on this bill, please give me the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are now signing up to discuss the draft budget. Taking into account the importance of the subject under discussion, all factions and groups will be able to join the discussion. I have an invitation now to all the deputies to move away from the Prime Minister so that the Prime Minister of Ukraine will listen carefully to statements from all factions and understandings of the factions' positions, questions, remarks so that we can go to a consolidated vote. I ask my colleagues to honor the Prime Minister. And please, the word is now given to Mr. Rybchin. Ivan. Not Rybchin, but Ivan Krulka, I understand. Ivan Krulko. Mr. Krulko, Mr. Krulko. Let's move on, Krulko won't come forward. Colleagues. I can't force you. Yeah, let's go faster. Please, Mr. John, the position of Fatherland in your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u65	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs, the Fatherland faction has examined the draft budget in great detail for the following year. Where did we come from when we were making our bids as the Fatherland faction to this budget? We think that the real revenue part of the budget could be increased seriously. And this increase in the income portion of the budget could just be directed to raise socio-economic standards so that people don't survive in Ukraine, but they can get decent pensions and wages. Where did these incomes come from? For over a year now, there have been two drafts in the Supreme Council by Yulia Timoshenko and the Fatherland faction, which envision a de-offshorization. Costs of de-offshoring already next year could add more than 70 billion dollars of extra revenue to the budget. Next. The law on tariff pricing should be introduced. What will this bill give us? He'll give extra money to the budget. We think we need to legalize amber production, which can also bring at least 7 billion dollars to the budget in a year. That's why, honourable national MPs, they had to adopt these bills and thus increase the income portion of the budget. That this budget is completely wrong. It is absolutely wrong to impose additional expenses on local communities. Additional expenditure in the form of the first and third levels of accreditation of educational institutions. This is all PTU, this is a vocational education that can't be translated into the shoulders of local budgets. This will take at least 6.3 billion bracelets from local budgets next year. Next. We can't agree that housing benefits are again imposed on local budgets. This will take 7 billion dollars from local budgets next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u66	30 seconds, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u67	Moreover, I believe that we should support local self-government and give them additional powers to fill their budgets with specific costs. Now, under these conditions, this budget would be more balanced. And for the time being, we think of it as "the Fatherland," that this law needs very, very substantial work. We're ready to work on the budget. But we can't agree with that logic right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u68	Please, from Semenach's Self-Help, Roman Semenich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u69	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, Your Honor Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister! This bill can be boldly referred to as not a change to the budget code, but in fact the death of financial decentralization in the country. The Supreme Council, together with the government at the end of 14, voted perhaps one of its most important reforms -- budgetary decentralization -- by giving at least a fraction of the money back to the communities. In communities, cities, where nothing was done for decades, roads began to be repaired, kindergartens were built, streets were lit. Now, through these changes, Kabdin proposes that the budgets of communities, villages, and villages be virtually robbed by about 30 billion dollars. I'll give you some novels that the government is offering us. The first is the reduction of government subsidies, the distribution of them by central authorities and district government administrations, hand-in-hand, the increase in reverse subsidies from 50 to 80 percent. With the adoption of this bill, an additional grant for the maintenance of educational institutions will now be granted to the district budgets. This means "hand mode" of distribution and dependence of cities and OTG on district power. Vocational and technical education under the bill will be financed entirely by local and district budgets that threaten its existence in principle. The general underfunding by the state of education subsidy is 4.5 billion dollars. The health system is about 7 billion dollars. Local budgets are also subject to housing-communal benefits to the appropriate categories of citizens, as well as to debts for previous budget periods. I want to give you some of the disaster figures that you're going to need, what amount of looting is going to cost you for the cities of Ukraine. Kharkiv will be robbed for 2 billion dollars, Dnipro for about 700 million dollars, Lviv for almost half a billion dollars, Zaporozhye for billions of dollars, Mikolai for about half a billion dollars. I refer to fellow national MPs who communicate with local authorities every day. With this vote, we can't allow the actual destruction of local self-government. There will be local communities, Ukraine. Self-help is absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u70	15 seconds, yes, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u71	The self-help faction takes a firm stand against the destruction of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u72	Please, from Peter Prashenko's Block, Jaroslav Dubnevich. Mr. Dubnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u73	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! Jaroslav Dubnevich, faction of Peter Prashenko. Before the draft amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (Registration No. 7116). Please support the adoption of Bill 7116 on the basis of the proposals of the Committee on Budget Issues and the addition of the bill to this content. Paragraph 33 of section VI of the Ukrainian Budget Code should be supplemented by a new paragraph of the following: “To establish that in 2018, in order to carry out the customs experiment, monthly indicative rates of arrivals of customs payments to the general budget of the State budget for 2018 are calculated on the basis of the actual arrivals of customs payments to the general budget fund of the State budget for the first half of 2017, increased by the consumer price index in 2017 on average until the previous year, without taking into account the actual arrivals of energy duties”. I'd like to support the proposal of Peter Dustenk's Block. And before the final vote, please also read out the proposal that I received from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u74	Thank you for your time. The next speaker is the national deputy of the Radical Party. I'm sorry, the opposition block is now the People's Deputy of Doubenkov. Yes, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u75	I address, first of all, the citizens of Ukraine and the factions and groups that will vote on the bill. It is presented by the government as a continuation of budgetary decentralization. I am responsible for saying that there is no relation to budgetary decentralization of the bill. This bill is primarily aimed at increasing the financial dependence of local budgets on the state budget of Ukraine. This bill, in the context of the so-called "budget decentralization policy" (in quotes), proposes to exclude situations where, in the event of non-adoption of the relevant laws on the holding for the following years, before 1 December of the year, it presupposes the reporting officer not to distribute expenditure of an amount that is not less than in the current year's budget year. These positions will actually blackmail the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the non-admission of the National Budget Act, when the government will write out what they want and then say, "If you don't accept the budget by December 1st, then the Ukrainian people will live with nothing. I, the opposition block faction, don't see a policy of fiscal decentralization aimed at increasing reverse subsidies. How can we talk about increasing the autonomy of the local budget when in this bill, which will now be voted on by the de facto coalition and the satellite groups that will vote with them when the size of the reverse grant increases from 50 percent of the exemption from local budgets to 80 percent? How can we then say that this is a manifestation of fiscal decentralization? How can we talk about setting up a system of restraints and contradictions when the budget process actually removes a budget committee, i.e. the Supreme Council of Ukraine, i.e. the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will be in manual order, only by giving the Supreme Council the Ukrainian State Budget Act to determine the direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u76	30 seconds. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u77	Therefore, the opposition bloc's budget decentralization sees a higher level of tax revenue from the income tax of individuals, 25 percent of which are directed to the state budget under the stated decentralization, towards the stated environmental tax in place, and not to the corresponding reduction in the financial base of local budgets. I don't support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u78	Please, People's Deputy Halasyuk of the Radical Party of Laszka, and then the last one from Rebirth. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u79	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, Mr. Prime Minister! Those 3 percent of the economic growth that is budgeted, they will in no way allow Ukraine to implement a policy of full productive employment, that is, overcoming unemployment is today Job Number One. The minimum wage of 3,723 dollars in the budget is completely inadequate given the level of prices that exists in the country today. The Radical Party team insists on setting the minimum wage of 5,000 dollars, we've made specific proposals, which makes it real, and that's what we need to do right now. Ladies and gentlemen, you are announcing the transition to an industrial investment model through this budget, but it's actually a debt and a raw development model, because, on your own, to pay off the interest on government debt alone, 130 billion dollars, 130 billion dollars. And to support export through the Export Credit Agency, 200 million dollars, and to support innovation, only 50 million dollars, imagine what a huge imbalance. Or another example, 55 billion dollars in subsidies, subsidies are consumption, is the preservation of poverty and energy dependence. At the same time, for energy-efficient loans and the Energy Efficiency Fund for only 400 million dollars, this is not critical. So the Radical Party team has put in a bill so that at least 10 percent of the subsidy amount is focused on the heat of credit and the Energy Efficiency Fund, then we can actually increase the country's energy efficiency and reduce the tariffs, what we really need to do today. What's more, the budget model that we're betting on today is trying to stabilize, and it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u80	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u81	It's an attempt to stabilize, not a bold radical economic policy that the country needs today. Look, it's leading to an increase in the trade deficit, which means again looking for new IMF loans. The Radical Party faction suggests acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u82	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u83	So, colleagues, I want to tell you something important. In view of the delay in considering amendments to agricultural medicine, we are now on schedule. We have, according to the law, to adopt, in the first reading, the draft Law on Changes to the Budget Code, then to the Tax Code, and only then to move to the budget, and then to the full budget, and we have 45 minutes of time left. So I'm addressing all the national MPs, and I can't limit your right to speak, but you can speak not for three minutes, but for 30 seconds, briefly, and so I'm asking you very much, and I urge you all to limit your speeches, because otherwise we won't be able to vote on the budget. There's going to be a change to the Budget Code, and you're already getting the changes to the Tax Code. He'll be next. And then the full budget. So I urge everyone to speak briefly and in a concise manner. Now, the last speech -- and we're moving on to making a decision. No, what about the budget? Then we won't accept it if I give my word to everyone. Please, Yatzenka, very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u84	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Prime Minister! We had a serious debate in the group about whether or not to support this decision today, and we still decided to support the budget process. Because, in fact, a number of proposals from our faction, groups are included, this applies primarily to the metropolis in Kharkiv, 350 million dollars, third turn. This is true of children with cochlear implantation, deaf children. It's about the P.R.P. and a lot of other things that our faction was offering today. But we're willing to support the budget as a whole, our group, if we don't take fully into account the need for medicine. First of all, I want to turn now, so I'm just holding pictures of the children and I want the government to look into the eyes, and look to the MPs, who are yelling that there's no money for oncological children to kiss them, either abroad or Ukraine. That's why we insist on increasing the funding of the Cancer Institute, the OHMATDIT, the bone marrow center of Kiev, and the treatment abroad. Moreover, we believe that normal countries, children’s health, should take precedence and that our political power will stand up for it. Secondly, there are a few questions that, unfortunately, those who are in pain today, I'm only going to give you one example, that's to take into account in the budget, so that the roads that our faction has managed to achieve 50 percent of the redundancies in customs payments remain in this by activism. Second, it applies, for example, to the Odessa area, where two gateways: Bolgrad and. Skunda and Repida -- they have a name, and Balgrad, the water supply of the city, which is on the verge of today's environmental disaster, has to immediately count this money to 6.5 million dollars. And many other questions. We will be supportive today, but we insist that this be taken into account in the second reading as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u85	Thank you. And now one minute to the representative of the budget committee of Ischekin, and we move on to the vote. Please, one minute. And I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u86	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Please support the adoption of Bill 7116 on the basis of the proposals made by the Committee on Budget Issues and the additions of the bill to the following content: "It is estimated that in 2018, the monthly indicative figures for the receipt of customs payments to the general budget of the State budget for 2018 are calculated from the actual arrivals of customs payments to the general state budget fund for the first half of 2017, increased by the consumer price index of 2017 on average before the previous year, without taking into account the actual revenues made by energy customs." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u87	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on a draft bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code, number 7116 with a proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u88	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u89	One minute, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u90	Ten seconds, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u91	Thank you. That's an important element. Listen very carefully, I am responsibly saying that decentralization is being preserved, and this is consistent with the Ukrainian City Association, with the mayors of all Ukraine. So I ask everyone to support this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u92	I am voting on the draft budget for amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code, 7116, with proposals made by the representative of the Ishykin Budget Committee from the rostrum, based on the Committee's proposals. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:18:46]] For 251 Decision taken. Let's go to the following: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the review of certain taxes 6776 and 6776-d is requested to support the review of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please support the discussion. Please be supportive. [[17:19:23]] For the 220. I invite you to the report of the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Daniluk. No, I'm inviting the head of the Southern Committee. Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Eugene Nina Petrovna, please report the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u93	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! At our meeting of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, which took place today, we discussed bills that are the basis of the State Budget for 2018. These are two bills of government – 6776 (for indexation) and registration number 7110-1 (for increasing excise duty rates on tobacco products to European standards), as well as the project (for registration number 7110) of our colleague Krivenka (for increasing excise duty rates on tobacco products to European standards). Since the technical part of the merger of excise duties on tobacco products would not have been possible without the adoption of the amended bill, since two bills alongside the government, they did not agree with each other, in accordance with article 110 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules for your decision, a draft Law 6776-d, which is aimed at implementing the mandatory tax code for the indexation of taxes set in absolute terms, taking into account the proposals made by members of the committee, has been examined by all sectors of the economy, which have been asked by the committee that, with the constant increase in the excise duty on the inflation index, there has been a significant decline in the production of their products. The committee decided in an amended bill to take a decision to raise all rates except excise duty on ethyl alcohol and other spirits to distill, alcoholic beverages, beer and rent for the use of a radio-species resource. Everyone else. By all other payments, the excise tax rate increases by the inflation index.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u94	Thirty seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u95	The committee would like you to support the 6776-d bill with technical legal rights. Thank you for your attention. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u96	Please record: two in, two in. And very briefly, colleagues, very concise. I would like to point out that we will be looking only at the first reading. Kirichenko. I'm asking you very much. Okay. Thank you. Please, Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u97	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies! Today, it is necessary not to raise taxes, but today it is necessary to create conditions for the investor to come to the country. To do that, you have to do tax incentives, you have to reduce the tax burden on industry, you have to get into the country of investment, you have to get new production, you have to create jobs, you have to actually go to the industrial innovation model of the economy. The Radical Party faction proposes specific legislative initiatives that do this, this is a package of legislators on industrial parks that will allow competitors in Ukraine to create conditions for us to win fights for new factories in Turkey, Poland, Slovakia, and elsewhere. It's a 3-year import VAT schedule for all manufacturing equipment in the country, it's Bill 6514. It's a bill on government procurement using the formula "buy Ukrainians, pay Ukrainians", which will be considered by the committee tomorrow, so that those who use Ukrainian raw materials, work, energy, pay, win tenders, not imported products. This is a free networking model, 6671 bill, which is strategically important. Removing barriers to entry into the Ukrainian economy is vital to our industry. Finally an agrarian-cheese congregation. 3 percent of the tax on grain exports, exports of corn, raw raw materials, to add 7 billion dollars to the budget. And direct these funds to subsidies to those who hold cows. So because of tax cuts, because of tax incentives, because of the attractive conditions and guarantees for investors, we're going to invest in the country with new investments in production. And we're going to live on taxes, not on taxes and loans from the International Monetary Fund. This is the radical party's proposal, and we propose to support it in a package of budget legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u98	The Baltic Eugen is passing on to Dobrenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u99	Honourable citizens of Ukraine, honourable colleagues, are now considering a bill in the form of a purely formal bill because it is aimed at implementing the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on Annual Increases in Rates, Absolute Taxes on the Inflation Index. It seems to be a formal law enforcement, but what's the point? Look at the statistics. The state of GDP for 2013 was, let's think about it, $183 billion. The figure for 2017 is US$92-93 billion. The level of GDP distribution through the budget is between 40 and 45 percent. What does that mean? This means that the principal mass of the cash flow is distributed by the state. Can we afford a specified mechanism for the allocation of the specified funds, especially through the taxes currently under consideration by the bill? No, of course not. High taxes can allow rich countries. In order to raise the real sector and raise GDP by 2013 levels, we do not need to introduce a moratorium on annual tax increases, we need to lower the level of tax burden. We need to reduce the tax burden on the Labour Pay Fund. We need to introduce a moratorium on the application of the stated standard for which the bill is registered. So the Opposition Block faction doesn't consider it appropriate and proper fiscal methods to raise minimum wages by the barbaric law on the holding and raise and stimulate the real economy. Only by lowering the tax burden will we be able to increase the production volume. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u100	Thank you. And the closing statement is Lavrik Oleg Vasilovich, who gives the word to Tetjani Ostrikovi. There'll be a vote in a minute. Colleagues, we're completely off schedule. Those who have signed up are performing. We can't, we can't look at the budget. Please, Tetjana Ostrikova, please, as concise as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u101	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-Help faction. Dear colleagues! Self-help opposes the unjustified increase and transfer of taxes to the euro, as proposed by the government and the minister of finance. The Minister of Finance, reporting on the budget, lied about the fact that the budget did not include tax increases. From the very explanatory note to the bill, it seems that only from the transfer of excise duties to the euro did they intend to get more out of consumers' pockets about 6-7 billion dollars. Today, we have the only legal means of payment in Ukraine, and according to the Constitution, Ukraine's monetary unit is the bracelet. There is no country in Europe, in the European Union, where taxes are not set in national currency. Only our government could offer such a proposal, knowing that Ukrainians do not have the same income as citizens in EU countries, knowing that they receive salaries in their purses rather than in the euro. Moreover, according to our Association Agreement, we should gradually approach those excise taxes that operate in the European Union, 90 euros per thousand cigarettes. To that end, our government and the Ministry of Finance were to develop a schedule of progressive increases in excise duties projected for both the industry and consumers and to approve it at the Association Council. This was not done. This is the criminal inaction of this Ministry of Finance. That is why the Tax and Customs Committee today assumed this responsibility. We prescribed excise rates, a gradual increase, and predicted them in bracelets. We refused to raise the rates for mobile operators so that they would not increase the rates for mobile phones. So today this is actually a translation of the inactivity of the Ministry of Finance into Parliament so that Parliament can take over.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u102	Thank you. I'm not going to give anyone any more time to continue, we're going to make decisions. And we're moving on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to review certain taxes (No.6776-d) (worked) as a basis. Everyone please come into the hall and take part in the vote. Please vote and please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Please support me as a base, just as a base. [[17:30:54]] For 260 Decision taken. And, colleagues, let's move on to the question of the State Budget (No.7,000) on the first reading. In accordance with part 157 of the Rules, the matter is being discussed in full. But I'm going to all the reporters, and I'm going to make the shortest possible statement in the course of the discussion. And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Sergio Ivanovich Melnik. Three minutes. Please report, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u103	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich and the distinguished national deputies invited to prepare the draft State Budget Bill for 2018 to be considered in the first reading was carried out by the Committee on Budget Affairs in accordance with article 156 of the Supreme Council Rules. The Budget Committee has worked on a bill that takes into account the conclusions of the Court of Auditors and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which has resulted in this. First of all, the draft budget for 2018 is prepared to take into account government initiatives, primarily bills 6776 and 7110-1 on changes to the Tax Code, 7116 on changes to the Budget Code and 6327 on health reform. Second, there's a possible increase in some revenue projections. There are risks of individual planned income and privatisation rates. Thirdly, when processing the cost indicators of the draft budget, the state of budgeting of most of the main supervisors has been analysed, drawing attention to the cost constraints for the proper performance of their functions. Fourthly, when considering inter-budgetary relations with representatives of local self-government authorities and their associations, the greatest concern was the lack of financial resources to carry out the powers delegated by the State in connection with the proposed transfer of state budget expenditure to local budgets, which would result in the diversion of local self-government resources. The committee's report contains a general analysis of the bill, including a comparison with the budget figures this year and an assessment of compliance with the rules of the Budget Code and other legislation. In preparation for the bill, 2,000, 280 proposals from members of the National Committee were discussed in the table of proposals. It should be emphasized that, according to the requirements of part two of article 156 of the Rules, the proposals made by October 2 were neither considered nor included in such a table. It should also be noted that most of the proposals do not meet the regulatory requirements for their balance. In doing so, individual proposals seem to be only formally balanced, so the sources introduced for tax expenses are not supported by appropriate calculations. As a result of the committee’s work, a draft Supreme Council Regulation on Opinions and Proposals for Bills and a table of proposals for legislators has been prepared. The committee proposes to take fully or partly 860 proposals into account and to reject 1,429 suggestions. In particular, it is proposed to support proposals to increase the cost of diagnosis of disease treatment in the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u104	30 seconds. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u105	There is a proposal to increase the supply by individual positions, by individual programs, and to settle the difference in tariffs for heating services, plumbing. Thus, the Committee on Budget Affairs has adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft decision (700-P) on conclusions and proposals be adopted on the basis and as a whole prepared by the Committee. However, there are many who discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u106	30 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u107	It came out. on the inadequacy of the provision in the bill of a rule on the suspension of the separate provisions of article 16-1 of the Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine. Therefore, please put to the vote the decision of the committee, with the exception of paragraph 1.11 of the Budget Conclusions project. Thank you for your attention. I'd like to make a closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u108	Thank you. Minister of Finance Alexander Alexandrovich Daniluk is invited to the floor, and I very much ask you to report as briefly as possible and to make the shortest possible statement. Marchenko. I'm asking very nicely, if that's possible. And get ready, Alexander Stepanovich Jaremenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u109	Dear National Deputies! The government, together with the budget committee, was quite active in its budget conclusions, in fact, the conclusions provided for 2,000, 280 amendments, all very actively discussed. We believe that we have come out for a constructive dialogue, so we ask that we support the conclusions in this paper so that we can be able to work actively from the graph and keep going through the budget process. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u110	Thank you. Colleagues, according to the Rules, we have to give a statement to the temporarily acting head of the Accounting Chamber, Alexander Stepanovich Jaremenko. Mr. Jaremenko, please, three minutes, as exact as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u111	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, members of the government, are invited! In accordance with current legislation, the Court of Auditors conducted an analysis and analysis of the draft State Budget Act 2018 and approved the relevant conclusions that it has sent to you, honourable national deputies. Taking into account the time limit, I will stop at just some of the problems of the bill that are worth paying special attention to. First. The analysis showed that the State Budget project for 2018 was developed on the basis of fairly optimistic macroeconomic indicators that put risks to its implementation. Consider for yourself, in the current year, the reduction in lending of the economy, the significant decline in the volume of foreign investment, the stagnation in industry and agriculture, the main sectors of the real economy sector, and this is under the forecast by international financial organizations for the following year of the cooling of the economy of the countries of Europe and Asia, the main trading partners of Ukraine. In view of the above, it can be concluded that the revenue of the state budget in the following year will be increased mainly by imports, price increases and devaluations of bracelets. The other one. Government debt remains a key issue. The government plans to take new loans, 22 percent more than in the current year to pay off debts and cover budget deficits. The government’s borrowing next year is expected to receive a fifth of the government’s financial resources. And as a result, the state and state-guaranteed debt by the end of 2018 will increase to 2.7 trillion dollars, which is 64,000 dollars per Ukrainian, which is 1.5 times more than the end of 2016, and that's not the limit. The draft budget provides, as in the current year, for the government to be granted the right to exceed the national debt limit for the purpose of recapitalising banks and supporting the Fund to guarantee the investments of natural persons. The transfer of payments for a later period alone will not solve this problem. The government needs to adopt an immediate strategy for government debt management, which has not been in place since 2014. And to conclude: with regard to reverse subsidies and the definition of community benefits and housing services, these issues have led not only to a lively debate on the committee, but also to the fact that the bill requires not only personal but also some conceptual elaboration. Ladies and gentlemen, the House of Auditors is ready to continue working with all the participants.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u112	Thank you, thank you for the report, thank you for your position. I'm asking you to sign up for the faction for the talk. Please record the factions. The word will be given only to those who record and sign up for participation in the discussion. And I'm warning you, I'm going to continue the evening session for 15 minutes, but I'm asking everyone to be as concise as possible. Please, Fatherland, Ivchenko Vadim, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u113	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, what is state policy? State policy should motivate small and medium - size businesses, provide incentives for them to develop and come out of the shadows. For two years now, Fatherland has been proposing a bill to include almost 200,000 peasants in the organised agricultural market, a million families. Give them tax incentives, give them legalized access to the agrarian market. So, where's the state policy? You and I are decentralizing, and what happens to decentralization? Today, housing benefits from this budget are being re-translated to local budgets. Today, the differences in tariffs are again translated into budgets. Today, we are transferring debt to budgets again. So why do we need decentralization? In order for communities to develop, or for them to directly perform government functions? What about medical subsidies? Colleagues, minus 4.5 billion. That's how you talked about raising wages! Minus 4.5 billion compared to last year! And you're talking about higher wages, and this directly shows what's going to happen. What about educational reform? Didn't we talk about this with you? Colleagues, you and I have made 9,600, three minimum wage. Where in the budget is 9,600 for education? We all voted! Let's not fool ourselves, colleagues. What's proposed in the budget today is not a systematic development that they want to throw on the Supreme Council. And I'm not talking about the agrarian sector anymore, I'm not talking about who gets the support today. Did those in need receive support this year? How much did we pay off the VAT? Billions. And food prices are rising. Colleagues, you know, I'd like you to be honest with people and make this a state policy. Let's work on the proposals made by Fatherland. Those proposals we make across all sectors of the economy, we're willing to protect. And finally. Didn't you and I make the election and spend the money on it? 69 united communities How much is budgeted? 22 are those that passed in April. 201 a united community, just held elections, where 30 percent of the Party of the Fatherland has won. Now what's going on? It is not clear whether there will be a direct budgetary relationship. What about December? So why should we declare decentralization if we don't have direct budgetary relations in the budget? Farce and deception. Let's work, not pretend that we're taking any changes for the country and the country is getting better than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u114	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm warning you right now, we're not going to add any more time, because we're running out of time. And please, Mr. Semenach of Self-Help is now giving Ostrika a word. Mrs. Tetjano.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u115	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-Help faction. First of all, self-help against increasing tax burden on the economy, because because of the increase in the minimum wage, entrepreneurs will pay more than one tax and will pay more than one social contribution. Instead, the budget lacks sufficient incentives for economic development. This would be the cancellation of the income tax and the imposition of the tax on the resulting capital. Its essence is very simple: As long as the money made is turned around in business and spent on its needs, it is not taxed. This will allow our entrepreneurs to feel relief and give the state competitive advantages compared to the neighbouring countries and the investment plan of the state for years to come. Let's see, colleagues, where the government offers us to spend. The cost of money to the people. First of all, to finance law enforcement agencies and ministries. What's interesting is that the more taxes are collected from entrepreneurs, the higher the cost of maintaining the muscle that comes to these same entrepreneurs with unwarranted checks, searches, arrests, and pressure on their business, which keeps them going. Self-help against increasing spending on law enforcement compared to 2017, because everyone sees that all people see that they didn't work better. We have a rising crime rate, and crime detection has not improved. In order to stop the pressure on business, it is necessary to finally eliminate the tax police, remove from the BSI, prosecutors and police any authority to investigate the so-called economy, by creating one independent body, the financial police, which will investigate crimes against the State's public finances and will actually punish those who are currently looting state funds, abuse tax fraud and customs payments. The bill has been in Parliament for two years and is not being considered. We have supported the financing of the Ukrainian military and a sufficient budget for the defence, but we have been talking for a year about the need to exercise civilian control over the spending of these funds so that every taxpayer knows that his funds go directly to the army, not to keep the corrupts. Subsidies. We offer subsidies to monetaryize and give people money to decide for themselves whether to pay them with this money utilities or for the same money to cut consumption through warming. You have to give people a tool to reduce heat consumption. Instead, the government does not give people living money. Compare: The government spends more than 55 billion dollars on subsidies and only 400 million dollars on energy efficiency measures. Our proposal to allocate an additional one billion dollars for thermal loans for warming has not found its support, because subsidies are another black hole in the budget, where abuse can be concealed. Therefore, Self-Help cannot support this cumbersome paper with corruption risks and increased funding for law enforcement. We think he needs a lot of work. Not to mention what is happening at the expense of local communities, the government is robbing cities and villages by increasing their reverse subsidies and translating the Finns.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u116	Thank you. Please, from the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u117	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, a respected government, according to the draft budget you submitted, Ukraine's government debt in 2018 will be almost 85 per cent of GDP. The International Monetary Fund methodology is critical at 60 percent. The government debt service spending next year you predicted 130 billion dollars, that's 4 percent of GDP, and that's more than you're offering to spend on education, medicine, culture. How are you going to pay for these loans? New loans. The Radical Party team is proposing an action plan that will enable the economy to develop, create jobs for Ukrainians, support a national producer. Not by raising taxes, as you have just voted and you're going to do in the future, but by detening, once by releasing economic activity, two by radical change in monetary policy, available cheap loans for a national producer, tax exemption, modernization of core funds, support in external markets, the law, buy Ukrainian to support a national producer in the internal market. This is what you need to do not only to pay back debts but to earn and, above all, to raise wages. You're offering a minimum wage of 3 000 723 bracelets in the new year, but the actual subsistence minimum according to the Ministry of Social Policy is 3 000 831 bracelets in September of this year. Therefore, the Radical Party team offers a minimum wage from the new year of 5,000 dollars a month. This will enable not only to raise wages, averages in Ukraine, but also to raise pensions. What's the key: the bigger a person has a job, the bigger the pension has to be for the people who worked. Self-help colleagues have already said Ostrkova's friend, 55 billion dollars for grants, and only 400 million dollars for energy efficiency. The Radical Party team has registered a bill, 10 percent of the amount of subsidies — for energy-generating, for energy efficiency. Large-scale energy-generation in the country, it'll make it possible to cut energy consumption, double the cost of tariffs. This is what needs to be done, not just to eat, eat, and eat. You don't think you should just accept the budget. The new economic policy, the new jobs for Ukrainians, the new support for the national producer, is what needs to go together in the budget. The economic package offered by the Radical Party team. And we, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u118	Thank you. Please, from Boku Petra Prashenko, National Deputy Jaroslav Dubnevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u119	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! Please support the adoption of the draft Decree 7000-P, which complements the first item of the Supreme Council's budget conclusions with a new sub-item: "The final position of the Bill 7000 to complement the new paragraph of this content: "To establish that, in 2018, in order to carry out the customs experiment, monthly indicative rates of receipts of customs payments to the general budget of the State budget for 2018 are calculated on the basis of actual receipts of customs payments to the general public budget fund for the first half of the 17th year, increased by the consumer price index of the 17th year on average until the previous year, without taking into account the actual arrivals of energy customs." Please be supportive. And I ask that the speaker from the committee, Sergey Ivanovich, read it again under the audio recording in his final word before the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u120	Thank you. Please, from the Opposition Block, the head of the Yuri Boyko faction. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u121	Madam Chairman, the Honourable Prime Minister of Ukraine, the National Deputies! Our faction opposes the bill proposed by the government. Because we find it unfair. In conditions where 60 percent of the country's population is outside the poverty line, we see in the draft budget a sharp increase in spending, in spending on power structures. We see that there is an increase in funding for central executives, such as the Cabinet of Ministers, the Presidential Administration, the Supreme Council and the power structures, the Prosecutor's Office, the Security Service, the police, the border guards, all except for the social needs of the population of the country. An increase of 4 percent in funding for the social needs of Ukrainian citizens, taking into account even the official level of inflation of 7 percent, which is set up by the government, means a practical reduction in the funding of all social programs that are important to people. Our faction will stand for its budget option, in which we have proposed to the budget committee, and we will insist on reducing municipal tariffs twice and thus saving 28 billion subsidies. We're going to insist on introducing real extra revenue from the real inflation budget, which is going to be 14 percent this year, and reducing the financing of the power structures. We think it'll be fair for people. And this is going to be a budget for people, not for officials, what is being proposed today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u122	Thank you. From "The Rebirth Party" by Anton Yatzenko. And I'm asking you as concisely as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u123	Dear Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished national MPs! We are ready to support the first reading, but we have quite specific suggestions. The first proposal is to increase, continue for the next year the roadside customs experiment and 50 percent of the overturning of customs payments to county road funds. This will enable you to build quality roads and this year, when our power was adjusted in December 2016, you saw all the effects when you started building these roads a little bit. The other one. Health - care issues. We ask you to increase the subsidy by a total volume and upgrade the material and technical base of the Amos Institute by 200 million dollars. We ask you to increase to 700 million dollars for treatment abroad. We ask for an increase of 100 million dollars in bone marrow transplantation and an increase of one and a half billion dollars in child oncology treatment. So once again, I want to say that this is very important. And so for today, really, someone says that there is no money for health care, I want to raise my hand again now so that everyone can see the government and the MPs and everyone who needs to be treated. It should not be when people in a European country raise money for the treatment of a child. So I am asking Minfin, Kabmin, all of us to support and increase the treatment of children for health care. Thank you for your attention. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u124	Thank you for understanding. And from the People's Front to the word, the leader of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will vote in favour of the bill because we think it's a development budget. We're going to vote in favour because all our proposals in this budget are included and I thank the government. We will vote in favour because this budget is a continuation of the reforms and changes that have not been made in this country for 23 years, which were initiated by Prime Minister Arsenius Yatsenyuk's government, and which continues by the coalition government of Vladimir Groysman. We're going to vote in favour because 5 percent of the gross domestic product is going to be aimed at enhancing security and national security, which is 164 billion dollars. We're going to vote yes, because we're going to continue financing energy savings and energy savings. We're going to vote in favour because this budget supports all the reforms that we've adopted this fall. We will vote in favour because this budget is supported by the Program for the Construction and Capital Repair of All Roads in Ukraine. We're going to vote in favour because wages are rising for the medics, for the military and for our law enforcement. We're also going to vote in favour because there's been an increase in the financing of infrastructure projects for newly created voluntary communities. Dear colleagues, I urge you to vote in favour. At our convention, the People’s Front Assembly, we reported for three years of our work. But it's not the last years, we'll keep going. And that's why we're still going to vote in favour, because we're the only politically responsible faction in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u126	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm stressing again, I'm going to continue for 15 minutes. Now I'm giving five minutes to give a speech from the National MPs per minute. And I'm asking you to record: 5 minutes from the National MPs per minute. Please hold the recording. Logwinsky, please. Turn the microphone on in the stands. Microphone's on. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u127	Good day, national MPs. We support this bill, I will personally vote in favour, only I very much ask that the government take into account the issues related to the temporary occupation of our territory. During the war, while our citizens are in occupied territories, banning Majlis, I ask you very much to consider the support of our citizens. It can’t be that today we are paying lawyers for the protection of political prisoners that we are raising funds at some show to pass these prisoners on to their children. So I'm asking you to back up the questions and give the government a transcript of the issue of strategic protection of the occupation and of those in the occupied area of Crimean Tatar self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u128	Thank you. Royal Natalia. He gave her the word Nechayev. From the rostrum, right? Please, but one minute. And unfortunately, I can't go on, I'm warning everyone who's speaking, I can't go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u129	Dear colleagues, today is up to you what 2018 will be like for the whole country. This is going to be the way to peace and social development, or this is the way to continue economic decline and poverty. Of course, the Opposition Block insists that basic, basic, social indicators be reviewed, and this is primarily a cost-effective minimum. We insist that the subsistence minimum is 3,000, 200 dollars, depending on what the social benefits will be. We insist that the minimum pension next year be 3,000 500 dollars. You've adopted a pension reform, you've cheated nearly half the country's pensioners, and today this government is offering a pension of 1,000 373 dollars. This is unacceptable to a country that today needs social peace. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u130	I'm sorry, I warned you I couldn't go on. Mrs. Natalia, 10 seconds finish, 10 seconds, I won't go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u131	We insist that the subsistence wage, the minimum wage, is 5,000 dollars, and we're saying that there's money for that. The Opposition Block transferred its alternative project to the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u132	Thank you very much. Illenko Andriy Yuriovich, please turn on the microphone and pass it on to Yuri Lewchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u133	Please pass the word to Levchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u134	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. First of all, I would like to address the presiding Mr. Andriy Parubia, Mrs. Irina Heratchenko, who will preside now, I don't know, for the next few minutes, I ask you not to violate article 157 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to fully conduct the review procedure of the Ukrainian State Budget in the first reading, according to the Rules. You've already broken up by not asking questions, now, I hope you won't violate because you won't make any adjustments. We've proposed 72 amendments, MPs from Freedom, to try, in fact, to at least fix the disgraceful situation that was presented in the first project, when a police state is being rebuilt, a state of executive power is being built, and all the socio-economic projects that should at least be a little balanced, although a little bit of raising the standard of living of most Ukrainians, are totally getting ridiculous increases. We therefore demand that these amendments be considered fully in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u135	Thank you. Shepherd Taras Timothyovich gives the floor to Mrs. Irina Sisoyenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u136	Dear colleagues, how can you support this budget if the expenditure on the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office at the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence is higher than the expenditure on the Ministry of Defence. Who do we plan to fight next year? First. The other one. Again, the second year in a row, emergency medical care is not worth a penny to save the lives of citizens of the state. All over Ukraine, there's already an antiquarian car running around, and there's no money in the areas of buying ambulances, and it's the emergency medical aid that's supposed to be the basis for saving people's lives, and reducing deaths all over Ukraine. Third. It's a pay-as-you-go fund for health workers. Once again, the medical subsidy remains at the same level and in the following year, there will be a problem across Ukraine that doctors will not receive the funds they deserve under existing legislation, 4 billion of the state budget should be added to the Labour Fund for Medical Workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u137	Thank you. One word for Krivenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u138	Victor Krivenko, People's Movement of Ukraine. Mr. Prime Minister, we support this bill in the first reading, first of all, because it includes 5 million bracelets per layer, as in this year, and it is a great success, and a result. Because it provides 15 million dollars, a government commission to support the Ukrainian song. We've all voted the Ukrainian Song of Radio Act, we've been very successful, but we need to support Red Route, Black Sea Games and other festivals, other forms of support. Next: there is a government commission, I ask you very much, Vladimir Borisovich, 7.2 million there is a commission to support the reconstruction of the architecture monument in the very center of Lviv, the garrison temple of Chaplain Stephen Sous. The request to find a mechanism to finance its restoration is being destroyed by a unique monument to architecture. Next: I would like to ask you to make specific decisions on the construction of housing for temporarily displaced persons, affordable housing, and for our wartime military. And last but not least, I'd like to ask you to be more active in developing the Marshall Plan to complement it with concrete projects and support tools. You promised to support industrial parks, you promised to support the Export Credit Agency, but unfortunately, only 200 million dollars were spent on it. Against the backdrop. It's a coalition agreement under which everyone signed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u139	Thank you. And a closing statement. Next Frolov Mikola. And we're closing the discussion. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and please take up jobs, and in two or three minutes we'll move on to the decision-making process. Mr. Froll's giving the floor to Alexander Trelyakow, please. Thirdyak, turn on the microphone and ask everyone to enter the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u140	The Committee urges the first item of the Supreme Council's budgetary conclusions to supplement at home with paragraphs according to which the draft State Budget Act 2018 should provide for: a first-ever increase of 25 million dollars of expenditure under the budget programme 2511120 to provide housing for internally displaced persons who have participated directly in the anti-terrorist operation. This gives the status of a war invalid or a member of a war effort. These people just don't have anywhere to live. Second, to provide a budget programme of 200 million dollars to provide housing for war invalids. In this regard, delete sub-paragraphs 2, 6, 21 from the budget conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u141	Thank you. They finished their speeches by the National Deputies. Now, colleagues, a brief lineup of the National Deputy Tetjan Ostrikov. Then Irina Heratchenko, a minute. And then the committee head's closing statement. Please, but very briefly, Mrs. Auntie. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u142	I want to address the leader of the Radical Party now. Oleg Valeriyovich, comrades and comrades ended in 1917, and in Ukraine women are addressed "ma'am". And I'm Mrs. Ostrikova, not my friend, Ostrikova. And essentially, I want to say the following. Yes, indeed, to the conclusions of the Budget Committee, the transfer to the points of the aid was removed, but there was an increase in the reverse grant, but the underfunding of the medical and educational subsidy remained, the transfer to the places of funding of 7 billion housing-communal debt in the past periods. This is all in line with the table of amendments today, and other national deputies are not given in. It's a reverse grant. How can funds, local taxes collected for the needs of a particular community be removed to the central budget to be allocated to law enforcement? This is nothing more than a robbery on the part of the locals.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u143	Irina Heratschenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u144	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank the entire session hall for what it can do to help families of Ukrainian hostages. But it ended when only volunteers and individual politicians were to wear it. And that's why there's a coherent, consolidated position of the hall, and I'm asking the transcript to have a special article for the second reading in the 2018 budget: for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, legal aid to the Kremlin's political prisoners' families, for lawyers and families to travel, and likewise for Mintot's legal aid to families illegally held in occupied areas, and for the present, 157, unfortunately. And we pay the families of the military because of our law, but civilians, such as historian Kozlowski, such as the family of journalist Asiev, don't get a penny from the state or legal aid for lawyers. It's our job. If we can't get it out at this point, it's just to support lawyers and families. We also demand that the Crimean Tatars, who speak to our consuls, do not need anything, we hold on, just help our families to put it in the budget. Thank you. This is the position of the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u145	Thank you. The closing word is Sergey Ivanovich Melnik. Please, one minute. Then the Prime Minister, and we move on to the vote. Everyone, please come into the hall and take your seats. Very briefly, please, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u146	Dear colleagues, considering the discussion, please put such an offer to the vote. Take as a basis and as a whole the draft Decree (700-P) on conclusions and proposals for a bill, excluding from the budget conclusions of paragraph 1.11 on the suspension of paragraph 2 of article 16-1 of the Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine for 2018. And also taking into account the proposals of the Petra Prashenka Block, which Jaroslav Dubnevitch made for the calculation of the indicative figures for the customs experiment, namely, the final position of the bill to complete with a new paragraph of this content: "To establish that, in 2018, in order to carry out the customs experiment, monthly indicative rates of the arrival of customs payments to the general fund of the State Budget for 2018 are calculated on the basis of the actual arrivals of customs payments to the general fund."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u147	Thirty seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u148	".. the year, increased by consumer price index in 2017, on average to the previous year, without taking into account actual revenues made by energy customs." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u149	Thank you. And please, briefly, Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groisman. And I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. Briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u150	Thank you, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to stress that this budget is a budget for economic development. The interests of decentralization are fully taken into account. I want to stress that separately. And thank every national MP who supports these decisions, with whom we work together. There were many wise thoughts in this room. And we'll have time for each of us to work on the proposal and take it into account. Believe me, we are completely open to quality cooperation. And most importantly, we think that the development of the national economy is priority number one. So, dear fellows, this is our country's budget. And I thank each of you for your principled position and ability to make responsible decisions. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u151	Thank you. Dear fellow members of the national parliament, the discussion in the first reading of the Ukrainian State Budget Act has been completed. Let's move on to making a decision. And I want to stress, these are our proposals from deputies to government. And we're going to have two votes. The first is on the basis and the second is on the whole, although in general, it is the first reading together. This is our decision to turn to the government. And in accordance with article 157 of the Rules, I am voting on the draft resolution No. 7000-P prepared by the Committee on Budget Issues on conclusions and proposals for the draft Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for the 18th Year for adoption as a basis. This is the first vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. This first vote will be the second. I would like to vote on what kind of amendments. I'll put it all together with the papers, colleagues. Now for the basis. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. I'm editing the name when we vote in general. [[18:13:11]] For 265 Decision taken. And now, in accordance with article 157 of the Supreme Council Rules, I am voting on the draft Resolution No. 7000-P on conclusions and proposals for the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2018, as amended by the transcript, the head of the committee speaking during the presentation of the budget, Sergey Ivanovic Melnik, taking into account the right of Tretlyakow, who was bugged, Dubnevich, who was bugged and Irina Gerashchenko, who was bugged. Considering all these changes, I'm putting in draft regulation 7,000-P as a whole, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. I'd like you to support me as a whole. [[18:14:12]] For 260 Decision taken. Notice, 18:14 now. According to article 157 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules of Procedure, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has approved the conclusions and proposals for the draft Law on Ukraine's State Budget for 2018 and has acquired the status of the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, one minute, Prime Minister Groisman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u152	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! You know, those who make decisions can follow, not those who constantly criticize. You and I make responsible decisions that allow you to finance the country, develop the national economy, and increase social standards. All of this, including thanks to your suggestions, your support, and your leadership. So I want to thank you very much for your full support. And let's move on to the full budget of the country! Thank you all very much and we will continue to work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m1.u153	Thank you! Dear colleagues, 18:15, and I'm forced to close the meeting at night. Although the potential in the hall would still allow us to adopt many important laws for the country. But unfortunately, I can't continue the meeting. It was a hard day, but it was very productive. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the conference room to continue our work. Thank you. Good-bye.
