ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues, please come into the hall and work. Colleagues, while the deputies enter the hall, I will explain to you the logic of the work offered after lunch. I ask you a lot of attention, for then they question me ten times. I'll have everyone's attention in the hall! So I would like to stress to you that we need to adopt another bill that needs to clear the way for our drafts of the law on inviolability. This is the draft Law amending the Constitution of Ukraine, the one that was introduced earlier, and now, in order to clear the legal path, it has to be called off. And that's why the Committee on Legal Policy is preparing a draft order to withdraw the bill to amend the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u2	The committee head will explain this to you. I'll read you the committee's decision. The old bill, which was partially implemented, is proposed by the committee to be removed from the agenda of the session. After we consider this proposal from the committee, we are moving to draft laws on the election of Ukrainian national deputies. Attention, colleagues! We have three electoral bills: Bill 1068, Reporter Miroshnichenko Yuri; 1068-1, Reporter Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna and 1068-2, Reporter Chumak Viktor Vasilovich. I'm going to insist, I think the Hall will support me so that we can look at all the bills in full procedure. This must be a serious, thorough conversation. And, colleagues, I'm going to go to the hall and we're going to choose one of them, on which we're going to continue our next job. This may be a decision, based on which it may be a decision, for a committee to work on, but we have to choose one out of three. We've had five working groups or seven working groups, and we've considered all the drafts in the working groups. Now is the time for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine which one should be the basis for further work. These are the two questions that are proposed for consideration, and I hope and believe that we will be able to go through them responsibly, effectively and effectively before lunch. So I would like everyone to prepare to register for the evening session. And I'd like you to sign up. [[16:04:16]] There are 346 national deputies registered. Colleagues, we're moving on to the draft law, the decrees of the 1776 committee, but I'll ask everyone to vote in favour of its short-term review. We need 150 votes. And, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to understand, we just have to call it off, so keep 150 votes short. If we go full, we won't have time for electoral reform. I very much ask everyone to respond with understanding to my proposal and to support it by voting. Please enter the workplace and prepare for the vote. I'll wait 30 seconds. Ready to vote? I see the deputies are already in the hall. Please mobilize, get as close to your cards as possible, and I'm voting on the proposal to consider draft Law 1776, and consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support, colleagues. We vote, we all vote, colleagues. We vote, a reduced procedure, so that we can see the electoral reform. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:07:11]] Z-71 We're going to vote now. Not everyone in the room understood what I was talking about. I'll explain again, colleagues, everyone. Now. You're not listening to me. Now I'm putting to the vote the proposal to consider a reduced procedure for a ruling proposed by the committee to clear the way for the consideration of the issue of integrity. We have to look at it in half an hour, and then we have an hour and a half for electoral reform. Arthur, you weren't getting your bearings. You're not getting your bearings, please. They're going to rethink their position. They'll think about it. Yeah, yeah. Please come into the hall. I ask you to vote again. This decree is necessary for one thing: To clear the way for the laws that we voted for lunch. The committee head will explain everything. Knyazevich, explain everything from the rostrum. I know. All right. [[Noise Nodes]] My colleagues, I'm sorry, there was a discussion in the hall. The transmission is on, the microphones are on, we're on the street. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Now I've got a statement from two factions of the Peter Dusty Block and the People's Front. I'll give the Rules three minutes to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u3	Alexei Hotcharenko, Peter Dustenk's Block. Dear colleagues, you know, there's a limit to everything. It's just been posted in the network of videos where the People's Deputy of Self-Help, Semin Semenchenko, came out to the people and told them there on the street that the law of Lehchenka is not Lehchenka, but 158 MPs, including me and many of you, that he wasn't even put to the vote in the Council, that the MPs lied, were not put to the vote. Here's a video, any person can watch it. Look, is there a limit? I understand that Semenchenko is there, not Semenchenko, but Grishin, I understand where and what, well, there's a limit to how can you take and lie to people? How can you lie and take it? Respectable citizens! Dear citizens of Ukraine! You're all witnesses of how the work of the Supreme Council is deliberately broken down, how they lie in the morning, how they use "political octoberfest" to disrupt the work of the legislative body. Well, that's got to stop. The Supreme Council has just passed 328 votes for the bill of authorship of 158 people's deputies and 336 for the President's bill on the elimination of parliamentary immunity. I want you to hear that these politicians don't lie to you, as you might call a man a politician, they're just liars whose goal is to destabilize the situation in the country. Listen and understand, and draw your own conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u4	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's go to the vote. I'm once again asking attention and the heads of factions to be oriented, and I'm now proposing to consider a reduced procedure of Decree 1776, and this needs to be supported, and this needs to be supported, colleagues, 150 votes. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please support, vote. [[16:11:43]] For-140. We didn't make it. I see they didn't make it. Please take your jobs, we have a job starting at 4:00, not 4:10. Please enter the hall and take your seats, colleagues, each voice has a weight, please take your seats, please prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, it's a responsible vote to get us to electoral reform as soon as possible. I'm asking you to support draft Law 1776, consideration of a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Carefully, everyone votes. Vote, fellows! Please stand by, we vote! [[16:12:41]] For-146 I see colleagues, I'll put it again, third time, but this will be the last time. This will be the last time. Colleagues, I ask you to show by factions, I ask you all to focus and once again, it's important to vote for everyone. I'm re-voting, suggesting that draft Law 1776 be reviewed in a simplified manner. Please vote carefully and responsibly. I'm asking you to back me up. We'll wait, we'll wait. And please vote, vote, colleagues, vote, vote carefully, vote! Hold on, we're voting. [[16:14:02]] For a hundred and 156-yes. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Prince Ruslan Petrovich, to report. Mr. Knazevitch, please. And explain in detail why we should vote today to understand the national MPs?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u5	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich, I'll try. I don't know if they'll understand, but I'll try to explain. I'm just going to remind you of the story. On January 16, 2015, the President of Ukraine, using his constitutional right as the subject of the legislative initiative on amendments to the Constitution, sent to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on registration number, which was registered in 1776 of the 16th, respectively, in January 2015. Now I think there's no point in retelling the whole content of the bill it's very large by the volume of anyone who wants it, either open it up on the site, or distribute the material to look at the contents of the bill and remember it in your own memory. Then Parliament on the same day. and met, accordingly, the committee and there was a decision by the Conciliation Board and a mandate by the Head of the Supreme Council to consider it as an urgent matter at the sessions of the Supreme Council. And accordingly, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice recommended that the bill be included before. at that time to the agenda of the day session and to send to the Constitutional Court a finding of conformity with article 157, 158 of the Constitution. After a review of the bill, the Constitutional Court returned it to Parliament and determined that its individual positions were in conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, made a number of warnings. And accordingly, you know that the Ukrainian Law on Rules clearly states that if there are any warnings by the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Council cannot continue to consider this bill, but can exercise its right and delete those rules that conflict with the Constitution in order to send them back after their removal.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u6	Please add one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u7	Accordingly, such proposals were prepared by the committee, and a monthly deadline was set for the submission of proposals. But the people's deputies didn't take advantage of this opportunity, and we have a situation in which this bill is simply left motionless. Moreover, in 2015 the President introduced another bill amending the Constitution in part of the judiciary, where part of the rules that were in this bill were reproduced in a different edition, but they apply to the same rules of the Constitution and regulate the same relations. That is why the matter has already been resolved. Thus, we need, given that it has lost its relevance, just to make a technical decision and withdraw it from consideration, because the parliamentary committee cannot do so, as this bill is included in the agenda of the day session.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u8	Colleagues, did you have a reasonable explanation? Very good! [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, come on, colleagues. I don't see 226 yet, I'll tell you honestly. I'm asking you to record a discussion: two for, two for, two for. Please record. Lavrick gives the word. Lavrick passes it to Oleni Sotnik. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u9	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Well, I just want to take this opportunity to explain to people who are watching what's going on in this room right now. Although Mr. Knazevitch has made it quite clear from a legal point of view that we will be. What we're going to vote for, but from a political and practical point of view, in fact, all that's going on is imitation. The Self-Help faction filed a little more than six months ago Bill 5487. This is a bill, which is an absolutely real decision, an absolutely constitutional decision, a legal decision to deprive MPs of immunity, to deprive them of what people understand, i.e. their equality before the law, from the perspective of their equality during the investigation, from the point of view of the possibility of being held accountable, from the point of view of withdrawing the process, when prosecutors agree that they are going to carry the suspicion in three months, when the question is then resolved, to stop people when then after the precautionary measures have been taken, they are delayed at the airport on the same day of the inviolability vote -- it's all imitation. Just like we're going to do this bill, exactly after a year and a half of this simulation, for which we voted literally for the break, we're going to review other bills of inviolability. That is why I call now, including the Head of the Supreme Council. If you really want to show people that MPs are equal before the law, put Bill 5487 for the next plenary week. It is a real decision to make deputies equal before the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u10	Thank you. Please, from Peter Dustock's Block, Capplin Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u11	Sergey Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. No, it's not imitation. It's pornography. What is being proposed to Parliament today is that Parliament today is going out and criticizing these bills, these absolutely necessary, historically necessary and historically important initiatives, and then voting for them, and not offering another alternative, solution to this problem, is not imitation. It's a violation of the desire, of the 27-year-old people's desire to balance the people's deputies of Ukraine, the judges, the President with ordinary, average Ukrainians. It is the abuse of the Ukrainians' desire to destroy the caste of untouchable national MPs; it is the abuse of the Ukrainians' desire to see a doctor, a teacher, a scientist, a simple, ordinary people who are better off than those present in their majority of oligarchs in the areas that are extremely sensitive and important to our nation. Dear Ukrainians, you will not be able to see within the next two years any removal of the inviolability. These games will be held continuously, you will be led around the Supreme Council of Ukraine, manipulated by this topic. No subtraction of inviolability and no new electoral law, European electoral law, will be seen. The solution to this situation is only one: the elections, the immediate elections of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. When new young political forces, new young leaders, representatives of ordinary Ukrainians, ordinary people, ideologies parties like the Socialist Party of Ukraine come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u12	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u13	Thank you. I would very much like you to hear very carefully what I have to say to you. Because the Opposition Block, you've seen that we voted in favour of including in the agenda and sending both bills to the Constitutional Court concerning the removal of immunity from the national deputies of Ukraine. But look what's coming out now and what my very first statement confirms is that when amending the Constitution of Ukraine, we need to be clear about the rules of the Rules and the Constitution of Ukraine so as not to fall under article 152 of the Constitution of Ukraine. What happened? The Supreme Council of Ukraine registered Bill No. 1776, which included the Constitutional Court’s conclusion. What does the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its apparatus do? It registers, contrary to the Rules, the same two bills are essentially prohibited by our Rules. We today, having already voted and having reached the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, are introducing, considering, and voting on, two bills. And then it turns out that we confirm for ourselves what we have violated both the Rules and the Constitution of Ukraine. We're taking and taking off, we're taking down a bill that was alive at the time, which was in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which contained the conclusion of the Constitutional Court. Dear colleagues, please read this, it's not that difficult, 2 rules of the Rules and the Constitution of Ukraine. The first two bills were discussed in some way under the procedure of alternative bills. Is this a deliberate violation of the Rules and Procedure for the Adoption of Laws, or how? Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourselves. Well, read it and follow the Rules and Constitution of Ukraine, I urge you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u14	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u15	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party The Honourable Ukrainian Parliament! Dear Ukrainian people! We are now witnessing the theatre of absurdity, imitation, propaganda, which has been happening for several days in this session hall and around the Parliament building. The puppet shows that are currently taking place under Parliament and here in the middle are sitting on a nearby street on Bank Street. I am convinced and our faction is convinced that this whole theater of absurdity is being performed in the interests of one official, namely President Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko of Ukraine. It is in his best interests that a person without citizenship, Michael Saakashvili. Because how else can it be explained that a person without citizenship who calls for the blocking of the Ukrainian Parliament is not detained, arrested or deported. How can this be explained? I would like to be heard by the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of Security of Ukraine. It is the activity of this person without citizenship to abuse the Ukrainian people and Ukrainian legislation. And now, most of all. If in two months or three, when the Constitutional Court comes to its conclusion, I will personally convince the faction and not all those present in the room to vote in favour of these laws. Because Europeans and mojitos. These all, they act in the interests of usurping power by the President of Ukraine, exclusively. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u16	Colleagues, we've finished the discussion. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I want to ask if everyone understands the point of voting. We are simply clearing the field so that the laws that we voted for before lunch can be fully considered. Will we be able to support you, colleagues? Everybody understand? Do you support me, colleagues? We've got 226 votes. I'm asking you to support everyone. This is actually supporting those bills that we voted for lunch. So I ask you to take your place, Mr. Arthur, every vote will now matter, and prepare for the vote. Immediately after this vote, we move on to electoral reform. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I think Ruslan Knyazevich has told me enough, in detail. And I'm sure the whole room will vote and the whole room will support it. Ostrikova, take the job, please. I won't deal with it. Ready to vote? So I'm putting to the vote draft Decree No. 1776 P-3 on the withdrawal of the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine. The committee requests that it be voted on as a basis and, in general, as colleagues. Please support everyone. It's a technical but important legal thing to do. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Let's vote, fellows! It's important, legally, technologically important. Please vote and please support. Vote. Vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[16:29:16]] For-188. Well, not everyone was. Turn on the factions so we can see. The factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 84, People's Front – 45, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 23, Oleg Ljashka Radical Party – 13, Parenthood – 4, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 0. Colleagues, what am I to do to explain, colleagues? Knazevitch, one more minute, explain. Ruslan, please explain again. Turn on the microphone. That's a technical question. We can prevent the consideration of previous bills. Support, colleagues, all of you. Please, Ruslan Knazevitch, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to answer, this is where one of the deputies reproached the committee and parliament for not having properly registered bills. But the committee isn't responsible for the registration, it's the committee where you work, so the question is, rather, to the committee. And the fact that Mr. Levchenko spoke very well about the fact that his bill was also registered in breach of procedure is certainly not up to me. About what's going on. Guys, we need to get this bill off the table, because it's actually morally outdated, and we can't, by going through it, just like that, by shutting our eyes on it, keep moving purely through constitutional procedure. Let's deliberately not create obstacles in this way, but do everything we can if we want to achieve the desired result. For everything else is from the wicked one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u18	Okay. Lechenko, one minute. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall, colleagues. I want to ask everyone, are you ready to vote? You're ready, aren't you? Ready to vote? Yes. Please, Levchenka, one minute, turn it on. Everyone, please step into the hall and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u19	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. It's just been said that something of mine is illegally registered, it's not true. Bill 6773 was legally registered under the Rules because it applies exclusively to one article, one article to the 1980s, and not three articles as previously registered Bill 1776. Thus, he was not treated as an alternative under the Rules, so he was legally registered. Unlike Bill 7203, which was illegally registered yesterday. As for question 1776, what we're looking at right now. Of course, it's desirable to vote it out, and Freedom votes for rejection. But in fact, if you say it again in terms of legislation, even if it's not rejected, it doesn't stop you from considering Bill 6773. Because it applies exclusively to one article. This is the case with the three articles. So, yes, we simply have to reject it in order to knock out the argument, those who refuse to undo the inviolability, but really understand that this is not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u20	Colleagues, I'll be right back. I ask everyone to come into the hall and take part in the vote. And I ask everyone to support it, it's a technical thing, and I don't understand why there are voices against it, or who don't vote. Let's take a responsible approach to this. Let's open the way for the Laws of Inviolability. Ready? I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft regulation 1776. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Support me, colleagues, all of you. Vote. [[16:33:03]] For 202 202. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I consulted with the committee head. If we don't vote, he'll just keep hanging out on the committee, it'll be wrong. I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'm going to ask you to come back. Please take up jobs. Invite the deputies into the hall, colleagues. Invite the deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? I'm re-voting the motion, and I'm asking everyone to vote, back to Project Order 1776, colleague. Careful, every voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u21	Sure. Please. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. It's not politics, it's a legal norm. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. We're voting carefully. Please be supportive. Vote. Well, who's against it all the time? [[16:35:07]] For 204 204. Ruslan, I'm sorry, there are no votes. This bill will continue to be on the committee when it's ready, I'll re-set the hall to determine how to proceed. You don't make a decision today, I'm afraid. So, colleagues, let's move on to the draft Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies. And, colleagues, I would like to inform you that seven meetings took place under my vote. We've considered each of those bills, but there's still a major question and a task left for the factions to determine which of them could be the basis for the development of a single joint bill. Now we're going to be looking at three bills: 1068, 1068-1 and 1068-2. I am convinced that Parliament must stop at one of them so that it becomes the basis for development and improvement so that a bill that we will adopt as a whole can emerge on its basis. We have other codes, and you know that me and Yemen are the authors of codes on open lists. And I want to emphasize once again that I am a persuasive supporter of open lists. And I'm going to call on Parliament to be able to make a positive decision today by one of those laws. I would also like to point out that consideration will take place in full procedure, because each of those laws has more than 100 articles. And we don't have the right to treat them differently as a complete procedure. And that's why, colleagues, I'm announcing the transition to the drafts of the Ukrainian People's Deputies Act. First draft of Law 1068. Is Yuri Romanovich present at Miroshnichenko Hall? Yes. And I invite you to the report by Miroshnik Yuri Romanovich. We're starting a discussion of the bill. No, it's not. Good morning, colleagues! Good morning! Please, Mr. Yuri. The computer will now show you how much time, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u22	How much time do I have, dear colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u23	Ten minutes. But, colleagues, I don’t think all ten of us have to use it to make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u24	Well, actually, thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Honorable colleagues may not only be present in the Hall, but all Ukrainian citizens who are now closely observing the events in the Supreme Council may need to understand why in the Ukrainian society, why do politicians say so much about the need to change the electoral system? Why many insist, starting with the opposition, that Ukraine should be given a fair electoral system if every person’s vote was to matter if representatives in the Ukrainian parliament of a territorial community were legitimate and were to work in the interests of Ukrainian citizens. That's because I've been doing a few references to electoral legislation, and we've analyzed the advantages and disadvantages of each of the electoral systems. And this is a traditional majority system, where every majority district is chosen by a simple majority of MPs. It's a proportional system with so-called closed lists, where the party defines a list of people who are supposed to represent a political power in Parliament, when they get votes, they form factions. And each of these systems had their own advantages and disadvantages. If the majority system prefers that each electorate knows who he is personally voting for, then there was also the disadvantage of this system when, unfortunately, very often the election of deputies was turned into a fairly corrupt scheme, and only the wealthy candidates had the opportunity to elect to the Ukrainian Parliament. Similarly, a proportional system with closed lists had its advantages and disadvantages. When, on the one hand, the political power that offers society its course of development, its vision of the future, its programs, its team that will form perhaps then the executive power, together with the relationship between the deputy and the territorial community, each citizen was violated. The closed lists allowed those who might not have been exemplary in terms of their professional, moral, and ethical qualities to enter the parliament. That's why the analysis and the experts and the politicians and the analysis of international experience have chosen that system, and it's now being proposed, which combines the advantages of both of the above-mentioned electoral systems, is a proportional electoral system with regional electoral lists. Where every citizen is given the opportunity to vote for the party and within the party lists for each candidate, the political forces are the candidates. And in this way, we provide a link between a political course that will then be implemented and another political force that will make up the majority in Parliament and the relationship between Ukrainian citizens, what is undoubtedly a plus-majority system. As far as the bills that we are currently considering are concerned, in the vast majority of authors, perhaps each for their own sake, but tried to combine the advantages of a major and proportional system, offering an optimal model. What kind of electoral system would I see, literally in two words, not to take up the time that would be optimal for Ukraine? In addition to being proportional to the open regional lists, the elections, to my belief, should be held in a national district that will be divided into territorial districts, each of which should be elected from 8 to 12 deputies. On the basis of the lists of party candidates in the districts, a national list of party candidates is drawn up, and the turnaround is determined by the party at the convention. After the identification of CFCs, parties that have overcome the electoral barrier have voted for their candidates in all constituencies and nationalities. and the foreign constituency, they get bored and divide by 450, this number is considered to be an electoral quota. After that, the votes cast for all candidates from each of these parties are divided into electoral quotas. Undistributed mandates are distributed among parties by analogy with valid law. All candidates who receive in the district the number of votes equal to or greater than the voting quota are guaranteed to be selected regardless of the order in the party list, provided that the party has overcome the election barrier. The first five candidates offer 10 first candidates, about three candidates. But for national elections, which. elections, where party leaders will generally present programmes at national level, present their political position. Accordingly, they will not be able to visit the constituency directly, they will be reserved, at my offer of five seats to pass the apiorium, if the party chooses, the passage barrier will pass. Then, from the number of candidates who have received a party within the national district, the number of deputies elected in the territorial districts is subtracted from the first five within the remainder of the party’s votes that are considered to have been received. the elected candidates are considered to be members of a party that lacks the minimum number of votes in the constituencies to be considered elected in the respective district. Dear colleagues! As for the barrier, one percent, because what I'm proposing is one percent, and 450 is one percent. If the barrier is higher, the first one can be made, not by five, but by ten. For example, if the barrier is two percent and so on. I'll put it this way, in principle, if we take it, and we're obliged just today, so we don't waste time, take one law as a basis, of course I'm aging for my own, but respecting my colleagues who worked as well. And we, like Andry Volodymyrovich, said seven meetings were held by our groups, we shared our thoughts, we listened to the experts, we analyzed, we had the pluses, and the minuses have a problem there with the unfilled districts there. Well, more specifically, mandates will be a problem. But in general, we can, on the basis of one of the laws today, doubtless that you vote, I shouldn't say that, for an offer from the opposition MP. But I respect the choice of all my colleagues who have proposed their bills and on this basis to work on that model. In principle, we can talk about the barrier because it's adjusted for the second reading, and we can talk about the size of the districts, for example, we've offered to take the basic size of the district after the population so that they're the same little area that we've proposed to take it as a base. You can go a different way, but the very basic principle is when we have a citizen voting in favour of a deputy and a deputy who is public, who talks to the electorate, who goes to a meeting, who introduces bills, who votes, who makes his point of view, has prospects even if he's on the party list below, but the elector himself can make him a deputy even if the one who stood above him in this list in the district doesn't. Dear colleagues, I will no longer take up time, mostly speaking to our voters who listen and watch us on TV. But I would like today not to go away in vain is an extremely important step. This will allow us to involve people in Parliament who see their work in Parliament as truly professional, truly ethical and truly effective. For many years we have tried to talk about this in public debates, on television channels, but today there is a chance to take a step towards making this a Ukrainian reality. Thank you for your attention, and I hope that this law will be adopted today as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u25	Mr. Yuri, thank you. But you stay in the rostrum, now three more minutes to ask questions, you'll be able to enter the debate. I want to thank you, like all the members of the working group, for their very active work. And I'd like my colleagues to sign up for a question to the first law reporter. Please. And don't be so critical of your bill. We love you no matter what faction you belong to. Please, Popov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u26	Dear Mr. Jury, of course, the Radical Party supports the idea of launching open regional lists elections -- that's our software requirement. However, as you rightly said, one of the main reasons why we want to give up the majority component is that money has too much influence on the election. In your opinion, if you are proposing a one - percent election barrier, is that the problem of large money and their impact on elections? Will money still be able to raise that one percent, and so we don't solve the problem? And the second question is the same as the election barrier. In your opinion, one percent of the electoral barrier or guarantee us against the creation of separatist parties? Because an active five percent barrier requires any party that claims to enter parliament to have representation as a minimum in half of Ukraine, and preferably in all areas. If we offer one percent, will it not lead to consolidation and increased separatist movements in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u27	Thank you, Mr. Igor. Well, first of all, I think that you are one of the best experts in electoral law in Ukraine, and of course, the question that you've asked, which is related to the barrier, is regulated in our legislative initiatives, and the requirement that the party put out its candidates no less than two-thirds of the territorial constituencies is the first security guard for separatist parties. And the second thing you're talking about is absolutely fair: one percent is the possibility for new parties to go to Parliament and ensure representation, on the other hand, we should not allow the growth of such regional parties. I'm a one-percent supporter myself. Why? Because it's better for us here, in Parliament, to have a discussion, even if it's about problems in the territories than to localize them in a regional facility and actually get them out.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u28	Ten seconds to complete. Oh, we're done. Please, next question, from Simeoniah. Please, Mr. Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u29	Well, that's my point of view. Of course, Parliament will be determined on a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u30	Please, Mr. Semenha, ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u31	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Mr. Yuri, thank you for the presentation. I have two questions for you. Question one. The blocks remain the subject of the election of candidates to the Ukrainian National Deputies. I want to ask you what the point is, because the whole story of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism says that any block that was formed was actually made up of oligarchs and didn't live until the next election, so what's the point? That's the first question. Second question. If you say, well, for example, if it's the first five and people see it and can choose it, then the rest of the list is closed to the electorate. What, then, is the opening of the list? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u32	Thank you very much. So it's about closing the list. No, they are, the first five are national, which is where the reservation is. But all the other candidates are elected in territorial constituencies, multi-mandatory, from 8 to 12 will be mandates in each constituency. And that's where they're agitating for themselves. So let's say that if we take the Chernivci, the area, as the base, there are 8 mandates, they're agitating throughout the whole area, that is, people know them. And they're already agitating, all eight candidates, they're given mandates, not like they're on the party list, but like they voted for. Whoever gets the election quota becomes a deputy. As far as the blocks are concerned. Dear colleagues, I offer only parties, but for the blocks it is also possible. This could be a second reading. But I think the barrier should be changed. For example, for the party, 1 percent, for the blocks, 5. Or as Sergey Kaplin suggests as a compromise, 3 and 7, for example.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u33	Please have a question from the national deputy Yatzenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u34	Dear Mr. Miroshnichenko, I respect you personally as a person, but I have such a simple question. There are people in this room who have gone through the lists. Someone went through the authority of the chief, we have all the party chiefs, someone was actually buying a mandate, someone was, excuse me, going through because they had a good intimate relationship with someone, and so on and so forth. Drivers, guards, and so on. So the party system discredited itself completely, in my opinion. And there are majors who held elections that were chosen by the people. And now we're going to talk about a bunch of people under the Supreme Council who say we should cancel the Majority because we don't like certain forces. So I have a question to ask you, have you personally forgotten that the only source of power is the people, and the biggest form of democracy is direct elections, not those who go on lists in turn somewhere? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u35	Thank you, Anton. Thank you, thank you. And I think it's a question not only from Anton, but also from all majors. That's an absolutely fair question. But I'll tell you what, Mr. Mayor, this election system with open regional lists gives you competitive advantages because you're already working in the territories, you're already helping people, you're already known, and you already have your own electorate. Even if you work in that territory in your district, you will get the number of votes that personally guarantee you going to parliament. Those on the lists, however, need to identify themselves with the territory and work hard to vote for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u36	Dear Mr. Yuri, we've run out of minutes, but there's no way in the Presidium to sign up for questions. I'm going to allow myself to ask questions not only from the National MP, but also from the IFF "Equal Opportunities", which includes almost all female MPs, also very many male MPs who have long registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine also a bill on the need to introduce a gender quota into the law, into the electoral legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The right quota is set in the electoral legislation of the regional authorities. And I want to ask college girls from all the questions about why your law does not provide for this rule that has shown its positive value in elections to local authorities. And how do you feel about the introduction of a gender quota that may protect male politicians in the next election, your law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u37	Mrs. Irina, thank you for asking. Although this is not the norm, my bill was prepared earlier. I fully share and am willing to be the subject of the legislative initiative for second reading and to sign the amendment. And even willing to offer a quota of 20 percent for.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u38	We have a quota of 30 percent. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u39	30! Okay, 30 percent. Because I'm sorry. We were talking about. Because we were discussing 10 in the working group. I want to say that maybe 30 percent is going to be small. But as a guaranteed presence on the list of women's candidates, I think it's absolutely right, I'm dividing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u40	Thank you for your clarification. The only clarification. The gender quota is not for women, but for the same sex, it can be for men. Thank you. Please enter the workplace. And please report to the alternative bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Everyone realized that it was not about women, but about one of the articles in two articles. Please give the floor, for an alternative bill, to report number 1068-1, to the National MP Sergio Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u41	Mr. Irina, in answer to your question about the gender quota, our bill provides that the first issue of the list can only be a woman. [[Applause]] And at least 70 percent of the same sex. Well, it's a joke. Now essentially. [[B in m in s a l in]] Basically. What's our bill about? Our bill takes into account a number of factors that we have studied since the election under the Januković law. Colleagues, let's not lie to each other. The law, by which everyone became members of this Parliament, is the law that was written in Janukovich's office and by which we were all elected. If this law is passed and only the President's last name has changed, it doesn't suit us. And that's why three years ago, in December 2014, we registered a bill that says we're proposing an actually updated system of open lists. But I want to stress once again the date of the registration – for three years no one even wanted to go to the draft. He was on the committees first, until, in fact, here I can thank those thousands of people who were on the street who were able to start looking at the electoral law at last. Everyone was afraid. God forbid the election law will be passed, the election will be announced tomorrow. On the contrary, this is the best way to prepare for the election. And any party, any politician, is preparing for the election on the first day of the election. He needs to understand the rules under which the election takes place. And the fact that we had more than once in a month or two before the election campaign began was changing the electoral law, it just added up chaos and anarchy to the electoral system. That's why we're early, literally on the third day of this vocation, we've put in a bill that provides for a system that is proportional but with open lists. What's the point of our proportional system with open lists? There's the first ten that doesn't stick around. Everyone else is anchored in the respective districts, and that will be the possibility, I emphasize once again, not the duty, but the possibility that the person who takes the best result in his district in the party would have the opportunity to be listed accordingly in the party list, which means that in Parliament. The other one. Our bill was written three years ago. During this time, we passed the so - called open list system of locals. In our view, this system has not passed the test of time. This system was once again a system of competing money bags, only worse. When representatives of one party fought with each other because they had to fight against their own candidates to make their place better. I think it's an absurd system that's been tested in Poland in its own time. Poles quickly adapted to it and simply did not put up a suitable number of candidates in other districts. Then they realized that this was the way to nowhere, and they went, really, to open party lists proportional. That's what we're proposing. The other one. We believe that there should be a clear, defined principle of the formation of central and appropriate electoral committees. We have enshrined this principle in order to enable non-parliamentary parties to be as represented as possible on the committees. We offer only one person from those who went to Parliament, and all the rest, this is actually an opportunity for any party to be represented on the respective committees. It's very important. Because it is not possible to preserve a system that will have only three, five, or seven parties that will continue to form appropriate committees. The next moment, which is very principled. This is the moment that this system gives in the competition. We don't have any competition between the candidates of the same party. Because I already said that, well, it's absurd, when in fact, and it's not a secret, in these elections individual parties and their candidates actually threw all the dirty materials at each other to get as many votes as possible and then get a seat on the local council. Where will that come from? So we're offering a completely open system that's being printed in advance. It's not just a list of candidates who say partying, year of birth or profession at best. Each candidate actually prepares a file if you want to get to know all of us together, who will form such lists, who will get to know our voters. But in the age of the Internet, I don't think there's any problem with our electorate finding absolutely no problem with any amount of information that will allow us to analyze to the last 450 places that represent one or another candidate on this list. And this is also very important. Because when the list is simply given by name, by name, by father, and just a few weeks before the election, there is no more information: the year of birth, the profession, the party, then it is very difficult to find material for what the party list represents. The next moment, which is very principled. This is the moment in which the votes are calculated. In our view, we need to avoid all the flaws that were in the electoral systems when we voted for one and then went through completely different ones, either because of the decision of the CLTC, as it was before 2000, or because of the decisions of the respective committees. That's why our proposal is: a very clear principle for issuing wet seal protocols. No copies can then be sued in the courts, and the wet seal protocols, which are prepared in advance and after the election results, all relevant data are included in these protocols. This is the basis for the parallel counting of votes, which is the basis for the prosecution in the courts if they see that this principle is completely violated. And I think it's very important, too. And I want to say right away, we're open to discussion. The bill was registered three years ago, but what we've brought up over the last three years. You'll see how far the decision is getting in this session room. When it comes to making a decision, it's a full room. When it comes to decision-making, they change the laws even to make it go away. Now, in my opinion, one of the most important elements of political reform is that nobody needs it because no one believes that this feudal electoral law will eventually be changed. I was a major myself, and I've walked twice, and I haven't been hiding in the districts, and I've been in the same district, and I've been going through it, and you can look at the Internet with what results. But I'm sorry, it was 1990 and 1994. In 1990, I used my teacher’s salary for the election. And that was enough for me to win honest and open elections. In 1994, I had the exact salary of a deputy who then made up 20 dollars so that no one would doubt. And that's enough for me to fight the election. What's going on with the electoral system right now is full advocacy, it's not about competing ideas, it's not about competing real candidates who can make their stand, who can stand up for their position. Unfortunately, this has turned into an open-field competition or any other good that appears to be in Greek, or personally, because of the costs in tents. If this continues, well, then let's do some price of access to the MP's mandate, let's make an amendment to the fact that you can't register for an election that doesn't have less than a million. How will this end? So our proposal is to move this terrible system of feudal addiction from a dead point of view and eventually move on to the system when there's a race of ideas. We have absolutely supported the ideology of banning direct political advertising, this brainwashing that's happening is absurd. You want to prove something, prove it by your work, not by advertising. Thank you for your attention. I am ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u42	Thank you. Please sign up for a question to the distinguished reporter. On occasion, I will point out that the first issue of the list is a woman’s. This is also sexism in relation to men. We can't support that. Please sign up for the question. For equality, we're all here for equality both to women and to men. Please, Mr. Kishkar, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u43	Mr. Sergio, when you're fully sharing the main idea of your bill, talk again about the barrier, about the election of those candidates from the parties that you see in the districts, I understand. And wouldn't that be the same contrast that you were talking about in the local elections, and I confirm your words, and sometimes there's an absurdity in the big parties, and there's not going to be a confrontation between this internal political, these county candidates, exactly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u44	By the barrier. We've got it here. We have a five - percent barrier here, but we do not insist on it. We understand that this is an open topic for discussion, and I think the session hall will be absolutely logical to present parties that have not had the opportunity, for example, to overcome this barrier. And I think that when the principle of party financing was defined, what we did there was that we killed the principle of financing not only the parties that went to parliament, but also others, as it is, for example, in the German electoral system. It's a very good incentive. What's going on with the blocks. Our bill is open to this. So we don't have any limitations on that. But I think it should be defined not by the electorate, sorry, not by the legislator, it should be by the electorate. The only limit that can be, as many countries have introduced, is the different percentages required for the blocs, for example, and for the parties in order to actually promote maximum integration rather than disunity of political forces. The priority not assigned to the candidate identification system.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u45	I'm just worried that we might be able to talk this through, Mr. Sergio. Please have a question from the national deputy Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u46	Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u47	Please, Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u48	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear Mr. Sergio, thank you for the presentation. I want to thank you for a bill that apparently has many positive novelties, including the ban on political advertising. This is very good. However, we are concerned about a novelty. I want you to explain how we understand that once the Central Electoral Commission has established the previous results of the elections, the central body of the political party has the right to actually review the list. Does this not mean an actual review of people’s will? This is a very important moment. Explain, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u49	Look, this is, by the way, the question that I haven't been able to answer. According to our project, it's actually an incentive for a candidate to work in the district. But the factors that are considered are different. If it's just one factor -- the number of votes you've received, it's going to be another voter bribe, because again, those who have more money will win. That is why we have set a standard that is much softer, and that is the norm. But again I'm saying, the law registered three years ago, you understand that, after that, I realize that election technology, electoral thinking has moved forward a lot. But our technology was just an opportunity to combine your well-deserved place on the party list, because going to the Estonian version, well, that's impossible. Look at the Estonian version, where it is possible for the electorate to list you. This was used by up to one-and-a-half percent of voters, and it didn't change anything radically. That's why we picked up a whole package of factors that actually allows you to work in the district.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u50	Thank you. There's one more question left. Please, Mr. Yatzenko, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u51	Dear Mr. Sobolev, I know that you are, indeed, a very good speaker, but I immediately mention such a Ukrainian proverb as is beautiful in recent times, that the Ukrainian intends that there be no corruption and that the godfather can solve everything. Why is this first ten needed today, let there be a leader who will be or who will be the first one, and let all others go through the purgatory of direct elections and win. It's not like someone's gonna hide, and someone's gonna be in the hole watching you remember the movie "Gentlemen of Good Luck." So I'd like to ask you very much to explain why this first ten is needed, whether it's narrowing the voter rights again. And what I'm trying to say is that the offer to all majors is not supported by this law and to complete it, as they say, "Bobek in Barbos in the guests" today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u52	Look, you're contradicting yourself, first you're saying that the number of districts should be 450-449, just a leader, so it's the same majority system that's just not mixed, let's face it, and it's a majority system. With this system, let's not bother with people who are open proportional party lists, it's a pure majority, when one seat is reserved for the leader, if that's an offer, we won't agree to that. Our position is to take into account the ideologies of parties with which they go out and not through advertising, but through advertising daily, but through real work. But there has to be a factor that the party should be able to get as many people as possible involved in the districts. This combination is, I think, the key point that we should define here. In fact, thank you again for asking, for the suggestions, we are open to discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u53	Done yes, thank you very much. Colleagues, I now invite you to the report of the author of the third bill, which was proposed by a group of deputies from different factions, but the lead reporter was identified by Chumak Viktor Vasilovich. And I've only got one statement, and we have a little bit of tension over time, and so maybe we don't have to spend all ten minutes trying to explain our position in a more concise way. And I invite you to the report, Chumak Viktor Vasilovich. Where's Victor Vasilovich? Yes. So, colleagues, Chumak Viktor Vasilovich, the request to build a more concise performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u54	Good afternoon, fellow citizens! Chumak Viktor Vasilovich, 214 constituency, Kiev I'm also a major, and I've been a major twice, but I'm in favour of canceling a major. I can explain very simply on my fingers why I'm doing this, because in principle a proportional system is a system that is structured by political society. This is the system that raises ideological parties, this is the system that allows people to choose the way, the concept, the social development program. Why is that? Why are we now living under the 2011 law? On my fingertips, the Party of Regions did this law then just because it realized that in a political sense it would never win the election and it was done that way. In 2012, the Party of Regions lost 68 votes, mandates, but the faction made 170 deputies at the expense of majorists, and thus simply replaced the political choice of society. And so society started to develop in a completely different direction, and we have consequences. That's the effect of all of them. All the negative effects of recent years, all the negative consequences of pensions and salaries, tariffs and so on, are the consequences of the wrong electoral system. The electoral system is like a door that lets people into politics, and if this door is properly set up, it allows normal, honest people who come here not to earn money, but in principle to defend the interests of citizens. Now for Law 1068-2. This is not the law of Chumak, Agaphon, Hamtza, or other national deputies. This is a law that was worked by a group of national deputies led by national deputies and experts led by Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski in 2009, I believe, and has been under review in the Supreme Council more than once. This is a law that today has a positive conclusion for the Venice Commission, a project. This is a law that has a positive conclusion from the OSCE Human Rights Bureau, a law that has a positive conclusion from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. If you want to look at there's this little book that basically describes all the flaws and disadvantages and advantages of these laws, it released IFES Open-List Election Systems and all that. You're all sent to e-mail this presentation under this law and you can look at it as well. What's the point? It's a very simple point. The point is, in principle, this law takes into account what all the factions and coalitions have promised that the electorate would first influence the formation of the electoral list of parties. This is the first time. And secondly, this is a party system with open lists where the electorate can influence the order in which the lists are formed. How is this done? The party presents almost two types of lists at its convention. The first is a statewide list of where it goes. may include at least 135 deputies. Why? Because at the same time, the party forms 27. 28 (excuse me, along with the foreign district) election lists, which may include at least five national deputies. five candidates. So this is not less than 135 deputies. Together with the preservation of the gender quota, this bill provides that at least two persons of different sexes, i.e. virtually all gender requirements, should be included in each five. Elections will be held in general. a general constituency, which will include exactly 27 regional districts. Hanging rights are fixed by lots, self-registration is not anticipated. Two types of lists -- that's what I've been talking about. The right to form electoral funds is provided by parties and candidates included in the lists. and candidates included in the lists do not form their own election funds. More than that, how the vote takes place. The vote takes place on a special ballot, according to a special traffic ticket. The voter votes, puts the number in the queue from the party, and if he wants, he puts the number of the candidate in the regional list. But this is not necessarily the case. If he doesn't put the polling number behind the party, this ballot until the vote is counted is not allowed, it's invalid. But if you don't vote for a particular candidate, that's normal, that vote counts as a party. The distribution of votes is as follows: Only those parties that in the national district have received 3 percent of the votes are included in the distribution of votes. All the votes cast during the vote shall be calculated by the Central Electoral Commission and accounted for by the so-called 'election quota'. It is divided into 450 persons, and this is determined by the quota per national MP. So we know how many votes there will be in Chernobyl, how many in Hmelnick, how many in Johno-Frankow and other areas. The number of votes in each region depends on the voter’s appearance. This can be both positive and negative. Because if appearing in some electoral territories is large enough and in others low, it's going to be a imbalance. But if the expression is more or less, let's say, proportional, it's going to be absolutely equal to the representation of population from each region. After counting the number of voters in the regional districts, the remaining parties that have not passed, who have not passed to the distribution of votes, are again calculated by quota, and are proportionally added by each party, they are proportionally added by each party to the compensatory so-called vote, each party according to how many votes it has won. But these remains are already being distributed, not between the regional districts, but between the general government list, so in order of the votes that are being defined there. Thus, practically always parties that raise 3 percent of the votes will be represented in Parliament by their party top. So party management, and it's desirable that it be represented, is always guaranteed to be on this list. In addition, the law makes it very clear that there is a division between campaigning and information campaigning. That's very important, because the law actually limits the election. pre-election agitation, but in principle there is a special form of agitation such as radio debates. That's exactly what it takes. We're not supposed to see videos where there's more beautiful, or smarter, or something there that's more beautiful than a beautiful sunset. And we need to hear normal candidates debate in the presence of their voters. Dear friends, I fully understand that there are no ideal systems. Each system has its own faults, its own advantages. That's absolutely true. In this system -- I want to go to the majors, I'm twice the major, an active major in this system has a huge advantage, an active major already known in their territories. An active major may no longer fear that he will, in principle, be noticed. It is clear in this law that you should not go on television or hide in the middle of the list. This law gives people the opportunity to work with them. And the parties themselves will be interested in voting for those who are popular, thereby supporting domestic competition. Dear friends, the country is in stagnation. And we're running behind this vicious circle just because we're not allowed to update the political elites, just because we're not allowed to come here completely different people with other values, programs, ideas, with another head. Let's give the way and the possibilities to do that, let's give the opportunity to essentially change the entire political system. This system, which is uncompetitive, this system, which is based on bribery, on Greek and on everything else, it just destroys the country. We have a chance to make it impossible for you. Let's take this chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u55	Thank you. Colleagues, I want to say my personal opinion as the head of the task force. This bill, which has been reported by both Leonid Jemetz and Novak and Rizanenko, is most appropriate for what we call open lists. And I will personally propose to vote that we take it as a basis. But, colleagues, along with that, I remind you, we are fast running out of time. There's got to be a report by the committee head. I ask in advance the heads of factions with understanding to refer to the fact that when they speak, not by 3 minutes, but by 2 minutes. It's full, but it's 2 minutes, not 3 minutes. That's why I'm asking, Roman, that we go out for a vote not at 6:30, but at 6:00. That's why I'm asking you to come to the hall. Now, if you'd like to sign up for a question at Chumak's. Please sign up for the question. Yes, as long as they are recorded, Mrs. Irina will ask the principled question of Victor Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u56	Yes, a very short question, Mr. Lawmaker, co-author of the bill. During your report, you said that there would be at least two women in each five, and why not two men? And the question from the IFF "Equal Opportunities" is what we have. [[B in m in s a l in]] He told me wrong. Well, give me an answer then.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u57	Dear friends! I said at least two people of every sex. If I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u58	Couple of times. Couple of times. Melnichenko Vladimir Volodymyrovic, "Block of Petra Poroshenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u59	Deputies! But we had different systems: both proportional and major and mixed, but they say nothing changes. And you know that the proportional system is more corrupt. We remember how much space was on the list. So it's better that these funds go to major districts, people get bitter, people get other benefits than party cash registers. And so I think today's system is the optimal system. I'm talking to my constituents, and 90 percent of them say, "Glory to God, we have an MP today to look to, who solves our problems." And because, as my colleague said it would take some time, if there was even a new electoral system, in a year or six months, our voters would yell again, as our one falcon says, that the MPs are the cattle. And that's why I'm supporting my major colleague that people should see a major MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u60	I can answer very briefly. I'm dating people, I'm a major, I'm a country-walker, I'm meeting people. You know, they understand very well that bitters, benches, fancy driveways, glass windows, and so forth, are not a direct bribe for voters. They clearly realize that what you have placed on them today is that you have taken them into slavery for five years. What's more, they understand very well that you're doing this not for your money, but for the subsidies from the state budget that are being allocated to your district. Moreover, a lot of people realize that these subsidies are not just for someone, but for your companies or your friends, your loved ones, your wives, and so forth. They understand all of this. Therefore, we do not need to say that Ukrainians do not understand what our current mayor is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u61	Thank you. Wojciecki Victoria Mikhailna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u62	Please give it to Ruslan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u63	Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u64	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Mr. Victor, first of all, thank you all for your presentations. And in the context of decommissioning the majority of the majority, I think the hall is merging, I'd like to ask you to explain more about the mechanism for ranking members in the regional constituencies. I mean, what does the constituency of the electorate have to do with the results of the vote and who eventually becomes a national deputy in the respective regional district?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u65	Regional lists are confirmed at the party assembly. Regional lists are confirmed at the party assembly. They don't go by, well, ranking at the party assembly is going on the party's decision. But already in the voting district, and those districts, as you understand, 28 will, the electorate will vote. He's voting for the party, putting a double number there, which means he's voting for the party. And if he wants, he's voting for the number of the candidate on the list of this party, too, in this cell. If this candidate votes for most of the voters in this district, he's moving in the list, in the regional electoral list up. So in principle, people support the people they know, the popular people that come to them, that's all. That's what this is all about. And on a large scale, if the party wins four and five electoral quotas, and people move in places, they're going to get higher places in those quotas.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u66	I mean, Ruslan, we talked about it. The elector selects not only the party but also the electorate determines who of this party is due first to go to parliament. Yes, at least five in the district. The electorate influences who should represent the party, not just the party. So my colleagues finished their questions. Thank you very much. Time's up, Igor. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, pay attention! Listen to me carefully. I'll give you my word, Igor. Don't react so emotionally, Igor, I'll give you my word. I just want to let you know, there will be more speeches from each faction now and there will be speeches from the deputies. I can't give my word, Mr. Chubarov, with all due respect, because there's another one that's written down. But there will be speeches from the deputies, and I'm sure one of the deputies, if you don't fall, will give you the word. And Victor Chumak will answer. We have very limited regulations. I'm going to act very tightly in terms. Last question, Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u67	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. We support the updating of electoral legislation by election of a proportional system with open lists. But I have three short questions. First. Please tell us the regional lists that you are proposing, will it not be a regional separatism? How will the barrier be defined? The other one. Won't this five be the same major with all of it? And the third. Does your bill foresee, and if it provides, how does it call off the national MP who betrayed the party from which the electorate was elected and elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u68	From the last question, it has a very short answer, from the last part of the question, it's an imperative mandate, which is prescribed in the Constitution, and there's nothing to be done here. Within an imperative mandate, we have two deputies who have left Parliament in accordance with an imperative mandate. Another question that you were talking about: Isn't it going to be a vote buy? Won't that be a vote buy? You know, it's going to depend on the party. If, in principle, you will know that in your five, someone is running or in your ten, someone is running and sowing in the Greek district, sorry, this is your question to your party, how your party will treat the people it involves. I'm not talking about your party, I'm talking about any party you're going to have. It's not about the RPL, I know it's an honest party. And over with the question you said, Igor, please tell me. Ah, separatism. You see, the situation is that, in principle, the regional lists are formed by the political assembly of the party, and the party is responsible for those who. [[B in m in s a l in]] Cheers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u69	Thank you, colleagues. Thank you, colleagues. Please. Is there anyone in this room who would deny that I would give the word of Chubarov for a question? Nobody's here. Chubarov, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u70	Thank you, Mr. Head. Victor Vasilovich, look, your bill has districts, regions, and they're all going around the same area. But you have 18 districts where you call South (Herson County, Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol). Well, unfortunately, we think that the new elections will still be in a situation where Crimea will still be occupied. Well, we need to think about how to deal with this. But I have a different question. Here, you know, the will of voters from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol is being undermined. So didn't you think about what you could do in the extraterritorial district of Crimea?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u71	This question is questionable. I think we can, in principle, go into second reading to do that. We wrote it and it was written a little earlier. You see, the bill itself was written a little earlier. We have it, these districts have formed according to the balanced number of voters, because in Kiev, two, for example, districts, yes. And this is for a balanced number of voters. But now, I totally agree with you, now we have to look at how we can isolate this question. Well, it's a question of discussion and it's a question of second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u72	Thank you. I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice of Montenegro, Mr. Alexander Mikolaiovich, to report to the co-rapporteur. Three minutes, please. Mr. Alexander, an active member of our working group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u73	30 seconds. Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I'm very brief because the committee's conclusions on all three bills are identical. At its meeting on February 22, 2017, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice reviewed draft laws on the election of national deputies for registration numbers 1068, 1068-1,1068-2. All these bills have just been presented to you by the authors. Each has its own advantages and disadvantages, but each of these bills offers another electoral system and various electoral procedures. Hence, it is worth noting that the main criteria to be followed by States in changing the electoral system are the criteria of relevance. This is referred to as the recommendations of the Venice Commission, and the European Court of Human Rights stands in such positions in its decisions. I will also recall that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in its decision of 26 February 1998, concluded that the definition of the components of the electoral system is a matter of political relevance, and it must be decided by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Taking into account what has been said and taking into account that the Supreme Council has registered three bills that propose the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of People's Deputies in the New Order, by amending the electoral system in the parliamentary elections, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take decisions on the draft laws on election of Ukrainian National Deputies by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u74	Thank you. Fellows, I'm addressing the factions again, and now it's going to be from the faction of the performance, and you're going to be able to speak from your faction. But I have a request that we do not object to two minutes from the factions, otherwise we will not finish. So you're ready for something that we're not going to consider today and we're not going to make a decision. Everybody ready, yeah, so we don't vote for election reform today? I'm telling you, we won't be able to see. Everybody's ready, right? Okay. They'll report. Please sign up the factions for the performance. I'll let you know who said he was ready. I can continue for 15 minutes, but no more, a meeting. Please hold the recording. Igor Mosiyczuk conveys the word Laško Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u75	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Dear initiators of the great political reform! We finally got to the real anti-corruption steps because the change in the electoral system is a real fight against corruption, because corruption starts with a major election. None of you have ever gone to a senior high school, and they don't know what it's like to have people lead to poverty, then spend 300 dollars in elections, go to parliament, then rob people by voting for laws or other laws. When you talk about the Anti-Corruption Court, which comes here and overcomes all corruption, that's a lie. The anticorruption court must be in every court from district to high so that every Ukrainian can find truth and justice in a court of law. And fighting corruption is a change in the political system, it's a change in the electoral system. It's a change of rules when politicians come to Parliament not to lie, not to rob, not to make the money that they spent on the mayor, but to work on a loan of trust from the Ukrainians. Therefore, the Radical Party team supports a complete change in the electoral system. Some of you may seem strange, but I'll tell you, our team supports the bill of my esteemed colleague, Yulia Volodymyrina Timoshenko. Very right, honest, finally the first in 20 years of Timoshenko's honest bill. I realized that there should be fair elections. Julia, in an honest fight we go out and win, I invite you to a debate. Let's talk about the electoral system, about your offshores, about your money, about your wealth, about your corruption, about your choices, go out and talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u76	He forbidded the Head to add even 10 seconds because we can't make it. I don't have a mandate, Mr. Olege. I don't have a mandate. Please, Mr. Oleg. Please, the next reporter, we're not going to make it easy, Mr. Oleg, I'm just in for, but not today, not today. Not from "the will of the people" is Mr. Litwin. Mr. Litwin from "The will of the people," then "self-help," and then you, Nestor Ivanovich, are not in front of your father. It's Mr. Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u77	Dear colleagues! I don't know that I banned the Head, but according to the Rules, three minutes. And we agreed that it would take three minutes, remember, please. First. Here one of our colleagues, who is the leader of many parties, spoke of the people awaiting the Electoral Law. I confirm that, people at meetings say that we have high pensions, we have high wages, we have no treatment problems, we have one roast, give us the Elections Act. Obviously, this law is going to be passed, but when we talk about voter bribery, let's be honest, there's more party leaders being bribed than in constituencies and that's also true. And we know that the contribution is 5 million, so far the courts are going to be in our fair trial. But the decision is not made so that we can be objective. The other one. For starters, you have to have parties, not business structures, to choose party lists. We need the political structure of society and let's say to people directly, at the expense of people, we're going to seek the political structure of society. But at the same time, honourable colleagues, cancel the funding that you put in your budget for two years and this year 513 in your budget, and you say, little is needed for a billion. How can the new political forces get through when you want to preserve yourself in this dead room? And finally, one more moment. We need to create normal conditions for debates to be made, to have access to the media, and they're now monopolized, the oligarchs are patronizing certain political groups, and they're letting certain groups of people on the channels, and you know that. So let us keep an honest dialogue and make a real decision that will allow us to have political responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u78	Thank you for betting in two minutes. Please, from the Self-Help faction, National Deputy Sidorovich. Excuse me, Semenich, and Sidorovich passes the word to Semensi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u79	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, Madam Chairman! I'll remind everyone that lifting MP immunity and introducing open party lists was a fundamental requirement of the Dignity Revolution. Moreover, it was the basic promise of the President of Ukraine. This is also written with us in the first coalition agreement in 2014. About the fact that in three years, the Supreme Council has failed to make changes to the existing electoral system that was founded by the baptized father of the Ukrainian oligarch system, Leonid Kuchma, and let's just be honest: without changing the electoral system, any changes make too little sense. I know a lot in this room of decent seniors who are known by people and who work. But let's face it, today the majority system has become the foundation for the destruction of Ukrainian parliamentaryism and the foundation for the construction of an oligarchic system in Ukraine. The oligarchic authorities have made up the majority in this Supreme Council on a number of occasions. Remember, at least 2002, when the ZAEDU prokuchma block actually lost the election, but the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majorists made up of the majority. The way out is by changing the rules of the game, by canceling the majority system, which has turned into a total purchase of voices of people who are driven to despair because of poverty. What should be the electoral system in Ukraine? First, it's a proportional system with open regional lists, where the electorate is able to choose not only the parties, but also the candidate. This system also ends with closed lists when the electorate sees only the first five names and, in fact, does not see any further and chooses the cat in the bag. The other one. We need, in fact, to ban advertising and the use of boards that will allow neoligarchic parties and really people to create a social elevator that wants to come and serve the Ukrainian people. And last of all, I want to address the Ukrainian people: the abolition of parliamentary immunity and the new electoral law will not be a panacea -- it is true, but perhaps it is not the only evolutionary way to update.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u80	Thank you. I have no right. Well, they asked the previous speakers, too. I thank you for the performance. And I ask for Nestor Schufrich's word. I'm asking for Nestor Schufrich's word. Thank you for explaining your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u81	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, I have experience in being elected to the Majority District and I have experience in choosing party lists. I'll be honest with you, more responsibility when you or you're in charge of the party. I've seen many times my colleagues -- I don't want to offend anyone -- the closer they get to elections, the more they move to other factions. We have recorders that changed seven factions on one occasion. And that, of course, is also a question of corruption. But, first of all, it's a question of the political responsibility of the political power and its leaders, who today, in voting for a proportional system of elections, take responsibility for actions in opposition, or, if lucky, and in our country, it's not always happiness, to be in power. I think there's now a historic opportunity to go back to the practice that once took place in the 2006 elections, and then, really, you can see who's responsible for it. And many paid for it, saying one thing and doing another. I now urge my colleagues not to make such a farce as this has happened with the removal of the inviolability. I voted a lot for her, and today for the first time in practice, I voted twice for one question! How many times can the touch be taken, and how many times a day?Oh, my God! I now urge you to be honest in this matter and to vote on the List Act not only in the first reading, because it is a lie, but in general as a law, if you are not afraid of people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u82	Thank you. Please, Leonid Yemen. Leonid Jemetz.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u83	Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens now. Very often you ask why the members of the Supreme Council are not disciplined, why there are empty chairs and empty halls here on Friday, as long as this continues. The answer is very simple, electoral legislation today is the embodiment of the worst practice in the world. On the one hand, it's a majority system, on the other hand, it's closed electoral lists. When we approach colleagues who come here very rarely, they say, "Get away from us with your demands. We've already counted with the voters in the electoral process: we've set up benches, we've distributed Greek, we've brought five million into the party register, we don't have to do anything here anymore." Look, we have characters here who have been in this room for 20 years just to take an oath and vote for the Attorney General. They're chosen once and for all in their districts because they fed the minority that gives them the votes, the stupid minority that sells their votes. Most who are not so disciplined are constantly at risk for 20 years without having a representative in the Ukrainian Parliament. We say it can't go on like this. We say there should be the Law on Open Voters of the List, where there will be a correlation, where there will be mutual responsibility between the MP and the electorate, where the position of the electorate will determine who is to be the winner of the party list, who is to lead the party list and represent the people who trusted to be their representatives in the single legislative body. Actually, it's all rhetoric, because all of these things we've already promised by going to the elections. All political parties here have promised open electoral lists. Again, we face the question of whether we are ready to fulfill our commitments and promises. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u84	Thank you, Your Honor. I understand, third, third you support. 1068. Thank you. Please, this is Oleg Barn speaking from Peter Dustenk's Block. Mr. Barna!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u85	Praise Jesus Christ! Cynicism, populism, and wickedness harm Ukraine and the people more than war itself, and the same corruption, because it all begins with that. The Ukrainian people, who gained independence in the 1990s, who defeated the criminal regime of Yanukovich and now defends Ukraine and independence in the East, are the source of power and the people themselves must choose their power. In addition, we observe that certain oligarchic clans and criminal misdemeanors are seeking to counter the will of the Ukrainian people themselves, reiterating the lie and manipulation of the party’s election system through their graves, investing billions in party projects that have been stolen from the people. It is these criminalities who want to form lists of voters and prospective candidates at their cynic gatherings. It was for money, just like the money was used for the lists and for these elections. Later, they will have full control of the MP’s activities. And the MP's belief will no longer make any sense, because then the MPs will be sold with all the spear, the whole faction on the money bags that the party owns. And that's why, an example of the faction self-help behind dictatorship. She set Gopko free from her faction, which she came up with. And second moment. The same way that some who do not meet the party list came to the Supreme Council from WFP, and they do not want a mandate. The party election system is an example of party corruption and political prostitution. The people themselves must choose authority by direct vote and election. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u86	Thank you. Please, from Rebirth Party, from Rebirth Group, People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! It's a shame we're meeting today just to talk about the Elections Act. Regrettably, no bill unites this room in order to adopt a new, new electoral law and adopt a new system. But I want to ask, why did we decide that today's Law on the Election of People's Deputies is the most important thing? Because we've all talked to you about the need to change the electoral law on national MPs, but it's electoral legislation in general. We promised you and I would unify all electoral legislation. And that's why we need to talk about the Electoral Code. It's a shame you and I started with one law. Hoch reminds us that the calendar of the election is our first election, the President's election. Why is everyone silent about this today? The other one. Elections of local self - government bodies Show me who can raise his hand here, that the last election is a model of electoral legislation. Who can say that the system now in operation by local governments works? We are the only ones who have drafted the Electoral Code, brought it in, and it is a pity that today the session hall has begun to consider this issue with laws none of which can be adopted. And today it's the responsibility of the entire session room that we've put aside the most important questions, and here everyone has decided to talk about how everyone doesn't like the cheerleader. And even when the majors here are talking about what corruption is, but none of you are ready to go into the normal work of electoral law. So we put the Electoral Code, we discuss it, we talk about the positions of every political force, and we adopt the only electoral legislation for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u88	Thank you. Colleagues, closing statement from factions. From the "Fatherland" faction, member of the working group Ivan Krulko. Please don't drag your time. Ivan, I'll give you time. Colleagues, there's gonna be a vote in five or seven minutes. I'm talking. Give me five minutes from the deputies. I'm addressing all the factions' heads so you can invite MPs into the hall. And I want to stress, we can't work any longer than 18:15. So please don't tear us down so we can vote at least 6:05. That's why I'm asking all the factions to invite MPs into the hall. Now Ivan Krulko. And I'm going to ask you as concisely as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u89	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Ukrainians, today is really a crucial day, and you can see very clearly what parties that have promised to vote in favour of abolishing the major corruption component and the proportional system that they will now do as they consider these bills. "Paternality" understands very well that the task of power is to leave the "law of Yanukovich", a law that is corrupt, a law that allows for the manipulation of the majority, a law that allows for everything that is in the election. So we think we need to change the law urgently, and the time has come. So we're going to be like a faction voting for all the laws that take down the majority component and those laws that introduce a proportional electoral component that we can actually choose the deputies who will serve their people, not the money the oligarchs paid for them. And of course, right now we must unite in this sessional room in order for at least one of the bills to be based on and allow the working group to prepare it for the second reading. And most of all. Do you know what system we need? We need a system that won't allow this Parliament to have these "political berries" that come here and work for the money of the oligarchs. Because it's this political berry, and everyone here knows it's financed by Ahmedov's money. And it's for Ahmtova's money that he allows himself to be drawn to the leader of "The Fatherland" Julius Timoshenko. But all things will be resolved and the Ukrainian people will be dealt with. And it was because of Ahmtova's money that he was able to declare a million dollars, that he was able to declare an elite mansion that he had never earned, because he didn't do anything except serve those who paid him money in different ways. The people will give this assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u90	Colleagues, I'm asking you to record five minutes from the National Deputies, five minutes from the National Deputies. Please sign up and invite everyone to the hall. I strongly invite all the deputies to the hall. There'll be a vote in five minutes. I ask all the heads of factions to call the deputies, signal everyone to come into the hall. Belkova, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u91	Thank you very much. I'd like to give it to Oksani Jurinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u92	Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u93	Dear Mr. Head, as a majority member of 117 constituency, I will be sure to say that necessary changes are needed, changes in the electoral system in the country. But the dangers that we have seen in the local elections are, unfortunately, dangerous. electoral legislation, it's dangerous again today. So if one area, for example our Lvivska, gets one party and all the winners are 12 people, that means that if the party doesn't pass 3 percent, they won't represent the regional, in general in the Ukrainian Parliament this part of Ukraine. And this is a very serious danger that the new electoral legislation needs to be accurately avoided so that those who are leaders and who can represent are represented in the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u94	Thank you. Please, Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, I don't think there's any doubt that we need to change electoral legislation. But I would support the position that we need the Electoral Codex to harmonize the entire electoral system. In 26 years of independence, I would like to remind you that in Ukraine there were both a proportional system and 100 percent a major system, and a mixed system, and in fact the last local elections we held with you on so-called open lists that completely distorted the system and the will of people. So you don't have to speculate. And another line. I would like to point out that on the direct proportional lists of corruption much more than the places that were sold on the lists of very many political parties. So the majority system needs to be improved. But let's ask people what election system they want in Ukraine today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u96	Thank you. Popov Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u97	Please pass the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u98	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u99	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Why do we need to change the electoral system? To overcome corruption. What will help to overcome corruption? Increase in the income and well - being of Ukrainians. When there will be no such government as Prashenko, Timoshenko, Lazarenko, that means that Ukrainians will have jobs, wages, a decent life, a high pension and a high salary. This means that the Ukrainians will no longer be robbed, they will not use Ukraine to raise funds on the offshore. I'm going to Prashenko, Timoshenko, Lazarenko, you want the good news to the Ukrainians, you want to have the job and pay in Ukraine for the Ukrainians, you want to return billions of dollars to Ukraine, give the Ukrainians what they've been robbing for 20 years. Porridge, Timoshenko, Lazarenko, return the money stolen from the Ukrainians!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u100	Zubkoj Lubomir Lvović.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u101	Mr. Sidorovich, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u102	Please, Mr. Sidorovich, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u103	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. I would now like to address representatives of all five factions who signed a coalition agreement at the end of 2014, let us open a coalition agreement and read what we all promised the Ukrainian people and Ukrainian citizens. A change in the political system and the introduction of a proportional electoral system with open lists. Even a child realizes that today's majority system is a system that gives rise to Greeks and does not provide for citizens' interests. Moreover, note that, in fact, the majority who support the interests of citizens are the biggest supporters of the introduction of an open proportional system of elections to parliament. I'd like all of you to support Bill 1068-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u104	Thank you. And, the closing statement by Jurintz, gives Krivenk Victor a word, and in a minute, we move on to the decision-making process. I invite everyone into the hall and take up jobs. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u105	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Society, the previous speaker rightly said that we all made promises when we went to Parliament, signed before the election programs, and signed a coalition agreement. We certainly need to move on to a new system of elections, and we can see that there are interested parties who have a history that has a certain reputation. And it's not the air projects that are interested that arise under the same election and then disappear. Those majors, who have already changed many different political powers, are majors, who are truly prominent people, who will be the first to be followed by political forces to go to the polls and look for prominent, honest people with a rating in the local elections. So I would urge the Mayors not to be afraid of this new system, for decent, quality people to take turns, for Greeks, they will be a little more difficult. So please support, and we will support both the second and the law of Mr. Chumak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-19-m1.u106	Thank you. Colleagues, the discussion is over, we're going to vote. So, colleagues, now the vote is going to take place this way: I'm going to put each of these bills on the ground, if one of them goes through it and it's a base, if none of them gets the required number of votes, I'm going to suggest one of them get the most votes, send it to the committee as the only one united to work out. I'm asking everyone to get ready and I'll say it anyway. I'm telling you under the Rules, I have three options, authors. I can write to the authors. Please prepare for the vote: first, three votes on the basis. Then the one who has acquired the most will be invited to refer either to the committee or to the authors for work as a unionist. Don't you agree, colleagues? Is it accepted? Let's move on to decision-making, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to concentrate. Once again, I think the bill of 1068-2 is the closest to the open list system. And I'm voting first on the draft Law on the Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies, 1068 by Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich. Anyone who supports it, please vote. We're voting 1068. Miroshenko Yuri. Vote! [[18:04:13]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Second, 1068-1, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna. Please support 1068-1. Please vote. On the basis of that, please vote. [[18:04:45]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. I now base 1068-2 (a group of Yemeni deputies, Chumak). Please vote, please support the base. Please vote, please support. On the ground now. Now for the basis. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[18:05:11]] For 169 [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll do it again. Colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I can see it! I can see it! I'm offering to go back to 1068-2. Please vote, please support. To be considered as a basis. To be considered as a basis. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[18:05:46]] For-174 So Bill 1068-2 gained the largest number of votes, colleagues. I ask the whole room to unite and now vote on the next proposal that we have in the Rules: either return the subject to the legislative initiative or send it to the committee. The committee. Colleagues, I'm betting on the offer. Attention! I'm making these proposals that I have under the Rules. I'm going to set up a committee, and I'm going to set up a legislative initiative. Colleagues, I'd like to make my first suggestion: 1068-2 to send to the committee for processing. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[18:06:46]] For 169 170. And, colleagues, attention, please come into the hall. We must now make a positive decision. I will now make an offer to return the legislative initiative to the subject as the only harmonized bill among the three. I'm asking you to support everyone. Do you support me? B.P.P.? I'm asking you to back me up. We made a deal, guys. We agreed. I'm asking everyone to take a seat. Colleagues, please support everyone. I'm asking you to support everyone, colleagues. Please take your jobs and support everyone. I'm putting 1068-2 to the vote for the drafting of the legislative initiative. Please support, everyone has promised me. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues, let's make a positive decision. We're voting 1068 on the drafting of the legislative initiative. Please be supportive. [[18:07:52]] For 181 Let me show you through the factions. Peter Dustenka's Block, 66, People's. I'll do it again. Attention, I'll put it again. Stay where you are, colleagues. I propose a return, an offer to return to the proposal of the legislators. Please vote, please support. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, this is supposed to be. [[18:08:34]] For 177 So, colleagues, I want to let you know, we've been through the first stage of electoral reform. [[B in m in s a l in]] Attention! We've got the next one on the table. Attention! There are two electoral codes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thus, two codes under the authorship of Paris and under the authorship of Pisarenko. And we're going to continue the electoral reform next plenary week. [[B in m in s a l in]] The two codes that are the author of the respected and beloved Paribius Andrija Volodymyrovich and Pisarenko. We continue to work on electoral reform. We're going hard, but we're still working. We've been looking at the courthouse for three weeks, and we're going to be looking at the election in the same way until the end of all the laws of the electoral system and the electoral reform, my colleague. We had a tough day, but today we made fundamental decisions: medical reform, inviolability. I want to thank all the deputies for their endurance, for their understanding, for their solidarity and constructive position. Thank you all, colleagues. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm waiting for everyone in the hall to resume our work. At this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed.
