ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Colleagues, can we register? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please prepare for registration and please register. Please enable the login system. [[10:06:01]] 357 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, yesterday I, like you, have learned with deep sorrow about the death of the People's Deputy of the Eighth Call, the People's Front faction, Peter Mikhailovich Vanata. On behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I express my sincere sympathy to the family, close friends, and fraternal associates. Peter Mikhailovich will always be remembered by all who knew him as a devoted patriot, as a man of high principles and words. Peter Mikhailovich worked tirelessly in industry and energy all his life. He worked loyally for Ukraine as a well - known citizen who loves his Fatherland. His outstanding public activity, tirelessness, and hard work in the name of Ukraine will be an example for all of us. Everlasting memory. Dear colleagues, I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of Peter Mikhailovich. Please. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Everlasting memory. Dear colleagues, this is also the birthday of our colleague Sergio Olegovich Aleksiev. Welcome to our friend's birthday party. [[Applause]] So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. I want to remind you that we can consider draft regulations on parliamentary hearings, we can look at laws in a second reading. But at the same time today, there have been plans concerning legal policy, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code. These issues are important, they need an immediate solution, and I'm going to suggest that they be placed in the agenda for decision-making. If there is room will, we will consider these questions. But the key blocks for today are a block of local self-government issues that are extremely important. We've had very long-term political consultations, and I hope we'll make a positive decision today. And the issue of agrarian politics is also in the second reading, and I also hope for a positive solution. In order to go through the entire agenda, it will be important for us to work actively, effectively, without conflict. And I invite all my colleagues to work actively. And announcing the transition, announcing the transition to the first question. This is a draft resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "State guarantees of social protection for participants in the ATO, the Dignity Revolution and members of their families: status and prospects." And I'm asking you, colleagues, to support the proposal to deal with this issue with a reduced procedure. Please prepare for the vote, take up jobs, and I will now put this proposal to the vote. Ready? So I'm voting on the proposal for a draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "State guarantees of social protection for ATO participants, the Dignity Revolution and their family members: status and prospects", a review of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support, colleagues, vote, please support. [[10:10:56]] For-170. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the committee on matters, the representative of the Committee on Veterans, the participants in the hostilities of Maxim Burbak. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, on October 19, 2016, Parliamentary hearings were held in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the theme "State guarantees of social protection for ATO participants, the Dignity Revolution and members of their families: status and prospects." More than 500 attended the hearings, there was a full room, and most of these participants were participants in the antiterrorist operation and the Dignity Revolution, and members of the families of the fallen heroes. The participants discussed the most pressing questions. In particular, about the low level and the formation, about the state guarantees they are entitled to, about the problems of the practical realization of their rights, about rehabilitation, particularly psychological, about professional adaptation and employment, about free medical care, about housing and land-uses, about the extended passage. The participants in the hearings are unanimous in the need to create a state body, a social security coordinator and other state guarantees, and the Ministry of Veterans of Ukraine. All the suggestions, the comments made at the parliamentary hearings, are dealt with and included as much as possible in the draft hearing recommendations. The draft hearing recommendations are also in line with the public, the committee's decision is unanimous, and the draft regulation 5712 is adopted as a whole. People's deputies would like to support the committee's decision. And by the way, people's deputies, we're talking about social security issues and the benefits of our ATO participants. And I would ask for more attention to do so, not to go to the hall and vote for it by the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u3	Thank you, colleagues. Please record: two for, two for, please. Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u4	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Of course, our faction unanimously supports a decree aimed at supporting safeguards for heroes who protect the country in the East, the hero of the Celestial 100 that changed our country. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to a few of the most important points: first, we talk a lot about social guarantees, including the allocation of war participants, nationalally free in the east to land areas, and in places they speculate. So I appeal to the government to take under strict control the allocation of land allocations to participants in the national liberation war in the east. And one more thing. We Ukrainian parliamentarians, plus I spoke to the fightrs of the Kiev regiment this morning, which protects the country in Audivka, require colleagues, honourable colleagues from the "Peter Poroshenko Block" faction, to clarify that diplomatic diversion that was made by the National MP Alexei Honcharenko yesterday under the embassy of Germany. To evaluate and question the withdrawal of Hotcharyenko from PARJE, because this "Cremlov can", which has been violated by the Ukrainian Security Service for Separatism, undermines the country's national security. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u5	Kishkar Pavlov Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I will begin by thanking the chairman of the relevant Committee of Trelyakow for taking care of the real problems of the people who protect us in the East and have the right status. But I would very much like the debate that will take place at the parliamentary hearings to write about the reality of the social guarantees that the state offers. Because we usually guarantee a lot and write a lot, and we do very, very little. So we ask that all the wishes that we, including those that we send to the committee, be taken into account, and the guarantees that the State guarantees are guaranteed. Because the transfer of the said land right from empty to empty does not provide participants with any preferences, including land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, Oksana Korchinska, one minute. Colleagues, there are no more willing to speak. We'll be across in two minutes. It will, Melniczuk, Igor Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u8	Praise Jesus Christ! The decision is vital and important. But our fighters and our veterans, unfortunately, have little to do with listening to help. We had a reward yesterday for our outstanding fighters on the 72nd Brigade. Unfortunately, the President's prizes were not paid to military medicine, but not to volunteer medicine. Now they need to be given. And our initiative with the MPs: we must reward the eminent medics of the front, we must reward them alive. She died last week, taking the wounded, our colleague, Natalka Horuža. Her only feat, which had now been rewarded, but had previously been removed from the arc of the Light during the month of the wounded, did not await the reward of life. I'm asking you very much, let's teach the authorities and the President to reward our living medics, our military medics, our volunteers, our evacuations.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u9	From Fatherland, Igor Lucenko, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, of course, the Fatherland faction will vote in favour of the draft decree. But the next thing you have to say is that in this document, in those documents that are being submitted to this decision, we don't see any particulars. Very much was promised to the participants of the so-called anti-terror operation, promised, for example, land, no bill here mentioned, how the right to land, which, by the way, is very much concerned, can be implemented. And now we all know that the enormous difficulty in getting what is promised from the state is actually these land plots. The constant manipulations in Kiev on this issue are trying to steal the plotters of the land, this needs to be settled, this needs to be guaranteed, so does the education issue, and so does other social benefits. But it's not even about social benefits. Let's call wars independent, not part of an anti-terror operation. Let's guarantee honest investigation to the families of the Celestial 100.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u11	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u12	And the report of the Attorney General, who is currently conducting this investigation. That's what they care about, of course, they didn't marry social guarantees, they're obviously fighting for our independence, not for social guarantees. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u13	Thank you. Please, Sergey Melniczuk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u14	Good afternoon, fellow citizens of Ukraine! Sergey Melniczuk. I want to read one and one of the texts that one of the fighters sent me. "Sergey Petrovich, please help me. I don't have a place to live right now. When I was in boarding school, I had a state that took my place, one hope for you. With respect, Martishevich Mikola." This is one of the fighters, of those 400 fighters who went to the front, who fought in the battalion, and now, after some of the political motives had been disbanded, they were put in search. Like Igor Lapin and many others. Thus, the issue with these fighters must be settled, for the Committee of Trees refuses to assign a participant to those who fought in the East, arguing with political motives. There is no political motive in the war, there is an aggressor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u15	Finished or added? Thank you. From the People's Front, Michael Bondar, one minute. And let's move on to making a decision. Mr. Michael, one second. Please invite everyone to the hall. In a minute, we'll move on to the decision-making process. Now turn on the microphone, Michael Bondar, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u16	Thank you, Mikhailo Bondar, 119 constituency. The People's Front will definitely vote in favour of this motion to hold parliamentary hearings. And I'll say that, literally yesterday at 2 p.m., we've already met fighters who came here -- the cyborgs -- who offered their proposals, they've given draft laws that they see what needs to be done. Andry Volodymyrovich, thank you for this meeting you've organized. Thank you to all your colleagues, the ministers who joined that meeting. So I say that the work is already done, the meetings are being held, and there is work to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u17	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to take up their jobs, prepare for the vote. Please, colleagues. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "State guarantees of social protection for ATO participants, the Dignity Revolution and their family members: status and prospects" (No. 5712). At the invitation of the committee, I would like to put the proposal to vote on the basis of the proposal as a whole. Colleagues, I'd like you to support this as a whole 5712. Please vote. Vote. We'll support the ATOs. [[10:23:21]] For 239. It's been decided. The factions, please. "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 102, "National Front" – 60, "Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 18, "Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka" – 14, "Fathership" – 18, "Will of the People" – 4, "Rebirth Party" – 5. Colleagues, let's move on to the next question, it doesn't need to be placed in the agenda of a day session, it's a personnel issue. This is a draft Decision on the appointment of a candidate to a competition commission for members of the National Anti-Corruption Agency (No. 5418). And I also propose to vote on the issue in short notice, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. 5418. Short-term procedure. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[10:24:24]] For 168 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Vice-President of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of the Corruption of Chumak Viktor Vasilovich. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u18	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption was appointed by one candidate, Mr. Marceljak, who is professor of the Faculty of Constitutional Law of the National University of Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk. Please support this candidature.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two in favour, two in favour. Please, Prince Ruslan Petrovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u20	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor. Frankly, it's very good that we continue the practice of proposing, on behalf of the Supreme Council, to a competitive commission for the selection of NAZK candidates, specifically scientists. And after Mr. Suschenka, who for some reason has refused to remain on board this committee, the committee is now proposing the nomination of Oleg Marceljak, a well-known lawyer, a lawyer, a doctor of law. A man works at the University of Shevchenka. He is a serious expert on anti-corruption law and, among other things, he is the head of the Anti-Corruption Committee of the Association of Ukrainian Lawyers. And frankly, I think that the better choice at the moment was probably hard to come up with. I welcome this kind of approach to the committee, and I think, in view of any kind of approach to nomination committees, it's really worth proposing, not politicians, but professionals who are able to make decisions objectively and impartially, taking into account the professional level of people in the first place. So on behalf of our faction, I urge you to unanimously support this prosecutor's office and unlock the way for the competition commission to elect another member of the National Anti-Corruption Agency, who, unfortunately, in the absence of one of the members, is unable to effectively pursue their policies right now. You see those public scandals that arise, you see those unpleasant conflicts between the different levels of officials that have already become extremely public and obvious, in order to remove them and to translate this professional plane, you immediately need your debt, which Parliament owed from the point of view of the candidate to the competition commission, to immediately execute and allow the competition commission to continue its work. And then you can't put this in a long box because you know we're in the second wave phase of the declaration. And that number of people who are going to serve, and think about it, it's about two.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u21	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u22	So I ask you unanimously, regardless of the political colour, to vote in favour of this decision, because it is out of politics and highly professionally motivated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u23	From the Radical Party Popov Igor Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, the Radical Party is urging you to step up the work of the National Anti-Corruption Agency. It's been almost a year since we formed the National Agency. During this time, more than 100,000 Ukrainian officials submitted their electronic declarations a few months ago. Ukrainian citizens demand that the agency arrange for the verification of these declarations. Unfortunately, until now NAZC has not even been able to establish the order of verification of electronic declarations. Why would they be served? What is more, the wave has just begun, the second wave of the 16 - year declaration. They can be served by 2 million people. Is NAZK capable of digesting all this volume, or is it capable of organizing technical work? Unfortunately, there are many questions. Moreover, in recent times we have seen the biased attitude of the National Anti-Corruption Agency towards individual politicians, above all opposition politicians, when, instead of checking the declarations of those accused of corruption, those appointed to the highest positions are increasingly seeing politicization in the work of NAMC. To date, the NAMC of four members has been formed, and the fifth is to be elected by a competition commission. But the competition commission cannot work properly without an authorized representative from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We've been asking this question for a long time, we need to have a competitive commission today to elect a fifth member of NAZK, and to have NAZK carry out all the powers they've been entrusted with, and to have NAZK pay off the high wages that the state pays them from the taxpayers. In order for NAZC to be celebrated, not by the high prizes they set themselves, but by the concrete results of the verification of electronic declarations, the verification of the report of political parties, the prevention of corruption, the prevention of conflict of interest. This is their main task, our job is to help them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u25	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. That's why I'm asking all the deputies. Who? All right, I'll give it to Melnichuku. But I still ask all the deputies to come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council would like to invite the deputies to the Hall. Please, from Self-Help, Lavrick Oleg Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u26	Please give the word to Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u27	Self-help won't support this. I voted against our committee against corruption. In general, I think that the competition to elect members of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption was a farce, and the ideas of the open procedure were falsified. We still have the consequences of doing so today. The Anti-Corruption Agency, which we gave good funding, good authority, has yet to verify any declaration, no declaration from any of those submitted in September-June last year. The unwillingness to work as members of this agency is a direct result of a fabricated, falsified, open competition. A bill has been drafted that changes the order of selection, including the election committee for the agency, and we need to clean everything up there.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u28	Final speech, Ivan Melniczuk. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Please, colleagues, there'll be a vote in a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ah, you are, aren't you? I'm sorry, Fatherland hasn't spoken yet. Who's it gonna be? Ivan Melniczuk, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, I urge you to support Mr. Marcelak's candidature as a professional person, as a person who meets all the criteria and for whom the Committee voted overwhelmingly in favour of anti-corruption. And what the previous speaker said, I'll tell you, the previous speaker has long since turned the committee into a playground for his own pyar. And if his personal friends don't go to any committees, he lets himself speak like that in the Supreme Council Hall. This is not a friend, you can see, Mr. Sobolev and this is not a friend, you can see, of those people who are not going to vote for this right now. I don't think it's necessary to give a word, because we have two names for them, so two should speak. I'm just once again calling on the head of the Anti-Corruption Committee not to turn the committee into a political pianist site, as he once told me that, Ivan Ivanovich, we have different political tasks, and so I'm going to run the committee the way I want.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u30	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u31	The committee, in the opinion of many members of the committee, has to consider bills that are consistent with corruption or other activities, not to set up their own piano show in front of journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u32	Thank you. Mr. John, but, you know, when that last name is mentioned, I have to give it to you in accordance with the Rules. Please, one minute, Egor Sobolev. Then Igor Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u33	First. In this case, I represent the position of the Self-Help faction. The other one. The anti-corruption committee has never been and will never be a playground, as you said, for a political pianist. It was and is a place for the development of revolutionary anti-corruption legislation, including declarations. And I am grateful to all the members of the committee, including the Peter Dusty Block, who participated in this. And the third. I'm asking the members of the Peter Dusty Block to return to the committee meetings. I don't think you should take an example from the Opposition Block that's long since stopped walking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u34	And a closing statement from Fatherland, Igor Lucenko. Let's move on to the decision after that. Let's go into the hall, invite the deputies into the hall. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction will refrain from supporting this candidature for the following reasons. Well, it's obvious to everyone that the NAZC idea has turned into its complete opposite. The National Anti-Corruption Agency has become such a political stick to just beat up the competitors of today’s authorities. Instead of analyzing declarations in an automatic transparent way, there are incomprehensible movements, just discrediting those who don't like Banking doesn't like it in Gruszewski. And unfortunately, the whole story with the National Anti-Corruption Agency is no longer a prevention of corruption, but a promotion for today. Both legislatively and personally this body has turned into such a, you know, agency for discrediting disagreeable politicians. So, of course, we're not going to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u36	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u37	We think we need to go back to the legislative review of the framework for the functioning of this institution and, of course, to the review of the personnel who lead this agency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u38	Thank you. Colleagues, discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. I would like to remind you that it is the responsibility of the Supreme Council to ask these questions, to determine them. This is a representative from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I am convinced that the Supreme Council must make its decision on this matter. Please take up jobs, let's move on to decision-making. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on a draft regulation on the appointment of a candidate to a competition commission for members of the National Anti-Corruption Agency (No. 5418) as a whole. In general, colleagues. Please vote, please support 5418 as a whole. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[10:37:16]] For 210 Fellows, if you'd like to come to the hall, I'll put it back once, please. Invite the deputies to the hall. This is a decision, you don't have to come back here, I'll put it to the vote again, not all the deputies are in the room. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, can we get to the vote? And I'm voting on a draft regulation on the appointment of a candidate to a competition commission for members of the National Anti-Corruption Agency (No. 5418) as a whole. Please vote, please support. [[10:38:54]] For 217 I'll put it to the vote again. I understand not all of them are, if they don't. I'll wait 30 seconds, I see. Please, Victor Chumak for one minute, advise us on what to do in this situation. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, you and I are not choosing a member of the NAZK today, we are choosing a member of the commission to elect a member of the NAZK. To date, the commission’s action or the commission’s activity has been completely blocked, since in principle it is not possible to make an additional choice without the other member’s choice. You and I see that there are enough problems in NAZC today with making decisions, because the professional composition of NAZK unfortunately wants to respond better. And, let's say, their not only professional, human qualities also want to be better. But what I would like to say is that this person, who was represented on the committee, in principle, enjoys a sufficiently serious respect in the legal environment, for whom the former Head of the Constitutional Court, Peter Bogdanovich Steczuk, was very good in response, a more faithful member of the Constitutional Court. He received very good feedback from other lawyers who thought he was a decent, normal person and, above all, a legal profession. So I think we need to vote in order to unlock.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u40	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u41	I think we should vote, support this candidature and unlock the commission's work on the election of NAMK members.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u42	Thank you. Let's listen to the committee representative, I'll put that vote again. Please, I'm Oleg Lazko po.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u43	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. As our trusted friend and colleague Igor Popov faithfully pointed out, today the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption is actually transformed into an organ of the political Inquisition when taken and persecuted in an equal place. For example, I'm being presented with a claim that I was running a television program on NewsOne, and I said it was corruption. Although the law clearly provides for the ability of national deputies to engage in creative activities. Trump also ran the show in America and became president, and you're not letting Laska run the show on TV because you're afraid we're going to win. But you won't stop us. And as for the candidate you're submitting, he's a candidate for power. If we want a real fight against corruption, it must be an impartial body, not a splinter of power and political orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, I remind you once again: we are choosing a candidate for a competitive commission for the selection of candidates. It is the quota of the Supreme Council of Ukraine where the Supreme Council can either implement its will or be unable to implement its will. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, I'm asking everyone to prepare for the vote. He's asking a representative of the Chumak Committee to ask me this question again. I'll do it again. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote, colleagues, please. I remind you, I shouldn't go back, it's a staff decision, I can put it to the vote again. And I'm putting in a draft regulation on the selection of candidates for the National Anti-Corruption Agency (No.5418) as a whole. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote! Please be supportive. [[10:44:08]] For 226 Decision taken, decision taken. Colleagues, I'd like to make a request right now. Colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking you to turn around. Colleagues, we didn't confirm the schedule on Tuesday. Thus, we cannot put the day’s issue of first reading in order without a special decision of the Supreme Council. But today we were planning questions that we were not able to reach the last time. This is the question of the Constitutional Court, this is the question of amending the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, where it is the author of Oxana Siroid. Colleagues, now I'm going to propose that you include them in the agenda for decision-making and I'm asking for your attention. These questions have long been unannounced, and these questions have long been prepared by the committee. There's a general agreement of factions on those issues, but we have to vote on them now for the agenda of the day session, to make decisions so that we can look at them. Colleagues, please don't come out of the hall, it's four votes, it'll be quick. I very much ask you not to leave the hall. And I put them in turn, the ones that were in order of the day, but we have to vote on them. So first of all, the Ukrainian Cultural Fund Bill (5491) I'm asking you to put in the agenda for decision-making, and I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. Please vote for the Ukrainian Cultural Fund for inclusion in the agenda for decision-making, voting, colleagues. Please vote. [[10:45:54]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Next, colleagues, draft law. Once again, we haven't figured it out. So once again, I'm putting the Ukrainian Cultural Fund Bill (5491) into the agenda for the decision-making session so that we can look at it today. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:46:38]] For 221 Next, colleagues, draft Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine (5336 and 5336-1). I ask you, colleagues, to support the Constitutional Court, I ask you to concentrate. I have a request from those who call me, just as a few deputies were leaving the hall during the vote. You just have to stand by the door, keep them out of the hall, colleagues. I'll put it in, then I'll put it in. You just call the MPs in the hall, and it'll be the right thing to do. Thus, the draft Law on the Constitutional Court (5336, 5336-1). It was annotated, it was prepared by both the committees and all the factions. And I'm asking you to put it in the order of the day session for decision-making, colleague. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. [[10:47:48]] For 219 219, colleagues. I'll put it again, colleagues, I'll put it again. This is one of the most important bills that we've drawn, which I've been told is the agreement of all factions, colleagues. I ask you to concentrate, I'll put it to the vote again. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I said a few votes. Please. I am voting on the proposal to put the draft Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine (5336 and 5336-1) into the agenda of the day session. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. [[10:48:53]] For 231 Decision taken. Colleagues, next: Draft Law on Amendments to the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine (to deal with matters involving the jury) (5271). The legal unit is also supported by all factions and committees. Please vote in favour of the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Please vote, please support. 5271, please. [[10:49:30.]] For 248 Decision taken. Colleagues, next, 5610. The Conciliation Council insisted. Draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code (to improve enforcement mechanisms). Colleagues, a bill that deals with absentee justice, which should allow the prosecution to start the trial of Yanukovic and his regime. I'm asking everyone to focus. At the invitation of the committee, he is asked to be included in the agenda of the day’s session to make a decision. Colleagues, please concentrate. So I am voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine (for the improvement of criminal enforcement mechanisms) (No. 5610) to include in the agenda for decision-making. Please vote. Please be supportive. We'll go back to the cultural fund. Please support me. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:50:57]] For-195 Guys, I'll put it back on. Please invite the deputies to the hall. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall and take jobs. After that, I will re-establish a cultural foundation, colleagues, as promised. We don't have a regulation, I can ask these questions a few times. I'm going to set up a cultural fund, but now I'm going to put 5610 again. So I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (to improve the mechanisms for ensuring criminal conduct) (5610). With regard to absentee justice, the law that will allow the trial of the Yanukovich regime to begin is included in the agenda of the day’s session for decision-making. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please vote. [[10:52:19]] For 207 No votes. My colleagues, as promised, once again the cultural fund, were not all oriented. Come on, Oleg, I'll do it again. Colleagues. Let's put it to a vote, Oleg. You vote, if there's an offer, fine. One minute, please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u45	Dear Mr. Golovo, your honorary colleagues, our faction will support the inclusion of the daily Bill 5491 on the Ukrainian Cultural Fund, provided that we simultaneously include the daily Bill 3597 on the State Fund for Humanitarian Development. It's similar, it's actually one-of-a-kind bills, but the bill on the State Fund for Human Development was registered a year ago and it answers all the questions raised in the Ukrainian Cultural Fund Bill. We're proposing these two bills: 5491 and 3597 put into the agenda and look at which of them will support the hall, this will be fair and fair. For which Ukrainians fight, for honesty and justice, not for fraud and fraud, even in culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u46	Oleg Valeriyovich, I don't have this bill right now so I can offer it, I don't know the state of its passage, colleagues. This is what the Apparatus has prepared, the bill that is ready. I'm going to put this proposal back into the agenda for the decision-making session. So I'm voting on the proposal to include the draft Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act (5491), the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[10:54:38]] For 221 So, colleagues. Colleagues, there are only two of the four bills that we have put into the order of the day session for decision-making. But these are actually the bills that apply to the legal block. And I suggest, as we planned, as planned, that we pass the legal block now. And I'm looking at the draft Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, 5336, 5336-1. And please support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote and please support. Review of the simplified procedure. [[10:56:01]] For-188. I'm being noted, but the decision has already been made, Mr. Odarchenko. That's what the room decides, sorry. I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Odarchenka Yuri Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the Head of the Supreme Council is now in grave violation of Ukrainian legislation, the Rules. Because according to the Rules, if there are more than a hundred articles in the law, it is considered in full procedure. This is the Constitutional Court Act. And, Andriy Volodymyrovich, this is a very bad example when you're such an important law that's in the way of constitutional reform, you want to go about breaking legislation. The disgrace of Paris is that it systematically violates legislation. It is a disgrace, a witness of his nonprofessionalism and a prejudiced approach. Be sure to proceed with the full procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] In the law. For Andrey, I use the word “medicine, ” and if there are more than 100 articles in the law, it is clearly considered in full procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u48	Colleagues, I've made it clear with our lawyers, this is really true when in law over 100 articles, we're looking at the full procedure. Just for that, Mr. Odarchenko, it's enough to have a professional discussion, because when I'm in the form of a discussion about you and your colleagues, what I have arguments and reasons for on many occasions -- from voting for Georgia, when you were silent, when the occupying forces went to Georgia, and you silently complained that you couldn't vote; when you and Putin were holding. I'm trying not to give emotional grades, I'm having a professional discussion. Lawyers have evaluated me, I'm doing the right thing. So please, there's a note, please make a note. I listened to the lawyers, consulted them, and made a legal decision. There will be emotional evaluations, and on my part there will be assessments of the emotional activities and activities of your colleagues. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] As the cards began to be placed here this morning, I did not announce it from the rostrum when the young deputies, I quietly remained silent, having respect for you. There will be emotional evaluations, and so will my emotional evaluations. Please report in full. Thank you, colleagues. Thank you for your support, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, September 30, 2016, introduced changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, which significantly changed the role of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in the system of justice. If the court had previously existed mainly for disputes between higher authorities and it was almost impossible for a person to get his case under consideration, this court should now take up a position in the judicial system at the level of other courts. It must now become available to people. That is why we have drafted the Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The basis for this law is our view that since the Constitutional Court is now open to the public, the order of the conduct of the case must be regulated no worse than in other courts and courts. Moreover, the new Constitution clearly requires that the process be settled in this court only by law. That is, no rules that the court approves alone can be applied. The law can be divided into three basic blocks. The first block is the structure of the court and the order of its formation. We suggest that we put in place a rigidly regulated competitive selection system. During the several - step competition that will be held in the general examination of candidates, candidates will receive points in writing and oral interviews. The appointment authority can only be selected from among candidates who have placed the first and the second positions. Thus, regardless of the political aspects, only a professional will become a judge, not a friend or godfather. The structure of the court is quite simple. Plenary sessions of 18 judges who decide on constitutional submissions and appeals, as well as in very limited cases, review the decisions of a panel of judges. Large colleges of five judges who deal with constitutional complaints and small colleges of three judges who only deal with procedural issues and open conduct issues. Judges deal solely with procedural matters related to the movement of the case. Each case begins with a court appeal. It is predicted that at least 45 national deputies may refer to the court, the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Supreme Court, the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, refer to the court with constitutional references to the recognition of unconstitutional laws and other legal acts, as well as to the interpretation of the Constitution of Ukraine. At the same time, these highest authorities can also always participate in any constitutional conduct. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine is prohibited from refusing to open up on grounds that are now widely used, as if there were no grounds for consideration or inaccuracies of legal regulation. Such refusals have become a real plague in the work of today’s Constitutional Court, when, instead of answering important constitutional questions, we receive approvals, where the general statement states that the court does not see sufficient grounds to deal with the case. In line with our bill, if there is a submission, there should be a review of this submission, which would require the court to take a decision. Constitutional references are special and very rare documents. They relate to the conclusion of changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, impeachment or formation of issues of the All-U.S. referendum, as well as the verification of compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine or unratified international treaties. A constitutional complaint is a mechanism for human access to constitutional justice. It can only be served after all the mechanisms of protection in the courts of general jurisdiction have been exhausted on the grounds of the unconstitutionality of the court that was applied in the case. It is suggested that this exhaustion was considered to be the case in the case, and if there is no cassation in the conduct, the highest possible court in the case. A college of three judges will only examine the complaint on two important aspects: whether there is a final decision of the highest court and whether the complaint really concerns the unconstitutionality of the law, rather than simply expressing disagreement with the court’s decisions. The accepted constitutional complaints are handled by large colleges of five judges who are determined by the principle of automatic distribution. Another important aspect. Since each case in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has an impact not only on its side but also on all Ukrainian citizens, it has been introduced for over half a thousand years by the West as a mechanism of friends of the court. These are individuals, organizations, scientific institutions that are not parties to the case, but are willing to draw the court's attention to a certain aspect in the case of the possible impact of a decision beyond the scope of the case. Having considered their explanations, the court may, for example, be able to narrow down its decision or even point to arguments that the parties did not make and that mattered to the case. The process itself is clearly defined, and in fact a miniature procedural code has been created. It defines all the stages of consideration, where we have removed any interpretations in as much detail as possible. The decision of the college following a review of the complaint comes into effect only a month later. At this time, the parties may submit an application for a review. For the purpose of the process economy, a review mechanism is used in the United States. The application is addressed to all judges, each of whom may require a vote on it. If any judge requires a vote, the judges shall, within a month, submit their votes to the case. If the majority spoke for a new hearing, the decision of the college would be overturned, and the case would be referred to a plenary session of the court, where the judges of the college were involved. If none of the judges demanded a vote or most did not support a review, the decision of the college would enter into force, thus significantly saving the trial time of the judges. I'm also going to highlight the standards that apply to the basis for the unconstitutionality of laws. It formalizes in which cases the law is determined not to be valid in general, but only in part. There are deadlines for accusing violations of the constitutional procedure for reviewing laws in order to avoid a situation such as the abolition of constitutional reform five years after its adoption on a formal basis, as was the case in the near past. The third element is the disciplinary responsibility of judges. The Constitution provides that the Constitutional Court itself must punish its members. We offered to provide a full mechanism for dealing with disciplinary misconduct by a disciplinary commission formed in a court of law. The most difficult punishment may be to release a judge from office, but only if the judge systematically violates the requirements of law and only by the decision of two thirds of the judges of the Constitutional Court. In this way the judges will not be above the law, but at the same time they will be independent of the entities assigned to them. I also draw attention to the tough terms of reference provided for in the bill, which are subject to penalties, including a reduction in the salaries of all judges. It is not normal when some cases are not dealt with in court for several years, waiting for them to lose their relevance and have to answer difficult questions. Why should an administrative court decide a case within two months, although the questions are often more complex, and the Constitutional Court can afford a few years of inactivity and a decision without answering the question? There should be no more cases like this. I think our bill is more complete than an alternative, because it clearly regulates all aspects of constitutional justice. The alternative project, unfortunately, contains very many gaps, unclear norms and generalizations, does not regulate all aspects of constitutional justice and leaves much room for the creativity of judges. So please support the bill that we have tabled.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u50	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. According to the Rules, we now have time for questions to be asked by the author of the bill, so please sign up for questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u51	Please, Amelchenko, National MP, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u52	I give my word to the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lašek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u53	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for a distinguished reporter. What wages are envisaged for judges of the Constitutional Court in accordance with the draft law that you report? That's the first question. And the second question. What is the intended responsibility of the members of today's Constitutional Court for, among other things, helping Yanukovic to usurp and seize power when today's composition of the court in 2010, in fact, he abolished the Ukrainian Constitution by giving Yanukovic dictatorships, which in total led to the Dignity Revolution, and today to the war in our eastern country and to the annexation of our magical and native Crimea. I want the citizens to hear what you want the judges to do, what oil they have to bathe in, and what responsibility they have for violating.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u54	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u55	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. Half a year ago, changes were adopted to the Constitution, which accepted the need for adoption, including the Constitutional Court Act. The issue of the salaries of judges will be considered further and will be accepted when considering a budget, including participation and representation. With regard to the adoption of the annulment of decisions on procedural matters, our bill regulates the age of the year. That change in the Constitution, introduced by Janukovic, was introduced from procedural issues five years after the adoption of the procedure. Our law sets forth clear terms that do not allow abuse of questions such as a breach of procedure within the time limit set for the prosecution of such decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u56	Thank you. Please, a question from the National Deputy John Krulke of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u57	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. Jury Vitaliyovich, well, I fully agree with you that the question of the Constitutional Court needs to be settled and not only in the context of amending the Constitution, but also in the light of the decisions that the Constitutional Court has taken and which absolutely discredit this body, the only body of constitutional jurisdiction. My question to you concerns the following. We're going to be looking at two bills today, and the next one is going to be an alternative. Can you tell us what are the principles of the differences between these two bills in order for members of the Chamber to be able to finally identify themselves in support of your bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u58	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u59	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Ivan. Well, first of all, our law provides for a more detailed procedure for the selection of judges. We foresee the establishment of commissions in the direction of those subjects who present the judges of the Constitutional Court, that is, by the appointment of the President, he forms his commission, the Supreme Council forms its commission and so forth. We're in this. The alternative bill provides for a single commission to deal with the expulsion of the judges of the Constitutional Court. In our case, we believe that our bill will be more impartial. The possibility of choosing a judge. In addition, our bill foresees the absence of such things as the Supreme Court's operating regulations, because, procedurally, all things are regulated in the body of the law and we think that this is a very useful thing to ensure us from arbitrary interpretations by judges, some kind of judiciality in the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u60	Thank you. Time has run out for your questions. I'm asking you to take your position, Your Honor. And now I invite you to report on Bill 5336-1 of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Alekseyev. Mr. Sergey. [[Noise Nodes]] And now one more, now we have an alternative bill, and then we have an alternative bill. Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u61	Mr. Sergio Alekseyev, Mr. Sergey Alekseyev, we welcome you once again with our birthday and invite you to report on an alternative bill. Let's go to the rostrum. Alexiev gives the word to the national deputy of Germany to speak out of this bill. So the national deputy Leonid Yemen is now presenting Bill 5336-1. Mr. Sergei, once again we welcome you to our birthday. Don't be late for your bill. Please. Ten minutes to report, full-time.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u62	Thank you, colleagues. The President-in-Office, Your Honor, you will be presented with the draft Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act No. 5336-1 of 17.11.2016, which was developed by a group of the best constitutionalist scientists in Ukraine, such as Volkov, Kozubra, Head, Oneschuk, Lemak, Kuybida, and further endorsed by the Council for Judicial Reform. Along with the National Deputies, who are members of the Council for Judicial Reform on the Constitutional Commission, we have registered this bill, which has been defined by the President of Ukraine as urgent. The Venice Commission on December 9 supported the project as a definite step forward in the introduction of European standards in constitutional justice. The project conforms to the new regulation of constitutional legislation that regulates relations in the field of constitutional control. The Constitutional Court is defined as a self-explanatory, unlike the courts, institution is an organ of constitutional jurisdiction. The purpose of its adoption is to regulate, at the legislative level, relations with respect to the order, organization and activities of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the status of judges of the CSC, the grounds and procedures for recourse to the CSC, the procedures for dealing with cases and the implementation of decisions of the CSC, and the effective functioning of the institution of the constitutional complaint. The project envisions a competitive procedure for the selection of candidates for the post of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Each of the three targets is: The President, the Supreme Council and the assembly of judges will form competitive committees in the competitive election of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. A competition commission from the Supreme Council will be composed of at least one representative of the parliamentary faction. Each competition commission will make recommendations on the basis of the results of the examination of candidates and on the basis of interviews, on the basis of which the relevant subjects will decide on the assignment. The number of candidates recommended should be at least three times the number of vacancies for the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Such a system will enable the appointment of new highly professional, independent judges, to improve the existing composition of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The project envisions increased requirements for a person to serve as a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine: an apprenticeship in the field of law – not less than 15 years; high moral qualities. And a candidate should be a lawyer with a high level of competence. The extension of the powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, such as the Constitutional Court, will address constitutional complaints (this new mandate of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine), will conclude on the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine with the questions proposed for the national referendum (this is also the new mandate of the Constitutional Court). At the same time, from the powers of the Constitutional Court, they have been removed from its functions, which is an interpretation of the laws. Laws to interpret court practice. At the same time, the organizational structure of the Constitutional Court has been changed. The court acts as follows: The Great Chamber (all 18 judges), the 2 Senate (by 9 judges in each Senate), and the 6 Colleges (by 3 judges in each college), which have the following powers: The Grand Chamber of the Constitutional Court deals essentially with matters within the limits of the powers of the Constitutional Court as defined by the Constitution; The Senate of the Constitutional Court examines the question of the conformity of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine on the basis of a constitutional complaint by a person; The College of the Constitutional Court is the decision to open constitutional conduct in matters of constitutional application, constitutional appeal, constitutional complaint. Strengthening the independence of KSU judges, both financially and politically. The judges of the KSC will make an oath before the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine has delegated powers concerning the release of judges, that is to say, judges. The appointment and release of judges of the Constitutional Court is divided. The Venice Commission welcomes such safeguards from the political influence of the body. The depoliticization also corresponds to the rule that the Constitutional Court directly approves the consent to detention, detention or arrest of a judge of the Constitutional Court. Adequate consent of the Constitutional Court. It is required that a judge be detained during the direct commission of a serious or particularly serious crime. There is limited reason for the suspension of the terms of office of the Constitutional Court judge and the grounds for his dismissal. From the list of grounds for termination, the grounds for the violation by the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of an oath have been excluded. The mandate of the Constitutional Court judge is automatically terminated when it reaches 70 years of age. A new reason for the release of a Constitutional Court judge is that he commits a significant disciplinary misconduct, gross systematic disregard for his duties, which is incompatible with the status of a Constitutional Court judge, or has been shown to be inconsistent with the position taken. At the legislative level, a condition is created for the realization of the right to a constitutional complaint of a new remedy for the legal protection of the rights of a person who considers that the law of Ukraine in the final judgement in his case is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. The review of constitutional complaints by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine will reduce the flow of complaints by Ukrainian citizens to the European Court of Human Rights and will accordingly reduce the level of compensation paid for its decision from the State budget of Ukraine. Thus, the adoption of this project will create a legislative basis for the effective functioning of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine as an independent and independent State body, on which constitutional control is laid, according to the Constitution of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote on the basis of Law 5336-1. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u63	Mr. Sergio, stay in the rostrum, please. Now, according to the regulations, there is an opportunity to ask the author of the bill. Please sign up for questions, colleagues. Please, Mrs. Olena Sotnik. Mrs. Olena Sotnik, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u64	Thank you very much. First question. Please state on what grounds have you restricted the right of recourse to a constitutional complaint by subjects of public law, such as local authorities, contrary to the Constitution? Because the new constitution clearly establishes such a right, and you limit it in your law, the law contains unconstitutional rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u65	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u66	Yes, really, only natural persons or legal persons who are subject to private law can make a constitutional complaint. The point is that the subject of public law is State bodies, organs of the State. And so the State cannot turn against the State to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u67	Please, National MP Lavrick of Self-Help. The same is true of Mrs. Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u68	Thank you very much. I have the next question. Article 27 of this bill establishes permanent detention for judges of the Constitutional Court at an unprecedentedly high size. Please call the Ukrainians this size and provide the basis for such actual financial support to the judge of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u69	Thank you for asking. This issue has already been discussed between the first and the second. The point was that when the Constitutional Court Bill was being drafted, there were other standards according to the subsistence minimum, according to the budget. Now, between the first and the second readings, we're going to bring this into line. Both the judicial salary and the judicial detention after they have completed their term of office will be in line with the judges of the Supreme Court. The less the Supreme Court judges can't be, the more European practice is supported by the Venice Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u70	Thank you. Please, the national deputy Zhurzy also conveys the word to Mrs. Sotnik. Please, Mrs. Helena, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u71	Yes, thank you very much. Please tell me about the jury selection contest. In fact, the law does not establish the order of the competition, nor does it limit the appointment of the subjects, i.e. the President, the Supreme Council, and so on. There is no limit to the fact that the results of such a competition and the candidates chosen at this competition should be assigned in any case. So that means that the President willfully and whoever can appoint whoever he wants. Please explain why you did not make this clear in the law, on what basis did you base your idea? Why was this created, this gap, for what purpose, how do you see it, will be settled in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u72	Thank you. I mean, you're wrong. The law clearly establishes order. For example, the Supreme Council of Ukraine creates a competition commission, which includes at least one representative from each faction, then a competition commission makes a recommendation for at least 3 people and then a secret vote by the Supreme Council, for example, is determined by its candidate. Similar arrangements are also established for other subjects of assignment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u73	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. You can go to your workplace, the questions are over. And now, according to the Rules, the word for the co-report on the two bills submitted to the Head of the Legal and Justice Committee, Ruslan Knazević, who will present the position of the Committee on Bill 5336 and Bill 5336-1. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u74	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues, first of all let me clarify something, perhaps from the point of view of the committee, about what happened today when we discussed the appropriateness of applying the procedure for the full consideration of the bill. We certainly welcome the fact that such fundamental bills should be considered in full procedure. At the same time, I want to tell you that unfortunately, there is a certain gap in the Ukrainian Law on the Supreme Council Rules, which is what to do if two bills are included in the agenda and are subject to simultaneous discussion, one of which is more than 100 articles, and the other does not exceed 100 articles. Then it turns out that we can apply different procedures for discussing them, by discriminating the authors of one of the bills that we have, for example, in this case, 98 articles. So I wouldn't blame the Head of the Supreme Council here, as much as I blamed myself on the national MPs that we had not worked in this queen. And today's precedent should be a good incentive for us to look for the right way out of this situation. Because there can be many prospects for such situations. With regard to the bills being considered. My dear colleagues, I certainly don't want to repeat myself anymore, and thank you to the authors of both bills that they have fundamentally explained the essence of their bills, and the main purpose for which they have properly exercised their constitutional right as subjects of the right of legislative initiative. The point is that after September 30, we found ourselves in another legal reality after we had changed the Constitution of Ukraine to part of the judiciary. Of course, the questions that we are taking to make constitutional changes, which are a whole series of constitutional laws, are mutual, and you and I have already made great progress in this plan, not only by adopting a whole range of procedural things, a series of changes to Ukrainian legislation, but even by creating a new body. Remember, just before the new year, we voted in favour of the Supreme Council of Justice. And today we are making further progress by considering the Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Many of the national deputies, including the committee, asked what need for a new law if we had the Constitutional Court Act, and since 1996, since the establishment of the Constitutional Court in accordance with the Constitution adopted on June 28, 1996. But the point is that with the changes to the Constitution of 2016 on the 20th anniversary, so to speak, the activities of the Constitutional Court have substantially changed this range of approaches to the formation of the Constitutional Court, to the release or termination of the powers of the members of the Constitutional Court and to the term of office, this term has increased from the age of 65 to the age of 70, and, of course, to the queen of the powers of the Constitutional Court. Which of the fundamentals has changed. There are several fundamental changes. Well, first of all, subjects have changed according to the Constitution and the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court for recognition of unconstitutional provisions of Ukraine’s laws. On the other hand, the Constitutional Court has been deprived of amendments to the Constitution of powers to interpret the laws of Ukraine. I want to refer to the people's deputies who are still, I know there are even such initiatives, they are now gathering initiatives on the floor to ask the Constitutional Court to interpret certain laws of Ukraine, clarifying this situation, saying clearly that, unfortunately, you cannot use this right now, and you must wait for the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Court, to be formed and operational, to excuse me, which is now in accordance with changes to the Constitution, to form the only jurisprudence. And in fact, every court decision will have an interpretation of the laws of Ukraine, it will be a quasi, in fact, a case law, and we will have to live in this other legal reality and the consumer will get used to it. In addition, these legislative acts propose the establishment of a new institution for Ukraine – the Institute of Constitutional Complaints. This institution, which Ukraine has, will think about, committed itself to the introduction in 1995, joining the Council of Europe. Not after the Constitution was adopted, but before its adoption, it was a year before its adoption. One of the requirements of the Statute of the Council of Europe was the establishment of the Institute of Constitutional Complaints. Sadly, though, there must have been other circumstances that made it impossible to initiate the mechanism. And this has led to a very unpleasant practice: In 20 years, Ukraine has become an absolute record of appeals to the European Court of Human Rights. And now, when.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u75	Please let me finish for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u76	discussed, discussed with the active participation of our European partners: – Council of Europe, Venice Commission. And they strongly insisted that we should initiate this mechanism as one way to dismantle the appropriate references of Ukrainian citizens to the European Court of Human Rights. If I finish my speech, I want to say that the committee has decided by a majority to support another alternative bill under number 5336-1 on the basis of the following considerations. Well, first of all, it is because this bill has been prepared for a long time in the Council of Judicial Reform with the participation of the entire legal community, scientists, international experts. And most importantly, he was the subject of a review by the Venice Commission, which, for the first time in the history of the relationship between Ukraine and the Venice Commission, gave a virtually 100% positive conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u77	Thank you, Your Honor. Now you'll be able to answer the questions of the national MPs. Add, please, four more minutes, because he's speaking, Ruslan, now by two laws, and that's fair, by two bills. Add that to our equality then according to the Rules, as indicated in the introduction, by the head of the profiling committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u78	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. I just wanted to say that the conclusion of the Venice Commission will necessarily be considered as a professional committee when this bill is being drafted for second reading. There's a bunch of things that need to be taken into account, they're more technical. But I think we have a chance this time to get a bill that will be absolutely in line with European practices. Thank you very much. On behalf of the committee, please support on the basis of 5336-1. Thank you. Ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u79	Please sign up for a question to the head of the two billing committee. Please, Mrs. Novak, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u80	Dear Ruslan Petrovich, please tell me, don't you think the selection procedure is too burdensome because it's going to be run by several competition committees and it's just going to lead to confusion in the selection of the same personnel that might claim to be a constitutional judge?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u81	Thank you, Natalia Vasilovna. I am not a subject of the law of the legislative initiative, I cannot comment on their position, I can only express my position because this issue has been discussed for a long time in the Council of Judicial Reform, and it is because of the insistence of our European partners that this is the approach, since it is a common practice for the vast majority of countries of continental law, where the system of constitutional justice is in place. Because not all countries, you know, have continental law and generally the Constitutional Court. Even in countries where there is continental law, and there is no Constitutional Court, where, for example, the Constitutional Councils, there is a slightly different way. In France, for example, the head of the Constitutional Council appoints In agreement with Parliament, the President does not immediately ask anyone without any competitions. Here we offer a model that is in Germany, which is in other countries, Benilux, for example. I think it's effective and worth trying, and then life will show, at least it's much more effective than the one that has now been applied to the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u82	Please, next question from the German National Deputy, please, Mr. Germanko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u83	Opposition Block, Germany Vasily Ivanovich. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether you consider it necessary. Can you hear me, Mr. Knazevitch? Two legislative drafts need to be consolidated as soon as possible, one at a time. As far as I can see, I know half of them are there from the Legal Policy Committee. Second. Do you not feel it necessary to recognize that the Constitutional Court should be a judicial body? This must be stated, as there are widespread approaches to practice in the theory of practice. And, uh, third. Do you not believe that the judiciary is being discredited by the wages it has paid? They discredit judges and discriminate against workers and pensioners with a thousand wage bracelets, you understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u84	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. If you allow me, I will answer your questions very briefly. As to whether these bills can be combined into second reading? If you want my position, I think that they have one parent at all -- that's the valid Constitutional Court Act and those powers that are in the changed norms of the Constitution, that's all possible. I would even say that they intersect to a large extent. The other thing is that a bill with a 1 in "Transitional Positions" is changing a large number of legislative acts that will need to be made, if we adopt a bill. The first bill does not foresee such changes, but they will still be needed if we accept it. So if the first bill is adopted as a basis, I think we can kindly ask the author of the first bill to amend his proposals. And we, of course, are in the middle of a second reading procedure with all the subjects of the law-making initiative and interested national deputies on the committee where we work with you, I think we will find the right solution. As far as wages are concerned. Dear colleagues, the point is that we have a calculated rate for wages before we adopt Law 5130, which we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u85	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan. Okay, 30 seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u86	It's a very important thing. There was a minimum wage, and when these bills were introduced, they were introduced to the legal basis that existed at the time. After that, we took 5,130, the computational measure is now the minimum of living, not the minimum wage. Therefore, during the second reading procedure, the committee will certainly bring the relevant rules into line with the legislation that is already in force at the moment, respectively, after the law has been adopted and its validity has become effective. There won't be any trouble here, my friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u87	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. Please go to work. We're moving on to a discussion of two bills. And now, according to the Rules, colleagues, there are speeches by MP factions and groups. I'm asking you to sign up, and then we'll have a general discussion with the deputies. Now it's from factions. Please log in. Please, from the Opposition Block, the people's MP, Dudenkov, will be speaking. There are colleagues, please sit down, because you can't see the People's Deputies of Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The faction of the Opposition Block insists that the bills in question should indeed be very detailed for the second reading, and very many of the principles enshrined therein should be changed when it comes to the adoption of them in the first reading. We are very concerned that the Constitutional Court is the subject of political supremacy, intrigue, and this is due to the fact that the procedure for the adoption of this body of justice, the only body of constitutional justice, depends on several branches of power, namely, the formation of the Constitutional Court for two thirds by the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine. These political points must be removed if we want the Constitutional Court's decisions and fateful decisions to be taken in a truly impartial manner for the country. Since the Constitutional Court not only gives an official interpretation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the Constitutional Court decides on the constitutionality of the legal acts of virtually all central authorities, both the legislature and the executive. It is also very disturbing that these bills provide for the establishment of a panel of judges of the Grand Chamber of the Constitutional Court who will take decisions. How these decisions will be taken, in the form of conclusions, in the form of decisions of the Constitutional Court in the case of non-constitutionality of a legal act. The total composition of the Constitutional Court, as everyone knows, is 18 persons. But whether these decisions would be taken by a simple majority, or whether certain special types of constitutional proceedings would be transferred to individual panels, with only three members. It is by this we can undermine the impartiality of this court, because it is the political bodies, the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine, that form a part of it. We need to form a Constitutional Court that is impartial, equivalent to both the legislative and executive branches. Rules should be introduced to establish the principle of the composition of the staff by the majority, which is the case with the representatives of the congress of judges of Ukraine, i.e. those who actually have judicial experience. In dealing with many issues of understanding of the procedure, the procedure for reviewing the constitutional submission is very important, it is precisely the understanding of the procedural rule that is necessary for a person who is a candidate for a judge, and it is precisely the experience of judicial work that is required.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u89	Thank you. Please, from the People's Front, the national deputy Leonid Yemen will represent the faction's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u90	Thank you. People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, well, I'm glad to see that even the availability of alternative bills confirms that, in fact, the problem of adopting the Constitutional Court Act is, well, it's already clearly matured if it's not matured. I want to thank all those who have joined this important cause, and I am confident that whatever bill the Supreme Council will adopt on a basis, eventually we will have to gain synergy. Yuri Vitaliyovich, I am sure that if this is your bill, you will support our rightful proposals, as I guarantee it will be exactly the opposite, if they support ours, those right proposals that are in your bill should form the basis of a single, unified bill on the Constitutional Court, which, together with the rights of the Supreme Council parliamentarians, must resolve a number of extremely important issues. And if you'll excuse me, I'm just going to go through the very screaming. For example, it should clearly be addressed in terms of the rules of procedure and the consequences of considering appropriate constitutional guidelines. Because today we have, well, completely missed terms, for example, the consideration of a dual law, a language law, the so-called Koleschenka-Kivalova Act, which should have been considered in one month, and it has been more than a year since this law was examined by the Constitutional Court, and so far we have no conclusion as to the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of this Kivalova-Kelishnick Act. And the overwhelming facts, the evidence that proves that this law has been passed in an unconstitutional way, are confirmed by past decisions of the Constitutional Court. Well, I would like to remind you that at least 20 of the national deputies who voted in favour of that law were officially absent from the territory of Ukraine, which is a foreign service card. Thus, the Constitutional Court today grossly violates its functions and responsibilities. He does not conclude that national MPs should be asked about the constitutionality of such a unique one for our country, especially in these critical times. And such a Constitutional Court should definitely be reformed. Unfortunately, with the changes to the law to release the judges of the Constitutional Court, including those who, in their own time, granted the permission of Yanukovich to obtain the additional rights that he exercised, and which led to the Dignity Revolution, to Maidan, to war with Russia today, we cannot release the judges of this Constitutional Court by law, because the procedure for their appointment and release is defined by the Constitution. But what can we do? We can arrange their activities, order them through the Rules, by law, so that they don't delay their deadlines, so that the Ukrainian people have an answer to whether there are constitutional laws so that the constitutional complaint will work, and everyone, every citizen, and this is excessive money, our state after the end of the lawsuit.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u91	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u92	had the right, guaranteed by the Constitution and by law, to the Constitutional Court's conclusion on the legality and constitutionality of the use of that law to reach a conclusion on its dispute. So, honourable colleagues, I urge you to support these bills in this case on a basis, because we have both of these bills to get the best and to put into one. The People's Front faction's decision is to support an alternative bill where there are authors from our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u93	Thank you. The faction's position is clear. From "Peter Prashenko's Block" by the Janicki People's Deputy. Please come to the floor. Passes the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u94	My colleagues, thank you. The Peter Dusty Block calls for unity and understanding on this issue. Now we really need to adopt the Constitutional Court Act, because the changes to the Constitution that we adopted last summer have entered into force since the end of September. By the Constitutional Court Act, we must make this body illegal. Legally, impartially and transparently, and help to ensure that every Ukrainian has access to constitutional justice. So far, we have two alternative bills. 5336, in my opinion, it seems to me that it is not entirely thought out by the authors regarding the direct function of the law. repeats. So there are, in addition, an expert environment, including international experts, that have found in this paper just a host of conflicting and incomplete points that prevent judicial reform, for which we have accepted changes to the Constitution. So on behalf of the faction of Peter Prashenko, taking into account the decisions of the Committee of Legal Policy and Justice, considering that this bill is recognized as an urgent president, I would like to support the alternative bill 5336-1 and take it as a basis in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u95	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Olena Sotnik of Self-Help is now presenting the faction's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u96	Congratulations, colleagues. There's been a lot of calls from the rostrum that we should reform not today's Constitutional Court, that it's absolutely justified, and I think we blame the present Constitutional Court for having once supported the usurpation of Yanukovich, and no one has taken responsibility to date. But at the same time, when we're discussing these bills, and it's obvious that the coalition will support an alternative bill, so I'm going to talk more about it. We have to tell people the truth that these bills do not in any way lead to judicial reform. The alternative bill contains a number of key threats that completely nullify the actual reform of the Constitutional Court. The first and the key is there's no competition, it's a pseudo-contest, it's a bill that has rules for competitive selection, but there's no order for this competitive selection, which means that it can actually be fully managed, it can be completely manipulated and it can be completely captured by that authority that will then be in power. This is unacceptable because the key that experts have talked about is that the judges of the Constitutional Court should be assigned as a minimum at an independent competition, as a minimum. The second question. This is still a question of the unconstitutionality of an alternative bill. In article 151, cf. 1 The Constitution of Ukraine, for which we recently voted, clearly states that the subject matter of constitutional complaints may be all, including representatives of public law, such as local self - government. I do not understand why the drafters of the bill decided to restrict local self - government, or territorial communities, to depriving them of this right. Third. None of these rostrums have been mentioned here, and how rewarding it will be for the judges of the Constitutional Court to be held under this law. Today, as a minimum, a higher judge. The head of this court will receive $336,000 in life support. I think Mr. Pinzenick of the Peter Prashenko Block can tell you a lot more about the other preferences that will be given to the Constitutional Court judge if we accept this bill. And the last. This bill offers us in fact a complete towel, because the introduction of the Rules of Procedure for this court and the non-description of key safety nets in the law on, for example, acceptance periods for constitutional complaints will lead to some of them to lie there for years and some will be considered a month after submission. So I'm asking my colleagues very much, this is the key, this is the country's judicial reform. These comments need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u97	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u98	We need to deal with these very important observations, which ruin all the positive aspects of these bills and bring to the attention of this Supreme Council a bill that really guarantees us the reform of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u99	Thank you. Please, from the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u100	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, an important law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is now under consideration in Parliament. The procedure is changing, the procedure is changing, a number of other technical points are being introduced, but there is no answer to the key questions that are in society to constitutional judges and judges in general. It's a question of responsibility. When is the new composition of the Constitutional Court created? Why is the present composition of the Constitutional Court not responsible for its decisions? Why did today’s judges who had usurped at Yanukovich help him to usurp power, change the Constitution, today rather than sitting in prison, instead of being held accountable for their crimes, they continue to administer what is called justice? They print decisions on recognition and conformity of the Constitution of Special Status for Donbas. They print a decision that in fact changes the procedure for amending the Constitution, and that part essentially eliminates the existing Constitution before President Poshenko. I have the answers to these questions. Because today’s authorities, today’s President Prashenko uses the Constitutional Court of Ukraine as did his predecessor, Dictator Janukovic. And these judges are not bad at the expense of the state budget. According to Margaret Thatcher, there is no government budget, there are taxpayers' costs. That is, judges at the expense of Ukrainians feel good, and Ukrainians are being avenged for crimes of power. Therefore, the Radical Party demands that I meet with Attorney General Yuri Lucenk. I am publicly from this parliamentary rostrum to the Attorney-General: to bring the Constitutional Court judges to justice as accomplices to the criminal group Janukovic, who helped him to usurp power by changing the Constitution. Well, the next question that concerns every Ukrainian. Dear fellow MPs, what concerns every Ukrainian other than your electronic declarations? You don't know. I'll tell you. Money! Money! Ukrainians want you to give them a salary, a job, and a life worth living. Instead, you give these salaries to the judges. 400,000 a month paid to the judge, then another 320,000 a month's pension. I'm asking, why don't you give the colporteur, the miner, the doctor and the teacher at least 20,000 a month? That's why we don't vote for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, the next will be from the "Fatherland" faction of the national MP Vlasenko. And since we're still having this discussion, we're going to continue to work in Parliament for another 15 minutes after 12.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Sadly, both laws do not solve the key problem. This is a problem of restoring confidence in the Constitutional Court as an institution. Unfortunately, in recent years the constitutional court has been virtually destroyed by the actions that have taken place inside the Constitutional Court and around the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, no adopted law will solve this problem; we will not be able to restore the credibility of the Constitutional Court by law. As long as decisions are made, like what the next session is, is any next session, nothing will happen. As long as decisions are made on changes to the Constitution, as long as others are taken, obviously, are not valid, from the point of view of jurisprudence, decisions, we will not correct this situation by any law. I also agree that the question of the actual composition of the Constitutional Court today's composition will not allow any changes to the law to restore confidence in the Constitutional Court as an institution. Unfortunately, the law that is being proposed, which is likely to be the best that the hall offers, 5336-1. Well, with all due respect to the authorship, let's face it, this is not the bill of my colleagues whose names stand, this is the bill of the President of Ukraine. And unfortunately, this bill makes the Constitutional Court not a thing for people, but leaves the Constitutional Court with a thing, i.e. the Constitutional Court, for the Constitutional Court. I don't think anyone needs this design. We need a real, deep, serious reform of constitutional justice that will make the Constitutional Court a tool that it should be in terms of power-sharing, in terms of the existence of a normal state. It must be the last arbitrator believed by every Ukrainian. And this can only be achieved by making valid, well-weighted decisions, even on issues that are too controversial. And one short thing. As long as ninety percent of decisions are made in written closed conduct, neither will there be anything. We need to open the Constitutional Court, make it transparent, make it transparent.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u103	30 seconds, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u104	Making his work transparent, making his work public, so that everyone can appreciate for themselves and restore confidence in this institution. Unfortunately, without restoring the trust that we have not passed the law, nothing will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u105	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to a general discussion of drafts, which we have 15 minutes under the Rules. I'm asking the national MPs who want to take part in the discussion right now to sign up. Please. Please, Mikhail Golovko, give me your word. Surrenders the word Yuri Lewchenk. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u106	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First, of course, I would like to emphasise that the opening of this room has already been highlighted on a number of occasions today with regard to the absurd financial security standards laid down in both bills. When we have a total socio-economic crisis, when, objectively speaking, the vast majority of our citizens, especially the socially unprotected types of the population, are simply unable to find a penny for food, not that utilities, put up with half a million financing of the Constitutional Court, sorry, please, it's not that it's not that, you know, it's not that immoral, it's wrong, it's just abuse. So even if you're thinking of working something out, you're going to have to clear it up on the first reading, on the first reading. Because to talk about the revisions between first and second reading is outright blasphemy, because you and I know very well in this room, that no really appropriate amendment, I know by myself, because I give them hundreds, so none of them like most of the amendments do. So please remove this standard from the first reading, just so you don't abuse the Ukrainian people definitively, it's the first time. Now let's look at, besides financial security, at the heart of the problem. In fact, neither this law nor the changes to the Constitution, nor these proposals at all, what we have seen in this room for the past two years in the so-called, judicial reform actually in no way positively alters our judicial system. The thing is, the Constitutional Court doesn't have one at all. We have to have a three-level court system, starting with the elected local judges who are elected by the people, the community, these local judges elected by the community, the judges have to choose the appeals courts, and the appeals courts have to choose the Supreme Court of Ukraine, which is, let's say, the American model, to have a function not only to make decisions on specific disputes, but also to treat the Constitution, which is what we should have a system of judiciality. The system of judiciality must be such that the basis of this system, the base, the foundation, is exactly, elected by the people, the judges, not appointed either by the Supreme Council, or the President, or by today's Higher Council of Justice, as it really is, is a political body, even though everyone says that it is not political, it is just as political body. They must be not appointed by any judge; they must be elected by the people of judges. Only then will we really be able to get a little closer to fighting corruption in the judicial system. Everything else is just an ossification, everything else is a bulwark to make the first appearance of reform, and in fact everything remains the same. That's why we can't vote at times like this, because it's just an osmosis. Especially considering such funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u107	Thank you for your position. Please, Ostap One from non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! I'm sure we need to make decisions today. This decision must be conscious and responsible. Because the Constitutional Court Act is actually a continuation of judicial reform, constitutional reform in the judicial branch. And we have to do this because, apart from the fact that trust in the judicial branch of power is completely low, we still have to have a resuscitated and actually effective Constitutional Court, which would be the guarantor of execution or, in fact, the conformity of decisions and laws of Ukraine, the decisions of the local authorities to the Constitution of Ukraine. Regarding the reward of judges. Of course, the court should be professional, professional, and financially independent. What should be the reward? I suggest we move these discussions to the committee. But they did it as openly, as clearly as possible, and communicated to society why we did it. Why society, the people of Ukraine have to pay judges for some of the costs, for actually this independence. And what will the people of Ukraine receive, will they receive objective professional decisions that will serve the people of Ukraine? Because the activity, whether inaction, quality or prejudice of the decisions of the Constitutional Court can lead to the development of both democracy and the development of society and revolutions, including bloody revolutions and the constriction of democratic processes. Dear colleagues, I call upon us all to vote in a responsible manner, to make a decision now, to take the basis, the data, one of the draft laws. And they've moved on, without populism, without slogans, but meaningfully and qualitatively into the committees of profile, so that we can have a balanced and very high-quality version of the law before the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have a request: as concise as possible, because time is very limited. And please turn on the microphone for Marcenka Alexandro Alexandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u110	Please pass the word to the Deputy Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u111	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, the problem is not that we need to reform the Constitutional Court, the problem is that we need, in principle, to create a constitutional justice in Ukraine that has never existed. Because what the Constitutional Court has done and continues to do is anything other than constitutional justice: it serves the temporary interests of the governing body, the specific administration of the President or other institutions; it is a different kind of political conjuncture, but it is by no means constitutional justice. And the peak of this frost was in Janukovic's time when the Constitutional Court didn't even look, well, even one that tried to maintain any formal decency. And actually it was with the hands of the Constitutional Court in 2010 that Janukovic had a coup d'état, actually usurping those powers that had not been given to him in the elections. But as a result of the Maydan victory, we have seen that nothing has changed globally in the Constitutional Court: the same judges who brought the Yanukovich dictatorship to power are sitting in the same position as the same people who have served and continue to serve any authority. And now we probably need to start with that by restoring trust. Since we're about to raise these judges' wages to a cloudy level, or from what we're going to prescribe the nuances of some procedure, there's not going to be a global change. Real justice needs to be restored in the country, we need to move to the choice of judges in the first instance, we need to create an atmosphere where there is confidence in the judicial system in general. And, of course, in this regard, we need to talk about constitutional justice. And it seems to us that in this case these bills don't solve these issues. That's why it's just an osmosis. And especially, of course, these ghastly salaries look cynical and the permanent retention of judges of the Constitutional Court against the enormous poverty of Ukrainians, which, in principle, is annoying to people today and does not produce any positive results.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u112	Thank you. The weaver Hennadai passes the word to Victor Pinzenic. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u113	Dear Head, honourable national MPs, I actually want to raise not the questions that relate to the activities of the Constitutional Court, but the questions that should not be relevant to the law, but they are there, this is the question of the payment of work and the pension of the Constitutional Court. The draft law provides for new, unprecedented standards of pay in Ukraine. The payment of the work of the Constitutional Court judge would amount to 384,000 dollars a month and the heads of the Constitutional Court would be 420,000. Add to this the payoff on your leave is 240,000 dollars, that's 20,000 dollars a month. By the way, those payments to the parliament of the previous assembly have been cancelled even for the Ukrainian national deputies. We're going to pay more than 400,000 dollars. I don't encourage judges to pay the minimum wage or minimum wage, but it should be reasonable, allowing the ratio of pay to work. Before you knew it last year, the average salary in Ukraine was 5,000,200 dollars a month. There can be no civil servant paying 85 times the average salary in Ukraine. You're not going to find that ratio anywhere in the world. The wages can't be cut off from the state of the economy. Last year, GDP was estimated to be 55,000 dollars per capita, which is 5.6 thousand dollars per month. If one pays 400,000 dollars, what's left of the rest of the citizens of Ukraine? But the question is not limited to this, the issue is still in pension insurance. Many of us promised citizens that in Ukraine there would be no end to the division of pensioners into classes: one pension by one rule and the other pension by another. This is where special pension schemes are fixed, and it is true that they are shyly referred to as life support, which is paid at 80 percent of the salary and is subject to automatic indexation. Consider, too, that judges are provided with compensation for renting housing, compensation for the use of service transportation for service purposes. We don't know who controls this use. If anyone thinks it's a tool to fight corruption, I wanted to inform you that the Romanian judge who put himself in jail for corruption gets 3,000 euros a month. This did not prevent just decisions from being made. And the last. The adoption of this law is unfair with regard to the Ukrainian teacher, the Ukrainian doctor, and the Ukrainian pensioner. A reasonable way out of this situation would be to re-examine social standards in order for the authors to introduce acceptable standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we only have time for one more performance. That's why the closing statement is going to be. Eutusek will hand it over now. And that's why I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. In a few minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich gives the word Ivanov Krulk. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u115	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, today we are really considering two important bills that relate to the activities of a single body of constitutional jurisdiction in the country. But let's look at what the Constitutional Court has turned into today. The Constitutional Court has in fact ceased to be an independent body of constitutional jurisdiction that is able to critically assess acts issued by the President, acts issued by the Supreme Council, acts issued by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Constitutional Court has become a servant who occasionally enters into his work to serve someone’s interests but does not stand on the watch of the Constitution and the law. I have examined today the activities of the Constitutional Court regarding the application of the Constitutional Court. I would like to remind you that on December 1, 2014, 57 people's deputies appealed to the Constitutional Court regarding the constitutionality of the Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum, the law written by Yanukovic, the law that is unconstitutional. For two and a half years, the Constitutional Court cannot answer questions about the constitutionality of this law. Please tell me, why do the judges of the Constitutional Court get their salary? We can't get an answer for two years. Next question. If the Constitutional Court in its own documents, the Rules of Procedure stipulate that after the opening of the case in 3 months, it is intended to deal with the matter in substance and to decide, and does not comply with its own regulatory rules, which it has written and adopted. So why do we need a Constitutional Court that can't even make its own decisions? Of course, the issue becomes the subject of pay. Indeed, there is injustice when there are faults. Because, for example, I don't fully understand how one can compare whether a judge of the Constitutional Court is more qualified than, for example, a civil servant who works in other authorities or a teacher who also has higher education. I believe that in order to remove speculation about the pay of civil servants, members of the government, national deputies, judges, judges of the Constitutional Court, one law must be adopted — on the payment of work in the Ukrainian State, where it is necessary to determine how much the President, a member of the government, a national deputy and a judge should receive. Make sure there's no mishap. And the same law should define the issue of paying those who work in places: teachers, doctors, and civil servants whose work in local governments is no less important than those of the Constitutional Court. So I think, let's take off the speculation, and this is the task of this Parliament -- to solve the problem of paying for work in the country. And these laws, of course, need to be considered in the first reading, and all the injustices contained therein, including at the expense of the work, need to be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a few minutes. I'll give you one minute for the closing statement. No objections? One minute at a time. Please, Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliyovich. Then Alekseus Sergey Olegovich. And I'd like everyone to come in. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah. I'll give it to everyone in a minute, Mr. Ruslan. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u117	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Dear colleagues, I was accepted six months ago, and changes to the constitution were accepted. Three months ago, we had to adopt the Constitutional Court Act. It is very urgent to consider this law. I propose that we adopt our bill in the first reading, excluding the issue of retaining judges, by deleting the article on retaining judges. This question needs to be considered separately and decided on separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u118	Thank you very much. Please turn on the microphone for one minute. Alekseev Sergey Olegovich does not take the floor. Then it's Knyazevitch. Takes it, doesn't it? Please. Very short, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, nearly six months ago we accepted a change to the Constitution in part of justice. The adoption of the Constitutional Court Act is the completion of judicial reform. The Constitutional Court Act, which was introduced by members of the Council on matters of judicial reform, is supported by the Venice Commission. And one question that divides the room is the question of wages. The thing is, when this bill was drafted, we didn't have the minimum wage that exists now. And we propose to make an amendment from the voice, to change the law's "minimum wage" to "minimum subsistence minimum." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u120	Thank you. And please, Knyazevich. And, colleagues, we're going into the hall, and now we're going to move on to making a decision. Please invite everyone to the hall, colleagues, an important question. Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u121	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I would like to pause on two aspects, with your permission, which were most sensitive during this discussion. For those judges who decided in 2010 to return to the Constitution in the year 96, respectively, who were said to be sitting entirely in the Constitutional Court and not allowing constitutional justice to be properly exercised. I would like to inform you on behalf of the committee that out of the 15 judges of the Constitutional Court who participated in the 2010 ruling, four judges are working. Two of them: one ends in February, that is, literally a few days later, the other ends in two months, the rest in the next months. So this question will naturally be resolved as soon as possible. And last of all, on wages. Dear colleagues, I want to tell you a secret, but don't tell anyone. A decision on the size of the salary was made in the sessional.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u122	30 seconds. 30 seconds, very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u123	in June 2016 as a means of depriving the judiciary of power by adopting amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Act on the judiciary. It clearly states that the salary of judges of the Constitutional Court is compared to that of judges of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u124	Yes, colleagues, please take your seats. Now we're moving on to making a decision. Please take your seats. We're moving on to making a decision. Please finish, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u125	Colleagues, I very much ask you not to ruin the situation before such an important vote. So, we are now, my friends, implementing our standard of amendment to the Constitution and constitutional law. But given the resonance, on behalf of the committee, I support the proposal just proposed by the author of an alternative bill, which the committee recommends voting as a basis. In the text of the bill, the word "minimum wage" should be replaced by the words "alive minimum" and the corresponding law should be introduced before the legislation in force at the time of the adoption of this law. Thank you very much and please vote alternative law as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u126	Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on to making a decision. Please don't interrupt the meeting! Colleagues. Let's move on to making a decision, colleagues. Colleagues, let's get down to business. And I ask you to prepare for the vote now. Colleagues, I'm not going to let the reform of the court go to waste. And then we're going to go to the regulatory committee, and we're going to figure out what the problem was. It's for me. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's vote, then, colleagues. I'll put two motions to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm tasking the regulatory committee to resolve this conflict and report it. I don't know the reason for this conflict. Now we're moving on to making a decision. Colleagues, we have two bills: 5336, which the committee proposed to reject and 5336-1, which was offered to accept as a basis, a committee. And I'm going to put them to a vote. So I am the first to vote on draft Law 5336, which the committee proposed to reject. Whoever supports this bill, please vote, colleagues. Vote. [[12:19:49]] For-29 The decision is not made. Next up, 5336-1. The committee recommended that it be accepted on the basis of the amendments made by Knyazevich, Alekseus from the rostrum. 5336-1 accepted as a base. Colleagues, please vote, please support the draft Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine 5336-1 on the basis of the amendments made by Alekseyev and Knazević. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[12:20:34]] For 223 I'll be back. Gather around, colleagues. I'm willing to go back to voting for Bill 5336-1. Please vote, please assemble, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[12:21:05]] For 234 And I'm voting on the draft Constitutional Court Bill 5336-1 as a basis. Please vote on the basis. Please vote, please support the 5336-1 basis for the Constitutional Court. [[12:21:28]] For 239. Decision taken. According to the Rules, I'll call it a break until 12.50. And please come to me now, Mustafa, Zalitschuk, Sergey Melniczuka, please come to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, if you would like to return to the session room, the meeting will begin in just a moment. Please be asked to return to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall to continue your work. Time taken for a break is exhausted. My colleagues, I would like to inform you that there is now a great friend of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Lithuania Linas Linkjawiczius, with an official visit to Ukraine. He's in the Supreme Council now, let's welcome, colleagues. [[Applause]] Thank you for your support. We count on further support in difficult times for Ukraine. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have. Colleagues, while the deputies are in the room, I give a minute to speak to a group of deputies. Oksana Bilozer, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u129	Dear fellow national MPs! You see your colleagues standing at this rostrum. These are MPs who are denied the right to work on committees. We have just collected the signatures of all the non-committee deputies, transmitted to the Head of the Supreme Council, so that the decision to secure us on the committees is made and voted. I would like to address the leaders of the factions in Parliament, please make the appropriate decisions. I want to address the heads of the committees, who are also blocking the adoption, making and taking of this decision. Please consider our position and identify the Supreme Council Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u130	We urge us to stop destroying Parliament, parliamentaryism, breaking the Rules. Since 2015, MPs have not been part of any committee. The rightfulness of the salary, the rightfulness of the employment of the national deputy in general. Please concentrate, muster up courage and vote for the verdict today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u131	Thank you, colleagues, thank you. You know, I've asked this question a few times on the vote and I'm going to put it on, and we're going to look for votes. My deep conviction, my deputies have to work on committees, and they have the opportunity to fulfill their parliamentary obligations, that is my firm conviction. And, colleagues, now. Now I have a statement from two factions for a break from the Self-Help faction and the Radical Party. My colleagues, so I'm sorry, the statement for the break is from Self-Help and Fatherland, from two factions. And the word is given for Mustafa from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. Please provide the text of the statement and the signatures. Mustafa Najem.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! We want to address you now from the incident that took place in Parliament, but it's not just an incident. The point is, during our meeting with our colleague, Sergio Leschchenka, a national deputy of the Petra Poshenko Block, Mr. Melniczuk, came forward and, as he found out about his post in Facebook, went into physical action. He actually hit our colleague. That's the thing. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. I want to explain the situation, please, why it happened. The point is, my colleague Sergey Leschchenko wrote a post on the fact that, in fact, the Committee on Combating Corruption is breaking down the quorum just by the votes of these deputies, that is, there are no meetings. But in fact, this incident is just one case. I would now like to take this opportunity to address all those who now support us and those who came to this Parliament for the first time three years ago. In fact, during this entire time of no day, these forces that have fought corruption in this Parliament, with those schemes that were in place during Midan, before Maidan, who are still in operation, we have received no support from the people who were sitting in this Parliament for a day. They tried to do whatever they could to discredit young politicians. What Mr. Melniczuk did is just a signal. In our faction, other factions have deputies who systematically engage in information discrediting people who fight corruption. The media are operating systematically, and information wars are operating systematically. They don't fight those people who stood up to us on Maidan, no man who worked the schematics during Maidan does. These people lack the power to go and beat those people who fought against us in Yanukovic's time, the power to go to the President's Administration, the power to beat the President who sits with the oligarchs and steals money, there is no power to go to the ministries that are still scrutinizing, just as they have done before. There's not enough power to go out there and tell people why it's still happening. Why are they still trading with those areas where you know now, you're buying coal at twice the price, and you're charging it at twice the price. This money is placed in the pockets of specific people, specific officials. All young people in this room are now subjected to torture, physical and moral.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u133	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u134	If you fail to do so, if you do not recognize that these people have the right to speak if they are not allowed to speak. We'll be new to the playgrounds, it won't just end up like that for three, five years. Those who are now smiling also started Janukovic. It was in his faction that he beat people for their position, that his deputies beat people for not saying so. And now we have the same situation. If we don't stop it, we'll be back on the field all of us, and you'll be together, but you won't be exactly friends with those people who were standing on Maidan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, I will give you a replica, as provided for by the Rules. Before that, I also find it unacceptable to fight in the hall. I believe this will discredit those who participate in these fights and discredit the entire Parliament. And besides, colleagues, it just breaks the vote on the two bills, especially on the judicial reform that we had before the break. Therefore, as Head of the Supreme Council, under the Rules, I appeal to the Regulatory Committee to bring this matter to its consideration and to make proposals for appropriate action on the incident. And now I give the word to John Melniczuk. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, it is much easier: I was taught never to lie, and in the yard I have always seen those who try to lie and lie beat their faces. Unfortunately, in our parliament, a cynical lie was uttered in the mouth of a parliamentarian who was now offended, torn and injured, who is speaking across Ukraine. He's been doing this for years. He shaves everyone, starting with the President, ending with the National Deputies. It's much easier. He posted a post on Facebook saying that the National Deputies of the Peter Prashenko Block, members of this committee, went to Bankow, where they were instructed not to go to meetings of the Anti-Corruption Committee. I'm a member of this committee and members of the Peter Dusty Block, who from this committee came to him and said, "We're standing in front of you. Say it, please."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u137	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u138	"Tell me, which one of us did you hear what you published? And you want to look into the eyes." I got what I got. He said, of course, "I can write anything I want anywhere I want, especially since it's my Facebook page." I tell you again, dear boys and dear men, each of us in our lives has to answer for our words, even at the cost of a broken mouth and bruises under our eyes."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u139	Thank you, colleagues. I remind you, we have a case for judicial reform. And I'm asking everyone to focus on their work. And now we're going to consider the next draft of the Law on Amendments to the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine (to deal with matters involving the jury) (No.5271). And, colleagues, I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote. And please support me, colleagues. It's a simple bill, it's one word, but, nevertheless, it's principled. And I'm asking everyone to support the proposal for a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote and please support. Please vote 5271, summary procedure. [[13:08:36]] For-189 Decision taken. And I invite Siroid Oksan Ivanovna, deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is, on the one hand, a technical bill, and, on the other hand, a very important bill, because it has to do with bringing our laws into force with the changes to the Constitution of Ukraine that have been voted on earlier. The changes to the Constitution no longer involve the rudimentary system of the Soviets, but instead the idea of full jury work is in place, which is the right thing to do. Unfortunately, we do not yet have ready changes to the procedural codes where the procedures for jury work will be defined. But we already have a number of court cases blocked today, these cases that were previously foreshadowed by the national jury. These are matters that are very close to the rights of the very vulnerable. It is a limitation on civilian efficiency, recognition of a natural person who is unconsciously absent, adoption, and provision of mental health care in an orderly fashion. The purpose of this bill is to settle that it is not the national jury in such matters, but that the jury will now perform that function. In this regard, I appeal to the National Deputies to uphold this bill and allow the judges to deal with it properly. Thank you very much for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u141	Thank you. I invite you to the report of the deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Alekseiev Sergio Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u142	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice discussed at its meeting on November 2, 2016, a draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine (on jury matters) (No. 5271 of October 13, 2016). This bill. The essence of this bill is very simple. In the current Constitution of Ukraine, in the portion of Justice, which we adopted six months ago, a new term has been introduced, namely "jury." And in the Civil Procedure Code, there are matters of separate conduct that can only be considered with the participation of the national jury. It is a restriction on the civilian fitness of a natural person, recognition of a natural person who is unconsciously missing or dead, adoption, provision of mental assistance to a person in a forced order, and hospitalization to a tuberculosis institution. The fact that these cases are now blocked cannot be considered because the current Civil Procedure Code has the concept of "national jury". We're very simply asking our bill to change the term "national jury" to "jury." This will unlock hundreds of cases in Ukraine, and they can be considered. The main scientific and expert management, in its conclusion (since 16.11.2016), supports the adoption of the bill on the basis of the first reading. And on the basis of the above, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code (on jury-related matters) (by registration number 5271, dated 13 October 2016), submitted by the national deputies of Ukraine, Siroids and others on a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u143	Thank you. Please record: two for, two for, please. Kirichenko Alexei conveys the word Lyashko Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u144	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainian citizens, I address you. Fellow MPs, you can see it's useless to address them because they're busy, they're struggling, they're fighting, they're fighting, they're pianists, they're rating them. Few really think about people who work, few think about veterans, disabled people, pensioners, orphans, all the needy people who need help, attention and support from the state. Today, most of you who go to court see how different the real situation in the courts is from talking about reform in justice. As before, a simple normal person who doesn't have a hairy hand, who doesn't have a bag of money that doesn't have a pope, a judge's mother or a prosecutor, can't defend his rights. And so all the talk about what's going on in court reform is the latitude behind which the redistribution of influence on the judicial branch of power is hidden. The Ukrainian, the first to be tried, forgotten, and no one remembers. What kind of investor comes to Ukraine when they're doing business when they're taking property away, when they're taking away any legal protection they can? And when there is no investor in Ukraine, that means that our Ukrainians will have no jobs and no wages. Therefore, the Radical Party offers not these dog fights that you see in Parliament that are humiliating to every Ukrainian fighting. The Radical Party offers the Ukrainians a strategy to overcome poverty. In order for Ukrainians to have a job worth their wages, support for national production, and protect our own country, that's what people need. And we know how to do that to give every Ukrainian a job, a salary, and a life worth living.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u145	Thank you. From Semenach's Self-Help, Roman Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u146	Please give the word to Ruslan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u147	Dear Head, honourable chairman, may I have your attention for a moment? Every day we're looking at a bunch of laws that relate to a lot of global things. But now we're looking at a tiny bill that concerns a huge number of people. Because the Constitutional Commission, when preparing for judicial reform, did not fully reflect on all the nuances, did not take into account a number of points where thousands of Ukrainian citizens are deprived of access to civil justice today. Because there is no jury institution in the Civil Procedure Code today. And if we don't now vote on this bill, which literally contains a few words in three articles of the Civil Procedure Code, we will show our extreme degree of irresponsibility with regard to those thousands of Ukrainian citizens who, more than six months after the entry into force of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Court of Justice Act, have been waiting for judicial action in a civil process where jury participation is required. So please, come into the hall, take your jobs and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u148	Thank you. Please, Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u149	Please pass the word to Vladislav Dove, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u150	Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Dear colleagues, the faction of Peter Prashenko will support this bill. Even though he actually carries such a technical component, it's a two-pronged bill, because it's a mandatory part of the judicial reform that we started last year in support of changes, appropriate changes to the Constitution in part of justice. So according to the changes that have been adopted in the Constitution, there is now no such concept as "national jury," but there is the notion of "conspiracy," which corresponds to the desire to create an honest and transparent jury based on the example of the best countries in the world. But there is now a situation that a number of categories of cases cannot be dealt with because the Civil Procedure Code provides for participation in the sessions of the national jury rather than the jury, as the Constitution of Ukraine now stipulates. In particular, cases of forced hospitalization of patients with tuberculosis are common cases. So in fact, in a country where we've been fighting the tuberculosis epidemic for almost two decades now, there's no really effective mechanism to protect the population from potential disease vectors. But this is just one of the categories of things that my colleagues have already mentioned. We need to reconcile the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code according to the requirements of the existing Constitution and to close the gap in legislation in the shortest term. So from myself and from the faction of "Peter Prashenko's Block," I urge my colleague to support the bill as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u151	Thank you. Before we give. I'll give you my word. Brief message, colleagues. It's a closing statement. There will be a vote in three minutes. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. In addition, I had many questions about the Ukrainian Cultural Fund. I found that bill you were making, 3597. And I'm going to put it on the vote and the cultural fund, and this bill. And if there's no objection to the hall, I'm going to put them together in the agenda for making a decision, and I hope we can make a positive decision. That's why I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Now, I give you my word for the speech of Master Sergey Volodymyrovich of the Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u152	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Well, colleagues, this law is a testimony to the absolute inadequacy of the judicial reform that was imposed through this hall and the unpreparedness of this judicial reform. Please tell me, who is interested in judicial reform today? Where are the procedural codes according to those changes? Where is the other legislation necessary for the courts to actually work? The President was interested in one thing: getting control of the judicial system. And he got it by taking the changes before. Having pushed through this Parliament the changes to the Constitution and the dot. That's the first one. The other one. Of course, we're now at such a crossroads, because, on the one hand, there are really changes to the Constitution that talk about the need for the Institute of Jury in the civil process. But, people, what are we doing? We're formally changing the names of completely different institutions because the national jury has a completely different nature than the jury. So, let's write a lawyer instead of a prosecutor in these codes, instead of a lawyer, let's write a "prosecutor" instead of a "responseer." Well, that's no way to reform the court. This is not how judicial reform is done. I emphasize once again, these are two institutions that are completely different people's jurors, they have a different nature, they have different functions in the process, they have different powers in the process than in the jury. So the mechanical replacement, despite the fact that the colleagues correctly said that many cases in the courts are now being stopped, but the mechanical replacement is absurd, sorry, legal absurdity. I'm saying, let's move on, instead of the prosecutor in all the codes, let's write a lawyer, instead of a plaintiff, let's write a "responseer" and say it's a judicial reform. But once again, the issues not only in this, but also the necessary procedural codes, which will accurately reflect the changes that there are, which are also not in Parliament. Without that, it's all, you know, more imitation than real.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u153	You'll support it, won't you? Colleagues, all political forces supported the bill. It is simple and short and important for judicial reform. So I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. And I'll remind you, after that, I'm going to put a cultural fund and another bill at the request of the MPs. I'd like you to prepare for the vote, colleagues, please. Please come into the hall. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine (for jury matters) (No.5271) as a basis and as a whole. Please support, please vote, we vote colleagues, please support. [[13:22:29]] For 248 Decision taken. Colleagues, as I promised you, right now I'm asking you to concentrate. We've had discussions on how to get into the agenda. As required by the two factions, the apparatus proposed the draft Law on the State Fund for Humanities Development of Ukraine (3597). So we're going to put inclusion in the agenda for decision-making and 5,491 of the Cultural Fund Act, and 3597. If there's no objection, I'll even put them in the agenda together to make a decision. No objections in the hall? Is it? Inseparable? Why? Colleagues, society, let's do one thing at a time, I think everyone will support it. So I'm the first to draft the Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act (5491). Please include in the agenda for making a decision. Please vote, colleagues. Vote, colleagues, please. [[13:23:47]] For 235 And the next 3597 is the draft Law on the National Fund for the Humanities Development of Ukraine. Entry into the agenda for decision-making. Please vote, please support. It was a general agreement, please vote. [[13:24:16]] For 208 Colleagues, that's not fair. There's gonna be a denial of the hall, colleagues, that's not fair. I'm asking you to back me up. We agreed we'd back you up. Colleagues, it's a day-to-day session for decision-making. It was a general arrangement that we both included. Colleagues, I'm going to set up again, and I'm going to ask you to support 3597: the draft Law on the National Fund for the Humanities Development of Ukraine. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please support me to be fair and fair in the hall, please. It's a day-to-day session for decision-making. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote, please vote. [[13:25:15]] For 227 Decision taken. And, colleagues, we still have another bill that we didn't include because of the discussions, this is the 5610 draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (to improve the mechanisms for ensuring criminal conduct). Colleagues, this is a mechanism of anticipatory justice so that the prosecution can start an ostentatious justice against Yanukovic and his surroundings. Obviously, not all of us were able to figure it out before we put it in place. The factions came to me and told me they'd clear up, they'd back me up. I very much ask everyone to support this bill so that we can carry out criminal conduct against Yanukovic and his environment, colleagues. I ask you to come into the hall and I ask you to vote. So I'm asking you to put in the agenda for the decision a draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (to improve the mechanisms for ensuring criminal conduct). Put it in the agenda so we can get right to it. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support us so that we can look at it immediately. Please vote. [[13:26:40]] For 219 My colleagues, I'm going to ask you again, but I'm asking you for discipline. Colleagues, comrades, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please, I'm going to put it to the vote again. I understand it's just some kind of misunderstanding. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs, get ready to vote. It's a question of justice, it's a question of punishing the crimes of Maidan. And I ask you to support the inclusion in the agenda of decision 5610: draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (to improve the mechanisms for ensuring criminal conduct). Please support me, vote for inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Vote. [[13:27:52]] For 222 Three votes, colleagues. I'm asking you to be seated. Well, colleagues, it can't be that way when we're talking about the need to punish Yanukovich and his environment, and we can't give votes in the hall. My colleagues, I'll put it to the vote again. Please come into the hall. I'll put it to the vote again. Colleagues, please, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. I put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda for decision 5610, the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote, please support, please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:28:54]] For 217 No votes. Colleagues, let's move on to the question of the cultural fund that we've included in the agenda. Let us turn to question 5491: the draft Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act. 5491. Please support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote, please support. [[13:29:33]] For-189 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Ukrainian National Deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, let me begin by thanking the session room that we have included today in the consideration of the two bills that we are really going to discuss. This means the attention of the session room to the development of Ukrainian culture and its key integration into the world's cultural space. Funding for culture and art exists in many European countries, including Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Scandinavia, and Britain. And so it is very important that the bill that we are currently discussing the creation of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund is joined not only by the leaders of large parliamentary factions, but primarily by the national MPs who are specialists in this topic. I want to thank Mrs. Irina Podowak very much, as well as those public figures, the experts working on this subject, including Yuri Makarov, and our distinguished Mr. Proscurne, Olesi Island-Luteia, and other distinguished colleagues. The main objective of this bill is to create the right conditions for implementing a programme of projects in the field of culture and art. And it is very important that the fund contributes to ensuring conditions for the development of the intellectual and spiritual potential of society, greater access for citizens to national cultural acquisitions and support for cultural diversity. There are a lot of discussions, honourable colleagues, about how this fund will be formed, its supervisory board, and how it will be financed. According to a bill that, once again, I would like to stress, was worked on by experts, as well as by representatives and the President's Administration who work in this Queen, it's not just about budget funding, it's about sponsors, it's about mechanisms that are allowed by Ukrainian legislation. There are critical remarks regarding the formation of a supervisory board that can be very corrected or taken into account here for the second reading, which we will definitely do. And actually, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u155	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u156	It is vital that we remember that we will be able to end the war when the war actually ends in our heads. And to that end, we have more emphasis on education and Ukrainian culture, and this will be facilitated by the creation of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u157	Thank you. The first deputy head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Irina Igorovna, is invited to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! On December 21, 2016, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality reviewed the draft Law on the Ukrainian Cultural Fund (No. 5491), introduced by the National Deputies of Ukraine, Heratchenko, Lucenko, Burbak, Lášk, Knieżicki, Friz, Podolak, Kondratuk, Gerasimov, Ionova, Gopko and Sumar. And the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Law 5491 as a basis. We really have some suggestions for clarifying some of the bill's provisions on amendments. I have to tell you that this isn't the Law on Amendments to existing legislation, it's a whole new law. So I invite you, honourable colleagues, honourable national MPs, to participate in the discussion of this bill and in preparing it for the second reading. Because you know, in these circumstances, when a completely new system bill is being considered, which focuses on supporting culture and art, which focuses on ensuring that everyone has equal access to finance their projects, both as a natural person and as a legal person, both independent organizations from the state and budgetary institutions, that you have the opportunity to even put whole segments into the bill if it is actually new, and it is. So we ask the Hall to support this bill in the first reading and invite you to work on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Dear colleagues, now, according to the Rules, we can discuss this bill. I'm asking you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. Of course, all factions and groups will be able to join. And the second bill doesn't go here as an alternative, then it goes separately, read, dear colleague, the Rules, and you'll understand that we're moving in the right direction. Thank you. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk gives the word to Mr. Ribczynski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u160	Very interesting, gentlemen, is the situation. It's always interesting in our culture because we have a culture last, you know. But in this case, I would like to point out that in December 2015, that is to say, more than a year ago, the Humanitarian Fund Act (under number 3597) was passed. All year he's been on committee hearings and so on, the public's been talking about it, and finally he's been brought to quintension, I'd say, before the state of acceptance. First of all, we found out that the state doesn't have money for it. separate money for culture. So we decided to submit as a source of financing for harmful businesses -- tobacco, alcohol -- in order to finance culture through excise duties. The same is true of the council. There's gotta be a foundation board. It should belong to the public, not to the Ministry of Culture and not to the mechanism that steals money. You know very well that we have most of the ministries, unfortunately, they're actually companies for money. The law that is proposed proposes that money be withdrawn from the budget because of the sponsors. There is no culture before the adoption of the Law on Mecynation and there will be no culture. So I propose that I abstain from voting for this cultural fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u161	Thank you. Next, please, dear colleagues. Oksana Bilozer. You're welcome to speak. You'll be out of town, won't you? Out of place, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u162	Thank you. On the contrary, I would like to welcome the authors of this bill. And on behalf of the art elite, I want to ask the hall to vote in favour of this systematic new conceptual bill. We're talking to you today that we're losing information, including a war whose main part is art and culture. Therefore, the availability of such a fund will provide additional opportunities to finance all art projects. And I'm deeply convinced that we're going to finance and develop not only cultural and artistic projects within the country, but, at the expense of the funds that will come, including to this fund, we're going to be able to present our Ukrainian achievements, cultural and artistic, at a decent level, beyond our state. And our Ukrainian diaspora, which today bears on its shoulders the identity of the state of the world, will finally have great support from the Ukrainian State. And I invite everyone to vote, and I emphasize that the law. The bill is only voted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u163	Thank you, dear colleague. That is so, only in the first reading are we considering it today. Mrs. Irina Podowak's self-help faction is invited to the floor. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u164	Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! We have the opportunity now to move very well and very honestly from declarations and from descriptions of situations that we often use, which are linked to our culture, to implement real mechanisms so that culture will cease to be a servicer of the state and become a self-sufficient tool and become something that is necessary and capable of being sensitive to every citizen of that State. So I ask you to be as consolidated as you have signed from different factions, from different groups, this bill, in the first reading, to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u165	Thank you, Your Honor. Only three deputies were enrolled to discuss the bill. Please, from your faction, Your Honor, Mrs. Oksana, have the right to speak to the Rybczynski College. I can't give you my word under the Rules. Are other factions or groups willing to speak on this bill? I'm reminding you that we've presented the position of Peter Poshenko's Block, Self-Help, and essentially the Radical Party of Lachka. Are they still desirable? Dear colleagues, we are now, yes, going to the vote. I would ask that the Ukrainian people's deputies return to the session room because we are now going to the vote so that we don't lose the bill. Then we'll discuss Bill 3597. The bill will now be adopted in the first reading. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room. The author of the bill came back, too, the reverend Maxim. Please, Your Honor, we are now going to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u166	Colleagues, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, please return to the hall. We're going to support Ukrainian culture, it's now necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u168	So, can we get to the vote, colleagues? So, colleagues. I see not everyone's still in the room, they're still coming in. Give me another 30 seconds, please. The Supreme Council Secretariat, please inform us that we are moving on to a decision-making process. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act (No. 5491) as a basis. Colleagues, just on the ground. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote for the basis. Please vote, colleagues, based on 5491. Please be supportive. [[13:42:19]] For 215 We didn't make it. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I'll be back. Please invite the deputies to the hall. As I understand it, everyone supported the bill. I understand there's just a lack of discipline in the hall. Please invite the deputies into the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Authors, please help to gather deputies. So, can we vote, colleagues? I propose to go back to voting for the draft Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act (5491). Colleagues, please vote, please support. Colleagues, there's a minister of culture, we'll give him a minute to do it. Do we vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote! So return to 5491, draft Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote, please. Please be supportive. Please vote. We're voting back. Please be supportive. The Minister of Culture has come to convince us. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:44:41]] For 227 We're back, colleagues. Decision taken. Everyone, please remain seated. Please come into the hall. I ask you to return to the voting place. And I'm voting on the draft Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act (No.5491) as a basis, colleagues, just as a basis. Please be supportive. Please vote, colleagues. Vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:45:22]] For 225 Colleagues, how are we supposed to be? Colleagues, let me give the Minister of Culture another minute. Please, Mr. Eugene. Mr. Eugene, just give us a minute to explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, not so many questions about cultural issues. Actually, dear colleagues, I don't want us to debate about the funds. This is a practical question, because the budget already has the funds that we have in the Ministry of Culture. We don't want to continue with the communist methods when the official determines which art projects to support or not. This is a situation of good hands toward the nonstate sector in order to support young performers, artistic projects, and to save cultural objects. Yes, the next step should be the Law on Mechanism. But the first step on. To the path of decommunization in the field of culture it will be now if everyone comes to this room. I'm asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u170	Colleagues, let's not make politics where it's not there, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u171	Well, now we're done talking, Mr. Oleg. Mr. Eugene, the discussion is over. Now we're going to define by vote. If. I'll put it back on now, I know we didn't vote. They didn't vote. So, colleagues, I'm re-voting the proposal to go back to the draft Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act. I ask you to support and please vote, colleagues. Take your seats, colleagues, please. Please vote and support the return to the draft Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. This is trust in our minister, a colleague. [[13:47:37]] For 227 Back, 227. Colleagues, I'm voting on a bill on the Ukrainian Cultural Fund. Please vote, please support 5491 as a basis. Colleagues, we vote, we support culture, we support young performers, we vote for colleagues. Please support, we vote. [[13:48:42]] For 231 Decision taken. Colleagues, as I promised, are next in line with the draft Law on the National Fund for the Humanities Development of Ukraine (No. 3597). And I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support the reduced procedure, please. [[13:49:22]] For 193 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism of the Chamber of Arthur Leonidovich to report. Silantiev. Silantiev, right? Here's to Silantieva.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u172	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The committee discussed Ukraine's bill on Ukraine's State Fund for Humanities Development and noted the following. As has already been said, the purpose of the draft law is to promote the development of the humanitarian sphere of our State by creating legal conditions for the establishment of the State Fund for Humanities Development in Ukraine, whose work will be geared towards the implementation of State and social, social, cultural and humanitarian projects and their support for the promotion and development of physical culture and sport, culture and art, education and science, health protection, and home-grown tourism. The committee held a thorough discussion of the bill, hearing the arguments of both the drafters and supporters of the bill and the opponents of the bill. During the discussion, it was pointed out that the main advantage of the bill was the proposal for the comprehensive support of the entire humanitarian sphere, not one of its components. It's not just about social issues, it's about the national security of Ukraine, because there are a lot of pressing problems, especially collaborationism and separatism, which are caused by the lack of State attention to the social sphere. Therefore, according to members of the committee, the problems of the humanitarian sphere need to be addressed in a comprehensive way, by supporting the area of physical culture and sport, health, strengthening national protection of children, populationing and increasing national cultural acquisitions, modernizing and creating infrastructure for physical culture and sport, education and scientific infrastructure, healthy lifestyles, child and youth sports, supporting talented young people, and creating a new Ukrainian elite, promoting and popularizing Ukrainian tourist routes. In touch.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u173	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u174	In connection with the above, the committee decided to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like your support, Your Honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u175	Thank you, colleagues. Please record: two in, two in. Vitaly Semenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, all the laws that support culture, education, sports, I think we need to be supported, because this is our future. The fact that we today have huge problems related to Ukraine's territorial integrity, to war, is that they're set up in a lot of things, because we've been paying little attention to our humanitarian problems since the 1990s. We're thinking about the economy, and that's the right thing to do, but when we don't think about humanitarian problems, when we don't think about education, when we don't think about raising our young, we have what we have today. So I'm quite prepared to support this bill, to support the initiative. I think the committee will be able to bring together a bunch of different bills. And I also urge you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u177	Thank you. Please, Bandurov Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u178	I give the word of Lithuania to Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u179	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! It is good that we have such an interest in discussing this issue, so the problem is also very painful. I'll just name some numbers. We have first place in the world as children's alcoholism, fifth in the consumption of alcohol by the population, second in the world, by the number of deaths from alcohol. We have a third of children who start smoking at 10 years of age. That's what the proposal to create a suitable fund is all about. And I don't understand the colleagues who signed this document, and then they don't vote. So you're doing it for a little bit to show off your successful work. And now, essentially. Two approaches, two suggestions. But I think that the Presidium and the Committee should do it peacefully: to say what's the advantage of one document and what's the advantage of the other, to create a working group and to make a document for the country, not under itself. I look at it that way, I think it's better to do something beneath me, then I think it would be good for the country. The difference in these documents is that it's proposed not to let the state in this fund, in the second bill that we're discussing, because otherwise, if the state rules, there will be no explanation. And the next moment. Costs are not from the state budget, and through which is "public organizations and mecenities." We've already had metzens, and I don't want to give sad examples. And it's suggested that we put "sin tax" on alcohol and tobacco. And I understand why you, dear colleagues, are opposed. Offer. We need to adopt two bills on a basis. Create a new working group and process one document. Otherwise, I guarantee you, there will be no decision. And you don't have to play tricks. At least we need to be honest about the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u180	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u181	Please pass the word to a fellow Ribczynski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u182	My dear colleagues, do you remember voting for quotas when we voted for both laws so that one would pass? I want to say a very important thing, well, a very important thing. The point is that we have a case, and the case is that everyone wants to be the author of the initiative. In fact, we had previously passed a law. This law is passed to make this happen. That this cultural initiative belongs to the President, his team, and so on. I don't see anything wrong with that, but I'm sorry, we have to join the public hearings, and then everything will be. I propose to vote in the first reading, as Vladimir Mikhailovich said, and not to make culture, as it were, a market. Because we really need a culture. Churchill said, "We're fighting to make culture, so we're not taking a penny out of the cultural fund." So I would very much like you to support and deliberately vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u183	There's still a closing statement by Irina Igorovna. Then we go to the vote. I ask everyone to come into the hall, please invite everyone into the hall so that we can vote in the second hour. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want us to really conflict over a matter where there is absolutely no basis for any conflict. I just want to tell you one thing. We should eventually put an end, first, to the lie, second, to the manipulation, all the more in the humanitarian sphere, which is or is not the most important thing in our state. Unfortunately, it is not the most important thing in our brains with you. And when I hear about that. Please don't shout from the hall, it looks pathetic. When I hear about any fund that's created by excises from any kind of activity that's harmful, including, it's not government budget funds, I don't get it right now. Because as of today, all kinds of taxes and excise duties, including, in fact, state budgeting. So if you and I are going to say that costs. tax, part of the farm tax goes to sports, part of the alcohol goes to culture, part of the small enterprise tax goes to, I don't know, youth policy, then does that state have a fiscal policy, then does that state have a tax policy? No problem, let's change our approach. There are many models of culture in the world. British is just one of them. So please make a decision as to whether we are creating a monstrous structure that will take away authority from many of the already existing central executive authorities, or whether we are focusing on what we are talking about -- culture and art. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u185	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Yes, as long as the MPs come in, one more minute from the interfractional. Head, one minute. In a minute of voting, please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u186	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, indeed, without a culture, a nation cannot exist. And the right decision today is that activities such as alcohol and tobacco need to be further taxed because we are simply destroying our nation. These activities are profitable. Sadly, though, we see that every dollar made of alcohol is at least 50 dollars worth of damage to the state. That's half a percent of the traffic, that's 80 percent of the prisoners, that's 700,000 alcoholics that spend millions, billions of our nation from the budget. And so we must take all the steps to limit the singing of the nation, the singing of young people, and force them to pay more and so that alcohol is not available. And those same costs can go to cultural development, because today our culture is, in fact, in a pitiful state, and we need to uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m0.u187	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm putting the draft Law on the National Fund for the Humanities Development of Ukraine (No. 3597) on the ground. Colleagues, based on. Please vote. [[14:01:49]] For 193 Colleagues, I'll put once on my way back to. if there are voices. I would like to suggest, colleagues, that we go back to the 3597 draft Law on the National Fund for the Humanities Development of Ukraine. Please vote. [[14:02:20]] For-195 No voices. It's too big a breakout. The draft Law on the National Fund for the Humanities Development of Ukraine (3597) declares it rejected and in accordance with the law. I'm going to the committee. In order for the previous one to adopt the law to take into account these amendments that are in this law, as Vladimir Litwin said, so that we can read the second reading of the ideas and initiatives that are in the two laws so that we can unite them so that in the second reading we can unite the hall in the consideration of these bills. Dear colleagues, the morning meeting is over. I would like to point out that after lunch we are moving on to local self-government. Dear colleagues, very important laws. They are awaited in many local communities that are united. I very much ask everyone to come to the hall at 4:00 so that we can look at the local self-government block effectively and effectively. And now the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. And I invite everyone to come to the conference room at 4:00 to continue our work. Thank you.
