ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u1	Good morning, colleagues! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Are you ready for your registration? Please register. [[10:01:01:01]] There are 336 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague Denis Olegovich Silantiev. Welcome to your colleague's birthday. [[Applause]] And I would like to remind you that in accordance with article 25 of the Rules we have 30 minutes Tuesday for the speeches of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. Please record factions and groups to participate in the performances. Groups and factions, please record. Not all factions have been able to log in. I'm asking you to re-write. Undo an existing entry. Colleagues, I'm asking you to be careful in the recording. And please sign up for the factions and groups. Please. I'd like to re-record. Colleagues, please. They didn't make it. Please re-record, participate in the record. Did everyone sign up? So, my colleagues, I'm inviting you to speak on the block of Peter Prashenko, Chubarov, the national deputy of Chubarov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u2	Dear Head, dear colleagues, there is no day in the temporarily occupied Crimea so that Russian invaders do not rush into the houses of Crimean Tatars and Ukrainians. In recent months, the human rights situation on the peninsula has deteriorated dramatically. On July 27, Crimean Tatar activist Ruslan Zitulayev was sentenced to 15 years in prison. On August 4, Ukrainian activist Volodymyr Baluch was sentenced to 3 years for 7 months. On September 11, the deputy head of Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people, Ahtem Chigoza, was sentenced to 8 years in prison. On September 22, a well-known Ukrainian journalist, Mikola Semina, was sentenced to 2.5 years in prison with a ban on any public activity. On September 27, the deputy head of Majlis, the Crimean Tatar people of Ilmi Umerova, who suffers from Parkinson’s disease, was sentenced to two years of colonial activity and banned from public activity. And between these sentences, the imprisonment for the 10 days of the 76-year-old Karametov Server is brutal in front of the four-year-old Renata Paralamov's father's family-kidnapping, who has been tortured in the administration of the FSB in Simferopol for a period of time. Yesterday alone, four Tatars were detained: Talata Abdurahmanova, Arsena Hubidinov, Renata Suleimanova, Seiran Mustafaev, who are allegedly accused of being extremist. Dear colleagues, the real war from the position of the Russian invaders, all those Ukrainian citizens whose names are in your workplace, is that they are faithful to Ukraine, they love Crimea, and they don't accept the invaders. The overwhelming majority of the population of Crimea expect of the Ukrainian State, from the international community of decisive action aimed at a possible more rapid shareholding of Crimea. And we Ukrainian parliamentarians, Ukrainian states and Ukrainian people have to make every effort to bring back Crimea, so that the return of Crimea will take place in the shortest terms. Dear colleagues, you have the names of 48 Crimea prisoners in your workplace. I would now like to take them into my hands, these names of prisoners, and stand up and, if possible, show respect to all political prisoners by raising these.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u3	Please give me a moment to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u4	These 48 names, half of them are Crimean Tatars, Ukrainians, there are Russians, there are people of other nationalities, it's our respect for their courage, their loyalty to Ukraine. I want the government and the President as soon as possible, and all of us have done it to unite with these courageous people. And I also welcome the daughter of Ilma Umerova Aisha, who is here in the balcony hall. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u5	Thank you. [[Applause]] From "Rebirth" to "Victor Vasilovich Bondar." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u6	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Speaking in the language of European diplomacy, our MP's "Rebirth Party" group is concerned. She's worried about that ridiculous budget project that we've been given and considered in the last week. It's not a project on Ukraine's budget, it's a project that's completely unsystematic, illogical and just a project of government spending, it's a project to pay salaries and social wages through Ukraine's budget. There's no goal that we want to change in the country in a year, but there's debt on the Ukrainians again, 350 billion dollars will be borrowed back into the Ukrainian State Budget. The total debt at the end of the year will be 2.7 trillion dollars. This is a project that the government of Ukraine has given us. We ask, Who and when, and how will these funds be returned? If you involve 350 billion, where will you direct them? Going to dinner again? That's ridiculous. We haven't seen any industrial projects. Spend 250 billion of these 350 to support industry, to buy industrial equipment, to buy cheap, long-term purchases, to lend modern technology, to save energy -- these will be projects that will deliver results. Spend money on real social programs: building new hospitals, repairing capital hospitals, providing and implementing health insurance. Regrettably, this budget has nothing to do with the reforms that are being announced to us today, telling us that nearly 150 reforms have been made in three years. How do they relate to the budget? Now, lots of different proposals are being voted out as if they were reforms, not reforms, they're imitation reforms, they're not related to the draft budget that we're proposing. Because if you want to reform something, especially health care, it has to be budgeted, it's going to have to have capital costs, instead we see that hybrid re-centralization of funds is going on. The 25 billion will be distributed through the districts, before that cost went straight to the communities, to the cities, to the villages. Once again, the transfer of powers of colleges, licenses, technicians -- everything is transferred to funding places. So first you give a penny, then you take it with a gun and you survive whatever you want. It's not a budget, it's not a policy, it's a policy, it's a policy when the authorities in Kiev are making money, it's again creating some corrupt feeds and so on, and the whole country is going to have to pay for the debts they're owed today. So we are definitely against such approaches and against them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u7	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm going to add not more than 10 seconds to the performance, 10 seconds to the performance. From the Opposition Block, Yuri Boyko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the explosions in Kalinovac in general reflect the situation in the state. Everything that tries to reform power is becoming explosive, starting with the setting up of alarm systems in children's camps and ending with pension and educational reforms. Last week, I went to three areas, and people say about these reforms: under the pressure of the International Monetary Fund, an operation is under way to reduce the population of Ukraine. The person who will not be destroyed by pension reform will have a medical record. Judging from the budget figures, the government's top priority for the next year is to stick to positions based on the force. Record amounts are planned to be spent on the army, the police, the prosecution, the courts, to the detriment of all social programs. In the government, there was clearly a mix of priorities. Two times less than the number of law enforcement officers are assigned to education. There were no 3 billion in the budget for rural medicine or 300 million to save social scholarships, but almost a third of the total budget, 300 billion dollars, would go to maintenance of a higher government apparatus and muscle. When buying coal abroad, the budget for the first time was used to support miners. All of this is due to the lack of control of power, because the opposition has been deprived of control through Parliament's committees, the Ombudsman's Institute, the Court of Auditors, as it has been accepted in all civilized countries. Parliament violated article 228 of the Rules without considering the Government's report to the Supreme Council, and article 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine on budget implementation, and, above all, no one there has received an answer as to how 60 percent of Ukrainians have been outside the poverty line in the last three years? This is the main result of government activity. We urge you to immediately listen to the government report by considering the crisis exit program; in the new budget, halve the cost of a power block and send this money to support teachers, doctors, and pensioners. We demand that Parliament consider the issue of the mistrust of the government. We would like the people to see how many deputies support this Kabmin and the reforms he has proposed. We call for support for this initiative, an appropriate draft decision and a statement to be passed on to the MPs and the media. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u9	Thank you. The "Fatherland" faction gives the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine to Taras Batenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian community! We are grateful to the faction of Fatherland, who today has agreed to transfer her right to the Ukrainian group of Ukrainian Patriots' Association, Ukrop. As you know, Ukraine has been slowly jumping into the criminal '90s lately. And in this collapsing war, the return of the 1990s is very easy to fight and fight, and to shoot representatives of the opposition parties who are fighting the dishonesty that is now sitting in various authorities. On September 28th, in the city of Cherkas, late in the evening, a defiant and cynical head of the region's Cherkasian Party Organization, the head of the Cerkasa City Committee, Mr. Michael Binusov, was killed. That same day, that night, a car was blown up in the city of Baranovka, the head of the Ukrop Party faction at Mrs. Natalie Kokiko's District Council. And a month earlier, the head of Mr. Didkovsky's Korstosev district organization was shot. The representatives of our party have recently felt a constant sense of criminality shooting in the direct and figurative sense of the word. We also want to point out that the opponents, the criminalities that are now growing with the authorities of different levels, feel today the representatives of other parties. In fact, the mayor of Cherkas also targeted Mr. Anatoly Bondarenko, who represents the Fatherland today. And he personally confessed to me when we said goodbye to Michael Binus. I want to say that what we saw in Chercas when we came to say good-bye to the tens and hundreds of people who came to spend the last time fighting for their rights is not fear, it's a feeling of anger and a sense of hatred. What I'm saying is that in a situation where power is incapable and unwilling to fulfil its primary responsibility to protect the lives of citizens and society, society must organize itself to protect the rights and freedoms and property of Ukrainians. We ask and ask the Attorney General of Ukraine, Mr. Lucenk, Minister of Internal Affairs of Mr. Habakkuk, to take these incidents and murder of Michael Binus under his own personal control so that the officials of the prosecutor's office and other authorities will not cynically claim that someone will pry on these deaths. We don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u11	30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u12	We want to make sure that we're criminal and you don't get cynical about who's going to be next. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u13	Thank you. Please give the floor to the leader of the People's Front of the Maxim Burbak faction. Please, Mr. Maxime!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction expresses its appreciation for the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the National Police for the operation and detention of a diversified group that carried out a series of terrorist acts in Ukraine. It was this group that provoked the synagogues of Cherniv and other Ukrainian cities, attacked the Polish Consulate in Lutsk, planned and carried out attacks on Ukrainian veterans of ATO and their families. Russian agents have been tasked with planting strained relationships with our European partners, destroying mutual trust, and depriving Ukraine of international support against the aggressor. Detaining divers testifies to the depth, systemic, and unrelenting work of the enemy on earth, and this enemy needs to be able to resist harshly by protecting national interests and security. Last week, however, we received another bitter testimony of the inadequacy of the complex military conditions of individual leaders, who today have the primary responsibility of protecting the state. Balakleia, Svatovo, Novoyanisol, last week Kalinovka is a fire on military arsenals that are in the name of the General Staff. The bloom of negligence and criminal negligence. Billion - dollar missiles were destroyed in a warring country. The People's Front faction demands that this criminal activity be investigated and that it be held accountable. As soon as the arsenals survived in the country. We also require a report to the members of the Parliamentary Committee on National Security and Defence in the secrecy regime on the number of munitions, on the plan of the Ministry of Defence, the General Staff and the Ucrobanprom on the restoration of arsenals. And more about the pain. We must accept judicial reform today. It's very dangerous to drag it along, or we're paralyzing the newly formed Supreme Court of Ukraine by the new transparent rules. Blocking judicial reform will mean that all the corrupt judges in power will remain viable, and this will be a deliberate diversion against the state that will be reflected in every citizen. This will undermine Ukraine’s entire legal system. An effective system of anti-corruption litigation must be built urgently, and the entire legal branch of the judiciary must begin to clean up. All corrupt judges to play! Thousands of cases against corruption, initiated by the Civil Service, the NAB, the SBU, must be brought to a legal end: guilty or innocent, must be condemned. The People's Front believes it is necessary to create a working group to work on a harmonized draft of the Anti-Corruption Justice Act and introduce it into the session room. Next, we take the court and start the pension reform. The People's Front is calling for a pension reform this plenary week. And to that end, we are ready to work without interruption and at night until the pension reform is adopted. There are millions of pensioners outside the Parliamentary Walls who are awaiting an increase in pensions. Our faction colleague, the head of the committee, Ludmila Denisov, made every effort to improve the bill and make it fair and transparent. Sure.?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u15	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u16	Most importantly, to make the transition period less painful for Ukrainian citizens, I am addressing all colleagues, let's work constructively, and the main thing is effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u17	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from the Self-Help faction, the head of the Oleg Berezuk faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u18	Your Honour, Madam Chairman, Your Honourable Colleagues! The morning of the Dignity Revolution, the morning of hope and hope, is such that it quickly ends and passes on to the polar night. Ukraine is entering a difficult period of rematching, rematching oligarchy and criminal governance in the state because of the weakness and corruption of government today in the country. And here are some concrete examples, a review of the Law on the so-called judicial reform, which amends 20 legislative acts and four codes, this is an example of how the shameful norms of the prosecution's infamous influence on the trial and full transparency in the country's trial are being brought back to life. To whom will this serve? This will serve as criminality and corruption. The second question, the hysteria surrounding the Law, which no one has ever read about reintegration, is that the attempt to destroy Ukraine's sovereignty by changing the Constitution today is trying to move forward in the Law on Reintegration. To whom will this serve? This will serve to legalize the presence of the Ukrainian enemy in occupied territories and to destroy the Ukrainian State from the inside. And the third example of oligaric criminal rematching is the country's 2018 budget. What do we see in the budget? People take money, zero for medicine, but they pack money in the law enforcement agencies of the IMF, the Attorney General's Office, they pack money with the President's Administration. What state do we build, human or oligartic, that will serve exclusively the oligarchs? What's more, it's not enough that it's an inflation budget, and there are no mechanisms for internal economic development. The government does not implement a direct instruction on the Tax Code and does not build a budget on a new tax on the withdrawal of capital, which will cut off the ends of the oligarchy and raw materials cage, but will allow small, medium-sized entrepreneurs to develop their business. But that is not the case, for the government serves the oligarchs. Moreover, the budget provides for the full abuse and looting of local budgets. Why? Because oligarhat realizes that the power of a powerful Ukrainian state is solely in the power of small towns and villages. That's why they need to be destroyed. You've seen and seen a picture of destruction, an example of the power of Lviv's local self-government over the course of the year. You will now observe and observe the abuse of the power of local self-government in the city of Mikolayev, the Mikolai district, because there is the power of people who support real local self-government, but the oligarhat doesn't like it. Similarly, the growth of local self - government does not appeal to the growth of power.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u19	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u20	Among the self-help deputies in the Harkowan City Council, who are simply physically excluded from the session, and the law enforcement agencies serve not the local self-government and the people, but the oligarchic cage that is now taking a rematch in the Ukrainian institutional state.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u21	Please give the speech to the head of the Radical Party of the Oleg Lášk faction. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u22	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Economic growth, new jobs, overcoming poverty, increasing wages and pensions are the Radical Party program that we propose to implement here in Parliament. The only way to get the country out of poverty, poverty and dependency is to restore the economy, which is to raise citizens' income. And when we're told about retirement, about medical, about any other reform, reform is what you can put on bread! If, as a result of so - called reforms, people are deprived of the ability to heal, learn, work, earn, feed their families, they are not reforms, they are antireforms that rob Ukraine of the future. Today, the government is talking about pension reform. The goal of pension reform is not to raise retirement age but to raise pensions! To ensure that millions of Ukrainians who have worked hard all their lives receive pensions. So that millions of Ukrainians who are working today will retire to receive a decent pension. The aim of the medical reform is not the hospital economy, it's not the economy of Ukrainians, it's not the closure of hospitals, it's the increased expenditure of the state budget on financing the health sector. The medical reform proposed by the government is the reduction of hospitals, the closure of hospitals, the reduction of health workers. These reforms primarily affect people of the village, people of limited means, people of limited means, and many children. Do we need these reforms? No! No! The Radical Party is proposing other reforms. Modernization, restoration, creation of new jobs, transformation of Ukraine into a modern, intellectual state. Last week, along with my colleagues Victor Halasyuk, Sergey Skuratowski, I visited Kharkiv, Zaporozhye, Mariupol, a company called the Harkowi Tank Plant, Zaporystal, the Sietch Motor, Viacheslava Boguslayev. Here is an example of how to modernize the country! When investors invest billions of dollars. When Zaporoztal set a historic record today to increase the flow of the boat! When Motor City releases a new "Hope" helicopter. This is the hope of Ukraine, new jobs, higher wages, more work, more pensions, more production, more finished production. Ukrainians have a job and a decent salary!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time spent on performances is exhausted. Two messages came to the Presidency. And I'll read them first. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the establishment of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "Parliamentary Platform for the Fight against Tuberculosis" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Kiral Sergey Ivanovich, was elected head of this association. Hello, Mr. Sergei. Next message: Welcome to Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, for nine years now, according to a decree issued by the President of Ukraine on September 30, Ukraine celebrates the day of adoption. I propose that we, on behalf of the session hall, now cheer to all the families who adopted Ukrainian children. It's really a very big job and it's a high mission. [[Applause]] Every year, imagine about 1.5 thousand orphans and children deprived of parental care are adopted in Ukraine. Nearly 13,000 children live in foster homes and foster homes, with 52,000 more children being cared for and cared for. At the same time, more than 6,000 children remain orphans or live in residential institutions. And this week, honourable colleagues, there is an exhibition in the walls of the Supreme Council in support of adoption, the realization of the right of every child to be brought up in the family. I want to ask the deputies of all factions to support this position, to honor, to see the exhibition, and to support the action that boarding school is not a place for children. Make every effort for all Ukrainian children to find Ukrainian families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u25	Thank you. So the messages are read. Colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. And I want to remind you that it's the third week that we're considering the draft of Law 6232 on amendments to codes. And I'll remind you that we've stopped at 89 and we're moving on to the right. I ask the head of the committee to take up the post of battle. And I want to remind you, colleagues, that today we have to conclude the trial reform. And I'm sure we have enough potential to move on and accept the issue of pension reform. So I invite everyone to work constructively, and I invite everyone to work effectively and respect each other during our work. So we're at 89. He insists. Sergei Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u26	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Yes, we're back to discussing judicial reform. The only thing I want to point out is that this situation is artificially created by the author of this bill, Peter Prashenko, who has completely illegally combined all the codes together. And if that were not the case, we would have passed through three codes and would have had peace of mind. And now we're going to continue the discussion. 89 The amendment refers to the procedure for the selection of judges. We have repeatedly said that as Peter Poroshenko's ideology establishes such judicial colleges, which will be determined by the judges themselves, who will not be determined arbitrarily by the electronic information and information system, the only judicial information and telecommunications system, but will be determined by the judges themselves, which is unacceptable, because the basic guarantee of an impartial hearing is violated by an impartial court. So please support the 89 amendments that remove these contradictions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u27	I'm voting 89. I'd like to make up my mind. The committee does not support it. [[10:31:52]] For-74. The decision is not made. 94th. Don't insist. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u28	Of course, Andrew Volodymyrovich. Again and again, it has been noted that the ideology of all the codes proposed to the Ukrainian society, Poroshenko, is essentially the strengthening of people and their attachment to the electronic form of communication with the court. But I want to remind you that sometimes court cases last for years, years, and over the years, people are going through some changes in both their financial situation and their possibilities. And once again, I would like to remind the honourable author or non-appreciative author of this bill, Peter Dustenk, that we have Internet-provided not all Ukrainian citizens and, if we assume that a person is changing his place of residence or place of work, a person can be cut off from the possibility of using the Internet freely and permanently. So it is absolutely wrong that if a person once applied to a court asking to be emailed, to keep it in that mode all the time, if a person has filed a problem, he should have the right to receive documents in paper form. Please comment on the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u29	Thank you. I want to point out and call for correctness in speaking, especially when the person is not present in the room, because he is the head of the state, and I ask for correctness because it causes a feedback during the discussion. Thank you. I bet on the vote of Amendment 94. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:33:42]] For-63 The decision is not made. We're not there yet, we're not there yet, we're not there yet, we're not there yet, we're not there yet, we're not there for 109, we're there for 109, we're there for 109, but the first Birdman has announced 109,
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to put Amendment 109 on the confirmation that was considered by the committee and I ask you not to support it. This amendment lays down time limits for the pre-trial investigation of criminal offences that are calculated from the time the relevant information is entered into the register. In particular, attention! – this amendment is subject to serious and particularly serious crimes, for example, to be investigated over a period of only six months, if they are not investigated during this period, the case is closed. This will definitely cause a collapse in the work of law enforcement agencies, first. And secondly, it will lead to a corrupt component, because investigators will be able not to investigate appropriate criminal offences, not to collect evidence, but simply to close their criminal cases at the end of the year. I'm asking you to put this amendment to confirm and vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u31	Thank you. I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 109. The committee supported it. Who supports Amendment 109, please vote. [[10:35:23]] For-52 The decision is not made. 114th. 115th. 114th. Please, Olena Sotnik. 115th, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u32	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. 115 and 117 revisions, these revisions, they're combined with the only idea, we're proposing to clean up. As we talked about permanent colleges, the same applies to the issue of unified colleges. Because this is nothing more than a corrupt component, an opaque component of the formation of colleges. I would like to make a comment to the head of the committee that prevents the amendments from being made. If he wants to comment, please turn on the microphone and comment. And I ask you to support the amendment and ensure that judges can be selected in colleges with a purely automated system. This will ensure transparency and will, in principle, provide the only objective consideration of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u33	Thank you. I'm putting an amendment to the vote first 115, please make a determination. The committee does not support this. [[10:36:44]] For-63 The decision is not made. And Amendment 117, the committee rejected it, too. Please vote, please identify yourself. The committee turned her down. [[10:37:03]] For-53 The decision is not made. 119th. 120th. 121st. 123rd. Olena Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u34	Thank you very much, Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction, 121 revisions. Today, the authors of this bill suggest that in fact the colleges themselves will decide to refer them to the Great Chamber, perhaps for consideration or not. Thus, we believe that this is a conflict of interest and we suggest that the Great Court of Justice of Ukraine should be given the opportunity if they see a violation or if they see the need to consider a case, the Great Court itself is the highest in the hierarchy. The highest form of case handling, they will be given the opportunity and authority to take these matters away and consider the Great Chamber itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u35	Thank you, you. I'll bet the vote on Amendment 121. The committee has turned her down, please make up your mind. [[10:38:24]] For-56 The decision is not made. 123rd, Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u36	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich, in fact, the problem of unifying judicial practice should be one of the key directions of real judicial reform. Unfortunately, instead of a simple and clear process of unification, instead of simple and understandable mechanisms, we are offered absolute, questionable, so on, questionable and opaque mechanisms for the formation of judicial practice. It was for the formation of judicial practice. One of the tasks was to create. That's why the Great Chamber was created. Next, the mechanisms for referral of cases to the Grand Chamber directly affect the order and procedures for the formation of a single court practice. It is absolutely unacceptable when judges sometimes, unfortunately, and in the Supreme Court, make the same decisions, in fact, directly the opposite. This was to be combated during real judicial reform, not with what we are offered. Please support, 123 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u37	Thank you. 123 amendment, please specify. [[10:39:54]] For-61 The decision is not taken. 126th, Olena Sotnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u38	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. 124 and 126 amendments I recall that the reform of procedural codes was called upon to simplify exactly the approach to the hierarchy and the architecture of the judicial system, including that of simplifying the understanding of people and to go to the focal point, including in the Supreme Court. Instead, we have received the Supreme Court, where we have colleges in which we have chambers: the United Chambers, the Great Houses -- a completely separate large hierarchy that has no idea what it's for. More specifically, I understand why it was created, but it does not exactly make it easier for people to get the truth in court. We think it's the Great. More specifically, the Supreme Court must be perfectly clear about its structure. Therefore, the idea of the United Chambers must be taken away from this codex. Thank you. Please vote on two amendments regarding the exclusion of the United Chambers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u39	Thank you. Thus, 124 amendments were rejected by the committee. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[10:41:26]] For-56 The decision is not taken. And the 126 amendment committee rejected it. I'd like to make up my mind. The committee turned it down. [[10:41:43]] For-53 The decision is not taken. 132rd, 133rd, Odarchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have a specific question to the rapporteur, you say that the Supreme Court will ensure the uniformity of judicial practice in the state, please state what the party will be able to do specifically if a panel of judges in her case makes a decision that is directly contrary to all previous jurisprudence. What exactly can an injured party do under your law? Because you don't have anything in the Code right now. Our amendment is designed to resolve such a situation. The code states that the college itself must admit a mistake and refer the matter to a high - paying hearing. What if she does not?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u41	133 amendment, please identify yourself. The committee turned her down. Please be sure. [[10:43:00]] For-56 The decision is not taken. 139th. 149th. 155th. 159th. You've been blocked by your fellow factions, you've just been blocked by a wall. Please, Olena Sotnik. Do the work in the middle of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u42	Thank you. 155 revisions. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Nevertheless, the amendment refers to the possibility of simplification for people to apply for a case-by-case review. We suggest that we replace "in case of inability to pass a sentence, they may be confirmed by the investigation materials" with "justified by the party protecting the victims in the application for review of a court decision under exceptional circumstances and additions to it." We believe that in this way we are actually expanding the opportunity for people to turn around and base available materials on the possibility of looking at sentences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u43	Thank you. So 159 revisions, please specify. The committee rejected them. That was 155th, Mrs. Olena? Uh, 155th, if you'll excuse me. Please be determined. [[10:44:22]] For-51 The decision is not taken. 159th, Olena Sotnik. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u44	I'm asking you to put 156 on confirmation. I've just reasoned on our position to create more opportunities for people, yet the reasons for the review, and 156 amendments, it's taken into account by the committee, and it makes it more difficult for people to justify it because it's complicated by the necessity and availability of a decision, for example, to close criminal conduct. So I'm asking you to put it on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u45	That's 156 for confirmation. The committee supported her, and the committee calls on everyone to support 156 revisions. Please vote. [[10:45:21]] For-60 The decision is not made. 159th. 160th. 159th, Olena Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u46	Thank you very much. In this case 159 refers to the viewing times and the durations of the possibility, more specifically, the application for a view. In this case, we have a deadline of 30 days. We propose that, given that we have existing standards, including the 459th Criminal Procedural Code, 461 articles of the Criminal Procedural Code, which sets the three-month deadlines, we have no right to aggravate the status of the parties, we have no right to aggravate the status of citizens while protecting their rights. So we suggest that this amendment increase this period to 3 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u47	159 revisions, the committee rejected it. I'd like to make up my mind. It's a committee against it. [[10:46:37]] For-60 The decision is not made. 176th. 173rd. 161th, Olena Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u48	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. 161 revisions. It does apply again to the question of terms, but in this case, apart from what we offer for the general, for the general situation of 3 months, for those who have been given the sentence "for long," we propose not to limit the term at all. This involves, if you remember, Law 2033a, which was adopted by the Supreme Council in its first reading. Unfortunately, though ready for second reading, he is still not in Parliament and it refers to the fact that when the old law, the criminal criminal law of 1960, was in force, people were actually beaten to death, and then people were put in prison, including the charges of life. And today, they don't have the ability to view it. This mechanism would give them this opportunity to look at life sentences.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u49	161 correct. The committee turned her down. Please vote. 161, we define. [[10:48:14]] For-57 The decision is not taken. 173rd Bird. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! Amendment 173, which was taken into account by the committee, I ask you to put it again for confirmation and not support. The amendment proposes to appoint an expert solely on the basis of the decision of the investigating judge, who is actually being initiated by the parties. The parties themselves will not be able to initiate the involvement of experts. And the expert will determine for himself the judge, as will the circle of questions that are referred to the expert, and the existence of a basis for this expertise. We believe that this amendment nullifies the principle of the competition of the parties. Thus, such changes are unacceptable. And they obviously need to be rejected. So I ask you not to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u51	Thank you. I'll bet you 173. The committee supported her. Please vote on who supports it. The committee supports it. Vote. [[10:49:29]] For-38 The decision is not taken. 176th, Captain. 179th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u52	Thank you. 179 revisions. In view of the fact that, in fact, today, if the law comes into force, we feel that it is. The bill, more specifically, we think that the people who went through the first and second institutions should be given the opportunity to look at just like the third. As in the third cassation facility to the Supreme Court. In this regard, we present this 179 - year amendment, which gives people the opportunity to appeal directly to a higher court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u53	179th, please identify yourself. The committee turned her down. Please. [[10:50:28]] For-53 195th. 196. 200th. 202. Let's move on to the next one. We'll get to her. All right, 241, Bird. 241, Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, the committee has taken the amendment into account, but I ask you not to vote for it. This amendment to the criminal process proposes that all the expertise be carried out exclusively in state-owned institutions. This amendment actually creates a monopoly, because we have, you know, this one institution of experts of the KNICE, please Google. In fact, only a given institution will be able to conduct all the expertise. You know what monopolies lead to. Monopolies, in fact, do not lead to improvements in the quality of services, but rather to the limitation of the competition of the parties, different corruption schemes begin, and obviously the parties begin to be dependent on a particular expert institution, which is accordingly within the jurisdiction of a particular ministry. So I ask you not to support this amendment. And I think the committee made a huge mistake considering it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u55	241 revisions, the committee supported it. And I urge you to support the deputies. Please vote 241 for confirmation. [[10:52:18]] For-52 Thank you. 283rd. I'll give it to you guys in a row. 58th, yeah. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then first, Alexeyev first. Please, one minute. 239, Alexiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u56	Andry Volodymyrovich, please place a rebuttal of my rebuttal of 239. Considering that we just didn't confirm 241 revisions, we went back to editing our first reading. In the first reading, I want to remind you that other experts (experts) from the relevant fields of knowledge may also be involved in the conduct of forensic and expert activities. Such an editorial may result in no control, no responsibility, for those who conduct expert studies. In this context, my 239 proposal is to remove the initiative to amend article 7 of the Judicial Experimental Act and leave the editorial in its current form. Please support 239 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u57	Thank you. I'll bet you 239 votes. The committee turned her down. But in this situation, the committee is asking her to maintain balance in the law. So please support Amendment 239. Please vote. [[10:54:12]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. Now, if I'm not mistaken, it's Captain, and then it's Vlasenko. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u58	Thank you. Edited 252 is also included. This is all about the changes that the committee has adopted from some logic regarding the conduct of the expertise. In this case, this refers to special methodological recommendations that also reduce the ability and ability of experts to carry out forensic expertise. So I'm also asking 252 along with the already unconfirmed 109 amendments, which also apply to the limitation of the possibility of an expert being put on validation and not supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u59	I'm betting on confirmation of number 252. The committee supports it. And the committee urges everyone to vote and support it. So 252, please vote. Those who support the committee, please support. Vote. [[10:55:26]] For-65 The decision is not made. Now Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u60	Thank you. Andrew Volodymyrovich. I'm asking for confirmation of 278 revisions. That's what this is about. Well, first of all, the committee first offered us a monopoly of state experts for expertise. And now with this right, the author of the law offers them special salaries that do not correspond to the State Service Act, which is much higher than the salaries of civil servants, to prescribe allowances and pensions to them, there, payments, pardon, no pensions. Supplements, bonuses and other payments at a special size established by the Cabinet of Ministers. So we're back in line against the general trend, we're creating a special class of so-called state experts who will be totally dependent on the state for the formation of these special salaries, supplements, privileges and so on. And for these experts, they planned to create a monopoly so that they could only give expert opinions during criminal trials. So please put it on confirmation and don't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u61	I'll bet on the confirmation number 278. The committee supported her, and the committee calls on everyone to support her. Please vote, please identify yourself. [[10:56:59]] For-41 The decision is not made. 287. Vlasenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u62	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. In fact, this law is implemented. different cost write-offs have been introduced and cost arrest decisions have been made on the basis of different withdrawals, including withdrawals from an automated system of arresting funds, i.e., I find this to be absolutely unacceptable in the current situation. But since this rule was removed by the committee during the discussion, I do not insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u63	Wise. Muro, Mr. Sergei. Next item is 299. 96. Scram. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u64	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, this is an important amendment actually because I propose to exclude completely the changes made to the Ukrainian Law on Access to Decisions. This law proposes the creation of a single, as you know, judicial information telecommunications system and will in fact establish itself in this system, publish names, father and surnames of all natural persons, record their addresses, record their education, region of residence, health, and family relationships. Colleagues, a natural person, actually, will be able to be fully identified by this register. This is, first of all, I'm asking you to look at this committee for the protection of human rights. Secondly, this is contrary to what I believe and in the opinion of many European Convention of Human Rights lawyers, and we will have a huge number of appeals to the European Convention on Human Rights. Please, let us give at least a little professionalism, though a little professionalism in our work, and we will not make matters worse if Ukraine fails to fulfil its human rights obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u65	296 axles. If you'll excuse me, the committee has turned her down, please. [[10:59:13]] For-65 The decision is not made. 297. Please, Scrum, 97th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u66	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, this again refers to the order of registration, the first reading stated that such a register of judicial decisions and its order, its conduct, was approved by the Supreme Council of Justice. Here it is suggested that this be transmitted from the Supreme Council of Justice to the Ministry of Justice. I don't know what the logic was. We have at least some minimum guarantees of the independence of the judiciary, which unfortunately are being killed throughout the project. I'd like to hear Mr. Knazevitch's logic, the logic of the committee and ask him to comment on the amendment, he didn't comment on others, but at least some important things need to be commented on. And, colleagues, once again, I just want to point out that in this bill, these amendments not only limit access to justice, not only does justice, unfortunately, close down, but also very many technical important things that make justice more political and political, but they do not make it independent, as our obligations require, as normal European practice in the European state requires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u67	Thank you. Amendment 297 stands for confirmation, the committee supports it, and the committee considers it. For those who support the committee, please vote in favour of Amendment 297. Vote. [[11:00:47]] For-60 The decision is not made. And 299. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u68	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. All I'd ask is for you to give me your word for confirmation of 281 amendments. So by 299, I actually agree with my colleague, Alona Skrum, that open access to court decisions that will contain all the information, including personal data, is sufficiently questionable in terms of respect for rights, including those envisaged by the European Convention on Human Rights. So it's completely insane and it's not. I mean, when any person can go into a court register and essentially get all the personal data they need, based on the text, the content of the court decision and the information they contain. I would like to remind you that this bill is first allowed to be published in court decisions, including convictions, full personal data, which are wrong. Before that we wrote "person one, person two" and this information was closed to the public. Please support 299 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u69	Let's vote, please, hall, let's say. 299 is now voting. [[11:02:18]] For-64 64 votes, not supported. Now we have 281 revisions. I ask you to keep a closer eye on the voting process, because we'll be in before. Come back. 281 is the amendment of the National MP, I see, Alexeyeva, who was counted by the Committee. National MP Vlasenko puts her on the stand. Please turn on the microphone, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u70	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyrna, for returning to the discussion on the privileges of experts. legal experts who work in state expert bodies. Thus, Amendment 281 is offered in addition to the wages we have already discussed, and they are offered additional leave for up to 15 days. So we have, I say once again, experts are being brought out to a special class and they're being tied to, essentially, the state. And leaving them, in fact, with monopolistic experts in a criminal process that is in itself questionable. They make these experts as dependent as possible on the state, and hence, they are completely bankrupt, including the competitive process. The branch of judicial expertise should also be reformed, but it should not be reformed as proposed by these amendments. Please place 281 on confirmation, and do not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u71	The 281 amendment that the committee has supported and asks for support is confirmed. Please vote. [[11:04:09]] For-74. 74. Correction not supported. 302nd, Yvchenko, does not insist. 307, Yvchenko, don't insist. 310th, Yvchenko, does not insist 311, Yvchenko, does not insist. 314, Yvchenko, does not insist. 315, no insistence. 300. We're moving on now, dear fellows. 323rd, Vlasenko. Please, microphone to the National MP Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear Irina Volodymyrna, the 323 amendment proposes to exclude the corresponding changes that have to do with the increase in court rates. Unfortunately, we did not once mention that all the codes introduced the ideology of the court were for the rich, not for the people, but for the people who live in Ukraine today. I realize that Peter Poroshenko is a dollar billionaire and does not care how Ukrainian citizens feel, 60 percent of whom are outside the poverty line, according to the official report of the United Nations. I'm not going to talk about how these codes make payment in advance for certain procedural actions. So little is suggested by this code to double the rate of court fees, which is unacceptable in this situation. On the contrary, even poor people need to be given the freeest access to justice. Please support 323.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u73	Thank you. I want to go back to the observation of the chairman of the session, the speaker of Parliament, Andrey Parovia, and urge all the amendment authors not to make any personal or political adjustments, to go solely as amended. Three hundred. Especially if you're not in the room, you can't answer. 323, please don't yell, 323 amendments, Mr. Vlasenko. Please vote. [[11:06:41]] For-63 Not supported. Next 324, Odarchenk microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. In order to comment on this amendment, you have to explain to people what? Now you're under the terms of what's called judicial reform, doing everything you can to make the courts unreachable. The courts after your reform will be for the rich only. So let's just imagine for a moment the ordinary Ukrainian who was sued by a bank. This simple Ukrainian didn't get a subpoena because under your law, he was published on a site he doesn't know about, and the bank pulled 5,000 dollars out of it. So, under your law, in order to charge this decision, the Ukrainian has to pay -- pay attention! Two thousand and 400 dollars for the state, and for the cassation complaint, pay attention! - Three thousand 200 dollars at the cost of a lawsuit of 5,000 dollars. Do you understand what nonsense you're suggesting here? Why in the country of the courts if no one is able to address them? What kind of justice are we talking about here, if that's what we're talking about?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u75	Thank you. 324 amendment of Odarchenka People's Deputy. Vote, please. [[11:08:13]] For-60 60 votes, not supported. Next up is the 403rd National MP. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've already announced. Then we'll come back. 403, Krulko, Yvchenko, Evtushek, don't insist. Please, 327th. Now let me see what this is. Now, now, dear fellows! There were no amendments, but. [[B in m in s a l in]] I heard! Now we're moving on it. We're moving on unconfirmed. Now! I can hear you. 327th, this is the Janicki National MP, the amendment, it was counted. He insists on making the 327th amendment to the People's Chamber of Scrum. Please, microphone to the People's Deputy Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u76	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, I ask you to pay attention to this whole chapter and this amendment, because I was present in the working group, I have a transcript of the working group of the Committee of Legal Policy and Justice. 2017, where we had a compromise on the committee in court. And the compromise was in three things: that we don't raise the court's rate in either the first instance or the second or the third, and instead we increase the maximum to 350 minimum. And second, very important, we're removing from the list of entities that don't pay court fees, but they're only dispossessing the population, the State Pension Fund, the Social Insurance Fund, the Labour Loss Fund of the Ministry of Social Policy. I have a transcript where Mr. Knazevitch says we're making this compromise -- we don't raise the court rate, we set the ceiling. Next. Do we not agree to raise the court’s rate? Yes, we agree. Next. Who would offer such an offer so as not to raise the stakes of the judicial congregation? All vote unanimously in favour of this proposal, and then the law raises the court’s rates during appeals and at the time of the cassation. Mr. Ruslan, please take a look, except for the first instance.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u77	Thank you for your clarification. We're putting it on confirmation right now. [[Noise Nodes]] Oh, I didn't hear. Then 354 amendments, this is the national deputy of Janicki, it was counted by the committee. Please, Vlasenka's microphone. We need confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u78	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyrna, we are talking again about the impossibility of raising court rates. This rate proposes to increase the number of citizens in court at the time of the court’s appeal. The only thing that, Your Honor Irina Volodymyrna, I can't help but react to your previous remark when I said that the author of this bill is a dollar billionaire, Poshenko, who disrespects Ukrainian citizens. I didn't quite realize what I was saying. Is that not the author of this law? Isn't Dusty a dollar billionaire? Does he love Ukrainian citizens? I said everything right, and there's no offense to Dusty here, because all this information corresponds to reality, is true, because he's acting in the President's office repeatedly confirmed it as a person who happened to be in that position. So I'm asking you to set up a 354 law and not confirm it, because, again, it supports the ideaology of creating courts for the rich, which is introduced in this law practically in every article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u79	Once again, I urge the amendment speakers to demonstrate the European quality of the amendments, not to resort to political characteristics and electoral rhetoric, but to speak on amendments. We're asking 354 to confirm the amendment at the request of the national MP Vlasenko. Please. The subject of the legislative initiative is, not a deputy, but a president. But I happen to be. [[11:12:13]] For-61 61 National MP. The amendment didn't go through. We're moving on. Now, I'll find her. National MP Vlasenko asks for the amendment of the 375 Janicki National MP, who was considered by the committee, to be confirmed. Please, it's Vlasenko's microphone. 375th, it's for the committee's head to record.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u80	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. While reaffirming and following the European principle of introducing amendments, I would like to point out once again that the bill is authored by Poshenko, not by national MPs. Unfortunately, the powder is a dollar billionaire. The powder is, unfortunately, abusing Ukrainian citizens and ideologies in this bill as the author prolonged the creation of courts for the rich. And it's absolutely not political rhetoric, it's not pre-election rhetoric, it's just a statement of existing facts. Dustenko, a billionaire, disrespects Ukrainian citizens. Please do not support, place on confirmation, and do not support 375 amendments, which completely creates courts for the rich and on the orderly increase the rates of the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u81	Let's bet on the request of the national MP 374 of the amendment that the committee has supported and ask for a vote in favour. Please identify yourself, 374th. 374th, Ruslan. No, no, no, it was. Three hundred and seventy. Now, just a minute. [[11:14:07]] For-57 It was 375 revisions, and 57 votes. Next. What's next? We've got another 403. The authors do not insist. 404th, don't insist. 405, don't insist. 415th, Odarchenko. Please, the microphone. I already announced, 415 Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Honorable colleagues, few of which are substantially increasing in the judicial congregation, are now a completely unjust system for paying court fees for the charges of acquittal. At present, the court’s rulings make up a thousand six hundred dollars for the charges. But it is not possible for this court to return, even if you have won your appeal. So the court makes a mistake, the court lets you break the law, but in order to remove it, you have to pay a thousand six hundred bracelets that no one is going to pay you back. And if there's a thousand six hundred dollars for someone here, that's not money, that's half the monthly income for Ukrainians. We suggest that the judicial assembly for the charges be brought against the court in the event of the satisfaction of the complaint. Please vote on this completely objective and logical amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u83	415 repairs to Odarchenka. Vote, please. [[11:16:04]] For-65 He's not. 414, Vlasenko. I just missed her, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u84	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. Amendment 414 refers to the following. We are asked that if the parties to the trial have essentially concluded a peace agreement or the court has decided on the matter of return, or the plaintiff has accepted the suit, more faithfully, the defendant has accepted the suit, or the case has been decided in some other way without the court being involved, we are asked that only 50 percent of the judicial congregation will then be returned. What's the point? We have to pay back all the money. If the case was essentially settled without a trial, if the parties themselves had reached agreement, if the parties had found an opportunity to understand essentially before the trial began, essentially all costs should be reimbursed to the parties. And there's no problem with that, I think that would be normal. Moreover, the court’s fees for the conduct of legal proceedings are increasing, so on and so forth. Please support 414 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u85	There is a room for 414 corrections. Please. [[11:17:32]] For-39 39 votes. No, no, no, no, no. Next up is 416th. Scum microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u86	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, once again, I insist that at the meeting of the Committee of Legal Policy, a decision has been taken by all members of the Committee on the non-increasing of court fees in exchange for another compromise. Instead, the appeal rate rises from 110 percent to 150 percent, and the cassation rate increases from 120 percent to 200 percent. If this is a technical error, I'm asking you to correct it. If this is a violation where the decision of the committee does not correspond to the final text or vice versa, it is a violation of the Rules to be terminated. Now essentially, I'm going to fix it. I propose that those who have applied for a copy of the court’s decision in those cases that have been dealt with by courts located in a temporarily occupied territory or in an ATO area be released from the payment of the court’s fees. Because it's going to be honest, it's going to be the right thing to do. If you really need a copy of such a statement for the first time in court, you will be freed from payment to the court. If you already need a copy of such a judicial decision, you will pay the court. But there are many such cases at present. And I think that the courts that ruled in the temporarily occupied territory, the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u87	Let us vote on Amendment 416. [[11:19:02]] For-68 68 votes. Not supported. The next amendment is 420, Captain. Will you insist? Olena Sotnik does not insist. Let's move on. The following amendments are made: 433, 435. Eutushka does not insist. 441. Don't insist. 443rd. Don't insist. Now. Now. Now. Schrome, 447. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u88	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, the problem with this huge biggest bill in the history of Ukraine is that it is contrary to other laws of Ukraine and these contradictions have not been eliminated. A lot of the provisions of this law run counter to the State Service Act, some of which my colleague Vlasenko talked about, and others we talked about a week ago when we were considering this law. How these contradictions will then be fulfilled and how they will be resolved to no one understandably, sadly. Here, too, we have a possible contradiction with the State Service Act, where it was stated that a decision made by a civil servant was contrary to the findings of the application of the relevant rule of law in the Supreme Court rulings and could be made immediately by a public official. That is, the civil servant must know all the conclusions of the Supreme Court, all the application of the rule of law by the Supreme Court. And that's what we did on the task force and on the committee. But there are many things, unfortunately, we have not cleaned up and they are contrary to the Law on State Service and other laws of Ukraine. How this is going to settle the question is incomprehensible, it's going to create big threats and gaps, and just, well, just.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u89	Vote, please Amendment 447. Please. [[11:21:03]] For-64 64 votes. Not supported. 465th, Captain. Sidorovich, please, microphone. I've already announced 465, and then we'll come back to you, Olena. Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u90	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Unit. Dear colleagues, we are now considering very important procedural codes, but in addition to making just decisions, it is extremely important to create an effective mechanism for implementing these judgments. Moreover, the European Court of Human Rights says that it is a violation of article 6 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. If the state does not guarantee the execution of court decisions and we have a colossal problem. What does my amendment say? In line with the philosophy that has been put into implementing reform, I see the misunderstandings set out in article 9 of the Law on Executive Conduct, which speaks of the only register of debtors and the actions that will be carried out by the appropriate persons. That's why we need to rewrite this and force government and private contractors to check the situation of the debtor's property change, and put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u91	Thank you. I've got the position. Please determine 465 of Sidorovich's revision. [[11:22:38]] For-61 Not counted. Please. 456th? Now, I'm going to find her to tell you what she's talking about. I understand, I want to find her, I can see it's not confirmed. Now, dear fellows. The 456 amendment is the Janicki People's Deputy, it was taken into account. People's deputy Shkrum requires confirmation. Please, it's Scrum's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u92	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, as you know, this bill issued by the committee came up with 54 pages of the comments of the General Legal Department, which is one of the interesting points of view. So what's he talking about? So the order of operation and maintenance of the Single State Register of Executive Documents is established by the State Court Administration in conjunction with the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Colleagues, the problem is that the Constitution of Ukraine and legislation do not provide for the adoption of any joint acts by two State authorities. How this is going to happen is unclear as to the Constitution, and it is not clear what it means to establish order jointly by two state authorities, the State Court Administration and the Ministry of Justice. Here's the whole story of this huge bill that's not worked out, where we're going to run around Europe, which is going to be unconstitutional and illegal, and how it's going to be done, too, colleagues. We should at least make such mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u93	Please turn on the microphone to the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u94	I have to explain, since I have heard this phrase several times. The point is that the state register, the only state registry of implementing documents, is not judicial decisions, but executive documents. The Ministry of Justice is now the holder of this register, since they have the executive service in their subordination. And the left-hand side, more than 90 percent of this register, is acts that fall within the powers of the Ministry of Justice, the other part that is small, really applies to the State Judicial Administration. And that's why we offered to compromise so that they could do it in agreement, in common. But it's owned by the Ministry of Justice, it's been happening for years, it's been happening for years, so otherwise it just can't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u95	Please, we have heard the position of the committee, and the committee is asking for support for the amendment of 456 Janicko, which the committee supported. I'm asking you to vote, colleagues. The committee's asking for support. [[11:25:19]] For-55 55 deputies supported her. Let's move on. 472 amendments, this is national deputy Shkrum. Please, she's got a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u96	Thank you. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. First, thank you to the committee head for explaining, such explanations would be useful for us, I may disagree with them, but thank you for echoing this position. As far as I'm concerned, 472. I propose that paragraph 1 of the proposed regulations be deleted at all. This is what my self-help colleague was talking about about, what I don't understand at all, this paper basically says that the introduction, the introduction of the implementing documents, is going to be the basis for starting the execution. In doing so, we have a list of legal facts that can serve as a basis for enforcement, and they are, in fact, contained in article 26 of the Law on executive conduct. This impression is that the introduction of these documents into the Single State Register is already the basis for the start of the execution process. We have to write these things very clearly because we can have both abuse of rights and an absolute error in the exercise of this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u97	Thank you. We're voting for 472 of the Shkrum amendment. [[11:26:46]] For-54 54 votes. Not supported. 476th. My hairpiece, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear Irina Volodymyr. The author of this bill, Peter Poroshenko, had little to do with the fact that he had set up a completely looting court, little to do with the fact that he had imposed a total thiefly restriction on the rights of the parties to the trial, little to do with the imposition of fines for the alleged violation. For some abuse of rights, some violation of the courts, which will be used entirely arbitrarily by the courts. And so Peter Poroshenko, in his bill, proposed an automated fund-raiser mechanism, and he wanted everything to be automatically taken away from everyone. With all the inadequacy of the legal system in place, with the entire unreformed executive service, everyone understands that it is a tool of pressure. And only because of the pressure of opposition MPs during the committee's consideration did this issue get removed, and that's why I don't insist on the vote 476 amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u99	Moving on: next 480, National Deputy Vlasenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u100	Thank you. Yeah, that too. This amendment is also automatic. With an automatic cost arrest system and the fact that all these registers are ordered by the Ministry of Justice, and the system of automated arrest of funds is part of the Single State Register of Executive Documents. I'll point out again: it was Peter Dusty's idea to automatically take money from people, not just to bring these things in for less than 160,000, less than 160,000, when people don't even know about court hearings, and then they have to automatically take those costs. Fortunately, the committee was probably the only moment in which the committee listened to the opposition MPs' position and removed the issue, today, from the text of this document. But we will follow the final vote that they will make, then which they will not make. I don't insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u101	Next amendment 504, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u102	Again, 504 amendments apply to the electronic circulation of documents. I've done it many times, and I've told you these bills. What this bill makes people hostage or entrapment of the electronic circuit system. If you say once that you are ready to email a court in electronic form, you will continue to contact the court only in electronic form, even if you change your options, even if you do not have access to the Internet, even if you do not have a computer and so on, and so on and so forth. But you will be obliged to contact the court only by electronic means, you will not be able to submit written documents, nor will you receive proper written documents. This is unacceptable. So we're talking about that the court should give the party the opportunity to issue the necessary documents in writing. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u103	We're voting for the 504th amendment, Your Honor. [[11:30:36]] For-56 Not supported. Next 511, Vlasenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u104	In fact, the execution procedure, the execution procedure is also a very important element, it's not part of the trial directly, but it's an element of the court's case, because it's the final part. The final part of any court dispute. Then, too, this procedure should be sufficiently and clearly regulated and should take place in such a way that the rights and rights of the debtor and the rights of the retractor are protected, guaranteed and can be realized. We clearly understand that in our unreformed system of executive services there will be abuse, the mechanisms proposed by this law that increase the field of abuse. Our amendment will reduce this field, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, the National MP Vlasenko has just explained his amendment and now I ask the Hall to decide on 511 amendments. Please. [[11:31:57]] For-57 57 votes. It doesn't take the necessary amount. Let's move on. 529 amendment, National Deputy Vlasenko. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u106	Thank you, Reverend Irina Volodymyrni. I understand that when the chairman sees the name Timoshenko or Vlasenko as the authors of the amendments, she feels that these amendments are not taken into account. I understand that this is the only amendment that was taken into account by author Yulia Timoshenko. So I am grateful for the word, but I have no reason not to support it or to speak on it. Thank you very much, Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u107	Someone put adjustments into the table I'm following and wrote that it's not counted. That must have been your sympathies, Mr. Vlasenko. You don't have to put her on confirmation, do you? [[B in m in s a l in]] Counted? I can put it. Please, the next amendment to 531, it's not exactly counted, it's the national deputy Shkrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u108	Alona's Scrum, "The Fatherland" faction. I'd really like to put 536 in, if you don't mind. It's more important than that is the amendment to the Act on Executive Conduct. I propose to delete paragraph 23 because what does paragraph 23 say? He says that, in fact, on his own initiative, the performer. He may arrest money held in bank accounts or deposits or other financial institutions to a person who is in debt to the debtor. The question is, colleagues who aren't regulated, what's the amount of money, what's the number of accounts. There may be a huge abuse, because we don't prescribe it in the law, when, in fact, a small debt is being arrested, there is a debt, for example, of $300 or $400, but there is an arrest by a public executioner on all the person's accounts, on all the sums in these person's accounts. And that's not against the law, because this is an editorial that is now defined by the committee and given, in fact, by the President's Administration, it allows that. And I'm assuming that even that was the goal. And that needs to be definitely cleaned up right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u109	Needs an explanation committee head. I want to emphasize to the hall that we are now discussing not the announced 531 amendment on which Elena's Shrine insists, but 536th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u110	Can I talk to you? So you're asking us to remove that amendment that we took into account Vlasta and Timoshenko? Because it's covered according to all the rights that were, starting with this 526th and leaving everything as it is, i.e. not to delete the changes to article 48? Do I get it right? No questions, then. No questions asked. Then we go back to the fact that it wasn't Vlasenko who insisted.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u111	You're done, aren't you? No, they're just distracting, I'm sorry, they're distracting. 536. Put to the vote, it's the People's Chamber of the Skrum Amendment, please. Vote. No, 536 is not a confirmation, it's an amendment. Dear colleague, this was Mrs. Schrum's amendment. Not for confirmation. [[11:35:24]] For-60 Sixty votes. Mrs. Sotnik, we haven't gotten to that amendment you're asking for confirmation. We are now scheduled for a rejection of the National MP's title, 537. And I'm asking him to turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u112	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. I just want to remind the honourable head of the committee that we are discussing amendments to the first reading. Corrections cannot be corrected. Therefore, there is no need to manipulate, nor has the previous amendment been confirmed. Amendment 537 also applies to similar issues, when the blocking of accounts takes place in full volume, it is unacceptable. The procedures proposed by the committee today are such that they essentially violate the right of debtors to manage their own funds. Because if you're owed two hundred dollars and you're arrested for two thousand dollars on account, it's wrong and unacceptable, 537 amendments are aimed at that. And I'm asking you to support 537 amendments, because, I say again, the ideology that's laid down in this law: to take everything away, to arrest everyone, it's probably meant to make the court an institution and a tool of repression, not to create normal conditions for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u113	Please identify a room for 537 corrections. [[11:37:05]] For-59 Not supported. For the head of the committee: Mr. Knazevitch, the previous amendment we voted on was an amendment to Mrs. Shkrum, 536. This is her amendment, not her for confirmation, but her that was rejected. Let's move on, now. 541. Vlasenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u114	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. 541 The amendment is designed not to give the Supreme Council of Justice the right to uphold the position of the One Court. Court Information Automated System. You know, unfortunately, the High Council of Justice doesn't work as an independent impartial body today. Today it is. That's where people were gathered mostly, I emphasize, mostly people who are completely controlled and loyal to Peter Dustenk and his followers. This has nothing to do with an honest, just judicial body. So to give them the opportunity to confirm the position of a single court automated system, I think there's a little bit, a little bit of that exaggeration, yes. And what's more, we've already had experience when NAZC approved a single declaration system, and we've seen what that came into. So I think I suggested other amendments to the other procedures and procedures. the approval of this system. I think it would be right if it was approved by the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u115	Yes, 541 corrections, please, please identify yourself. [[11:38:53]] For-65 65 votes, your amendment is not supported. With regard to amendment 542, which you are asking for confirmation, Helen Sotnik asked her to give her word for three minutes earlier. Please, Mrs. Sotnik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u116	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I'm talking about 543 amendments. And that's why I'm going to speak with her. You know, if you want to find treachery, it's normal, under the rules of this House, to look for it in the Final and Transitional Positions. So in the Final and Transitional Situations, the first amendment is actually the committee's defense of Janukovic's courts, the days of Yanukovic, who were at the moment giving the qualification exams. And actually this amendment, which is considered by the committee, allows these judges to skip the competition. Because it establishes that they have scored more than 75 percent of the points during the exams to become effective in the Courtship and Status of Judges Act, they're not actually going through an updated competition and they're not going through a test. So you're actually covering Janukovich's courts and leaving them in the system. Please don't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u117	This was the amendment of the Janicki National MP, the 543 Janicki Deputy. And the committee supported her. Please identify the room with an amendment, bet on confirmation. The committee supported her. Please vote. This is the 543 Janicka Amendment and Alexeieva. Now, I see, I see. I'm sorry. [[11:40:48]] For-42 42 deputies supported her. Next. 542th National MP Vlasenko demands that the amendment of the Janicki People's Deputies, which the Committee has taken into account, be confirmed. Vlasenko's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u118	Thank you. This amendment of Mr. Janicki introduces a mechanism for swearing to a witness during a disciplinary procedure. Well, in fact, the very institution of criminal responsibility of a witness is essentially in quasi-judicial procedures (because a disciplinary case is a quasi-judicial procedure, not a court-martial) is very questionable at all. So the quasi-judicial procedure is the criminal responsibility of witnesses as such. It's basically wrong. But, in addition to this argument, this issue was not considered in the first reading, and then this amendment does not meet the requirements of Article 116 of the Rules, and then I ask it not to support it, to put it for confirmation and not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u119	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone to the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u120	I would still like us to read the text honestly before each other and look at part of the part of the seventh article 49, to which we have these changes, where it is clearly written that there is a reporter, a judge, a complainant, their representatives — attention! - and witnesses. And all we do is make sure that these witnesses do not give false testimony, because if witnesses as an institution exist, they should be warned that false testimony is impossible to give. And now they're completely irresponsible in their testimony. What is wrong with the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u121	The Committee requests that it vote in favour of Amendment 542. And I'm putting it to confirm the amendment 542, which the committee supported. Please identify and support the hall. The committee head is asking for support. [[11:42:59]] For-64 Then the National MP Vlasenko (I hear) insists on putting on confirmation 547, which we are now looking for in order to say whose amendment this was and what was the committee's decision here. Now, just a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, I get it, they demand a bet on. 547 amendments, it's big enough. Now, dear fellows. 547th. This is the amendment of the national deputy of Janick and Alexeieva, who was counted by the committee. The owner asks for confirmation. Vlasenko's microphone, then the committee's head. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u122	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. This is a further violation, a direct violation of article 116 of the Rules, which resulted from Peter Poroshenko, the author of the bill, unlawfully merging all codes into a single bill. But once again, unfortunately, these issues were not discussed during the first reading, and then, according to the 116th Rules, they cannot be considered, subject to amendments and subject to consideration by the committee. Similar amendments had already been made to me under other codes and were not supported by a session hall. And I'm going to ask you to do the exact same thing with this amendment, put it on confirmation and not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u123	Please, Ruslan Kniezewicz microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u124	Well, I don't just want to make it up to you, but I want to point out to the session room that not only did we discuss these issues in detail, but also in the adoption decree on the basis of the bill, the second paragraph of the bill, the Parliament has made an unprecedented commission to the Committee on Legal Policy to draft a bill with separate chapters on amendments to individual codes and laws that emerge from these codes with separate "Transitional and Final Positions". So now, by putting these points on the line, you're going back to the original edition that you're so unfortunately criticizing. It will be determined, please, because if we now balance this law, the first reading will really work. So what do we want? Do we want these to be separate laws or do we want them to be what you so unfortunately criticize? I think these things can't be allowed, we have to go back to the Transitional Regulations, because otherwise this law won't work, it's not going to be what's balanced, it's going to be ineffective. Thank you. Please support this section and this edit.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u125	Thank you for your clarification. And now we're asking for confirmation of the amendment of 547 people's deputies Aleksiev and Janick. The chairman of the committee and the committee are asking her to support her. Please vote. Please be determined. [[11:46:10]] For-84 84 national deputies supported the amendment. Next 553. Odarchenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u126	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Now I think it's clear to everyone that these bills are going to make people's access to the judicial branch worse, make the courts more closed, cloudyly expensive. But now it looks like there are some colleagues in the room who are willing to vote in favour of these laws, because they have agreed with the President who has agreed to delay the establishment of an automatic cost arrest system. This has been presented as a compromise, but in fact, your esteemed colleagues, they have deceived you, this system in a slightly altered way will be implemented through legal acts, but they will be controlled not by the courts, but by the State Executive Service. This system will allow the immediate blocking of any enterprise's funds even without a court decision, to stop any business that wants to stop the President's Administration. So think about what you're going to vote for today if you vote. And on my right, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u127	Let's move on. 554th. People's deputy Shkrum. It's your repair.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u128	Thank you, colleagues. I'm asking you to put amendment 549 on confirmation. I'm just having a hard time yelling. Unfortunately, the chairman can't hear me. And, fellows, I have to say that this bill is absolutely unprecedented both by the number of amendments, and by the number of codes, and by the number of bills that make these changes, to it the vast number of observations by the General Legal Administration, probably the largest in history, so that I will insist on a stenographer as a national MP, so that even if we adopt it in the second reading, we will certainly consider it in the third reading. Because that number of imbalances now, and the number of the opposite things, as recorded in the various legislative acts that are not regulated in this bill, are simply going to put a huge gap in the right and we will not be able to find any, at least, balance during the trial process. So I'm going to demand a third reading, and I'm going to ask you to support me and the chairman, and Mr. Chairman of the committee, because it's precisely the third reading that the Rules tell us if there's a point to the bill, if there's a point to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u129	National deputy Shkrum does not insist on his 554th amendment. At the same time, she insists that we put the amendment to 549. Ruslan, this is the amendment of the national MP Janick and Alexeyev, which we now place on confirmation. Are you going to comment on 549? Committee head, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u130	I don't know what to comment on here because we just didn't confirm this and now there's just no chapter. Alona proposes changes to a section that is not confirmed, so there is no point in putting it on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u131	Let's move on. Then 561 amendments, national deputy Odarchenko. Please. It's 561 Odarchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u132	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we now have the Supreme Court of Ukraine, which has a large number of cases involving violations of the uniformity of judicial practice. Now you're proposing that all these cases be referred to a panel of courts in one of the newly created court-martials. But you contradict yourself because according to your law, colleges do not deal with cases where there is a contradiction in court practice. Moreover, you point out that these statements will be considered by a college in written conduct. We suggest that cases in which the Supreme Court has failed to reach a decision be referred to the Grand Court. I'm asking you to put our vote to a vote, it's logical, and it'll allow you to quickly solve a large number of things that have not been considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u133	We're going to fix 561, this is Odarchenka's amendment. Please, colleagues. [[11:50:45.]] For-45 45 deputies. Amendment 561 not confirmed. 562nd, Odarchenko. Don't insist. 563rd, Odarchenko. He insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. At present, the courts of the cassation plant have been catastrophically overloaded. At the same time, there are more than 30,000 civil cases pending before the Supreme Administrative Court, and about a similar number, with up to 100 judges in these courts. Now you're proposing this load to be translated into 20, 25 judges in each of the new court of cassation. When do people wait for justice? I don't understand. When will these matters, even theoretically, be considered? Five, 10 years later, how much in Ukraine will be paid for our winnings in the European Court of Justice? In this amendment, we propose a mechanism to speed up the handling of case-related matters that remain unsettled over a long period of time. Please put our vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u135	That's 566's, right? 563rd, I'm sorry, I'm already confused. 563 amendments to the vote, this is the Odarchenka amendment. [[11:52:29]] For-47 47 votes, not supported. National MP Vlasenko, requesting confirmation from 559, this is the amendment of the National MP Janicki, supported by the committee. I'm asking for a microphone, Vlasenko, 559, Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u136	Thank you, Reverend Irina Volodymyr! But once again we are offered in this amendment by Janicko, Alexeyev, at the time of the introduction of the law to consider. More faithfully, at the beginning of the single judicial system, we are offered to count off some publications in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. I want to remind you that this idea was given to Ukraine by Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic and Mr. Pshonka, when they passed the law at the time, through Parliament, the Rehabilitation Act in Majdan, then they wanted to tie it to some publications that the Attorney General's Office would do. From a legal point of view, to that, there are a lot of questions, I understand that the committee head can now say that this is part of a chapter that we have in fact already removed without confirming the amendment, but for the sake of the purity of the experiment, I'm asking for this amendment to be confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u137	Comment by the committee head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u138	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich, for being able to predict what I'm going to say, but I want to say something else. You see, please, the text of what was voted in the first reading and yours, and the one that the committee took into account, the difference in three words, in two, more precisely. In the first reading, the words "entering into force," we change to the words "entering into action," as proposed by the Legal Authority. You think we need to go back to the concept of getting things right, except Alona Skrum insisted that we put things into practice rather than insist. That's why we don't mind it becoming effective, but it's illiterate, in terms of legal engineering law, if you insist on it, well that's your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u139	Please vote, the committee is asking for 559 amendments, asking for a vote in favour. 559th, the committee wants to vote in favour. It's for confirmation. Once again, this is for Janick and Alexiev's confirmation. [[11:54:44]] For-56 56 votes not supported. Next up is 556. Odarchenko. He insists. Microphone, Odarchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u140	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Today, the desire of the authors of the law to create such a judicial branch of power, which will be completely controlled, to make an unapproachable judicial branch of power for the common people on the road, simply goes beyond all reasonable limits. In 25 years, some court practice had been established in Ukraine, and lawyers had planned their work and made arrangements. Now, the President proposes that everything that has been done be abandoned without even knowing where it was good, where it was bad. He proposes not to pay attention to any court decisions that existed prior to this completely inconvenient reform. Our amendment proposes to oblige the new Supreme Court to take into account the position of the Supreme Court of Ukraine when it is introduced. When making decisions. Please put our vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u141	We're voting for 566 amendments, colleagues. This is Odarchenka's amendment. [[11:56:10]] For-48 Not supported. The head of the Supreme Council announces an extension of the meeting for 15 minutes in the morning, asked. Well, we're moving on. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u142	Colleagues, this is: for 15 minutes I continue to work until 12:15, this is a meeting, and this is stipulated, this is allowed until 12:15. Colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u143	At 12:15 we can also continue our meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u144	Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please take your emotions off. We have a chance now. Go through all the revisions and allow the committee to analyze our weekly work. Our weekly job. And that's when it's gonna be. I'll announce a committee meeting, it'll take place on the third floor. And now I'm going to keep working for 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u145	580 repairs, Shurum. Don't insist. 581st, Levechenko. Don't insist. 590th Sidorovich. He insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u146	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self - Help Unit. I would like to draw your attention to some of my fellow national MPs who are now dealing with other matters than those related to this bill. The problem in this amendment is the following. There is an institution such as a lawyer, without which the protection of rights will soon be impossible not only in the Supreme Court but also in the appeal. In principle, an institution such as a lawyer is called upon in general to protect the rights of interest in the courts. What is the point in this case? Article 60 of the Code of Administrative Justice introduces the correct concept of "limitation of attorney's powers", which should be stated in the warrant. But the warrant, the form of it, is approved by the National Association of Lawyers of Ukraine under the Law on Bar and Bar. And in this case, it is necessary to add a point where the National Association of Ukrainian Lawyers is obliged, within a month from the date of entry into force of this law, to bring the form of a warrant into line. Otherwise, the lawyers don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u147	Please vote for 590 of Sidorovich's amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who doesn't want to work. You know, we continue at 12 o'clock a.m. every day for 15 minutes, a meeting. This was after 115 revisions. [[11:58:47]] For-59 59. There's two left.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u148	Message. Colleagues, we've consulted with the committee head, we're still not getting through until 12:15, and that's not in principle. So at 12 I'm going to announce a committee meeting, Mr. Ruslan. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, we are now. We have two revisions left to the previous chapter. We'll go through two revisions and the last chapter -- after the break, like that. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u149	Thank you very much. 590. Not supported, 59 votes. 591s, Schrum. Don't insist. 593, Odarchenko. He insists. And then one more amendment only. I heard. 593.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u150	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that this law proposes the introduction of the so-called electronic judiciary. But you're giving it back to some pocket contractor who's going to do something like a register of declarations for a few hundred million people's money -- it's just as convenient and reliable. And this is going to have to be used by both judges, and the parties to the cases, because of the incapacity of this system of things, there's going to be cases where innocent people will stay behind bars, entrepreneurs will lose money, people will take property. We offer a simple thing: mandatory public testing of this system. But you're afraid of everything that the word "public" is, because public control points to the freeness of this whole system that you're going to introduce.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u151	593 amendments, we vote, this is Odarchenka's amendment. The committee turned her down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Your colleague already warned you, he's faster. [[12:00:50]] For-48 48 votes for. And, honourable colleagues, the last amendment to this eighth amendment, is 595 amendments to the national MPs of Janick and Alexeyev, supported by the committee, but the national deputy Vlasenko and Odarchenko demand confirmation. 595. Vlasenko's microphone, then the committee's head. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u152	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. The point is that we are offered transitional positions to recognize that it is no longer in force by this law – the Law on the Limitation of Costs for Legal Assistance in Civil and Administrative Matters. I mean, once again, they're proposing, essentially, to remove the limits on the compensation that the losing party will pay to the winning party for legal aid. In a situation full of, in fact, the poverty of Ukrainian citizens is another repressive method, taking into account the ideology enshrined in the code, which is, in fact, the remuneration of a lawyer, a defender, a representative is unlimited, which will in fact seriously impact the financial situation of Ukrainian citizens who will go to court and then limit the ability of Ukrainian citizens to defend their rights in court. We believe that this is unacceptable in today’s situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u153	Committee head, your comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u154	Thank you. In principle, I have already spoken. This again refers to the "transitional and final clauses," just another bill. Guys, the situation is unprecedented, if we don't confirm this right now, it means that we need to react urgently. I think the committee's gonna have to meet for a break right now. I invite all members of the committee to take part in the meeting and determine how we should proceed. Because the bill actually gets a look without "transitional and closing positions", which makes it impossible to take effect, to put whole chapters of this bill into effect, that is, new texts of the codes. So we're going to have to react quickly, because that's not how we can vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u155	Thank you. 595. The committee's asking for support. And please vote. The committee's asking for confirmation. Let's vote, 595ths, vote. [[12:03:28]] For-79 The decision is not made. So, colleagues, I want to let you know that after the break, we'll move on to the last chapter. It's got a total of 65 rights. So we're going to be able to go through it quite intensely. Now I'm asking you to gather the Committee of Legal Policy on the third floor here in the hall to analyze the work that was done. We have no right to go to a balanced bill. And so the committee has to determine which rights we have to go back to so that the bill doesn't conflict with itself within the law. So I'm asking the committee to do some intense but productive work during the break. And I'm calling it a 30-minute break. At 12:30, I ask everyone to come to the hall to continue our work. And about 13 hours, we're going to go to the vote. I ask all the heads of factions to come to the hall at 12:30 p.m. and prepare to vote for the longest bill in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you. At 12:30, we meet in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u156	Time spent for a break is over. Please come into the hall and prepare for further work. So, colleagues, I want to remind you that we're looking at the last correlation table. It's got 65 discarded rights left. And we go over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again. And 7 orders, National Deputy Odarchenko. Is he insisting? No, it's not. 13th. Does it insist, Vlasenka? He insists. 16th. Please, Odarchenko. 16th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Regrettably, in addition to the destruction of citizens’ access to acquittal, the authorities decided to deprive the people and the courts of appeal. Under this law, appeals courts in the areas will be eliminated, and new appeals courts will be eliminated in several areas. So it's going to take a person to get justice to go 200 to 300 kilometers. It's a waste of time, it's a waste of time, it's a waste of time. As criminal cases are handled, it is not clear when prisoners are to be taken. All of this is so that, in addition to the judges of the Supreme Court, the authorities can appoint all the new judges of the Court of Appeal. Why do you have so many assignments? Why? Why can't you stop? You are condemning Ukraine to lawlessness. We propose to preserve the appeals courts in the areas of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u158	Thank you. So I'm voting on amendment 16, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please identify yourself. [[12:37:54]] For-36 The decision is not made. 17th. Please, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u159	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this whole judicial reform is concerned about three things so that today's authorities will first have control over the Supreme Court. The other one. To get the common people out of court and make it impossible for the ruling party to lose in the next election. This is the key norm of all this reform. Attention, I'm addressing the Ukrainians. In the Court of Cassation, the Chambers of Elections are formed, which will decide the case for the prosecution of the results of the elections, and all the judges in this Chamber will be appointed by the current authority in accordance with a clear scheme. So you're voting for this reform today, and tomorrow, none of you can be in Parliament, because CEVK, for example, will refuse to register in the elections, and you're going to file a complaint in this room, you're going to be out of the election, and you're going to be in this room again. We suggest we remove this norm and not create it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u160	Thank you. So I'm voting on Amendment 17. The committee has turned her down, please make up your mind. [[12:39:31]] For-44 The decision is not made. Next. Please, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u161	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. The 34th amendment is considered by the committee, but taking this amendment into account is nothing more than a raid, excuse me, a reunion of judges. Because this amendment says: “The Council of Judges of Ukraine is a higher body of judicial self-government and acts as the executive body of the assembly of judges of Ukraine. The Council of Judges of Ukraine is not a higher body of judicial self-government under any circumstances, because the only higher body of judicial self-government is the assembly of judges. ” So I urge 34, 35 to make an amendment for confirmation and no usurpation, no control in principle over the assembly of judges -- that was the only guarantee that we would have the opportunity, at least for judges to make decisions independently. And so it turns out that the formed body is completely controlled and the Council of Judges becomes a higher body in us -- it's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u162	Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u163	Guys, the point is, we need to look at the legislation that we've already adopted. If you look at the Law on the Judiciary, if you look at the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice, you will see that, in fact, including the Law on the Constitutional Court, which we recently passed, we have granted the powers of the Council of Judges to be completely new in fact, this is the executive body of the assembly of judges acting on behalf of the assembly of judges during the period between the meeting of judges. A meeting of judges is, excuse me, a serious structure that cannot respond to the challenges that exist daily, including the implementation, of the standards of legislation that we demand of them. And we've already prescribed in some laws that they're the executive body, and in this law, we don't think that we can do that. Friends, be consistent, we just need to systematically and comprehensively analyse legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u164	So Amendment 34 is about confirmation, the committee has taken it into account, and the committee is asking it to support it, 34 revisions. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u165	Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u166	[[12:42:13]] For-37 The decision is not made. 36th. Please, Eutusek 36th. Turn on Evtushka's microphone, please. Eutushka. Let the card be in your place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u167	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. I want to draw attention to what's going on in the hall, our citizens of Ukraine. In fact, the drafter of the bill was introduced by the President, who closed the doors of the courts to Ukrainian citizens in one way or another. I would like to place on confirmation Amendment 36, which refers to the authorization and order of the judges of Ukraine and is determined by this law and by the Ukrainian Council of Judges, approved by the Ukrainian Council of Judges. And by the terms, the Eighth Council of Judges of Ukraine and so on. Please place it on confirmation, and the people's deputies do not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u168	Thank you. So, the 36th amendment, the committee supported and asked the room to support the 36th amendment, please vote. Please identify yourself, 36th, as confirmed by the committee's request for support. [[12:43:49]] For-60 The decision is not made. Next: 45th, 46th, 46th, 46th? 40th, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u169	Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. Please place on the confirmation 40 of the bill, which refers to the possibility of creating temporary regulations that will be approved by the temporary directors of the courts. That is, we have a country of responsibilities, we have ministers in our duties, we have someone else in our responsibilities, we have heads of state enterprises, we have responsibilities, we have department heads in our responsibilities. We are also asked to have the provisional position of the court apparatus confirmed by some performing duties. I think it's totally unacceptable if we have a period when a new court is being created, a new court, then it's probably necessary to create a normal, transparent, understandable procedure that approves the state apparatus of this newly created court, but this certainly should not be the responsibility of the head of the apparatus appointed by the State Court of Justice. So once again, I want to urge us to move away from the concept of a country performing duties and temporary positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u170	Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u171	The point is that we have at this point when the temporary device position is confirmed, there will be no machine manager yet. Since we have issued a special procedure for the appointment of the director of the appropriate court, including the court of cassation. Therefore, in view of the fact that he is subject to the Law on State Service and that a special commission is to be formed to consider suitable candidates to hold a competition. It's going to be a lengthy process, and we've suggested that at the time when this temporary position is about the apparatus, the manager's duty, or not a full-fledged manager, could confirm, once again, the temporary position, and once the new manager is and there's a new apparatus, there's going to be a constant position to be approved by the head of the apparatus, that's logical. It's just that if we don't do it now, there's not going to be anyone to confirm that situation, and we're going to stop with a completely organizational problem that's going to be difficult to solve.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u172	Let us place the amendment of 40 of Janicki's people's deputies at the request of Deputy Vlasenek. The committee's asking her to support it. Dear colleagues, please be sure, 40 amendments. [[12:46:41]] For-57 No correction supported. I'm sorry, just to be clear: 46th already, this is Odarchenk's amendment, I heard, I just want to understand where we are, 42nd bet on confirmation, too? Honorable Head of the Committee, 42 now, mark this. mark more faithfully, bet on confirmation. It's an amendment from the Janicki People's Deputy, and National Deputy Vlasenko is asking for confirmation, 42nd. Please, it's Vlasenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear Irina Volodymyrna, this question again relates to temporary duties that confirm the temporary structure and size of the newly formed court apparatus. Once again, if we are talking about the real reform of the courts, we do not have to turn our country further into a country of responsibilities. The chairman of the committee has responded very eloquently to my previous remarks, but I have a simple question for him, and please tell the committee head, and how long have we been serving as health minister? You will have the same responsibilities in the courts that will act on a temporary basis. You had to propose a real normal procedure for establishing a normal functioning situation, not as a temporary performer of the duties of the head of the apparatus, but as someone else does, but so that this position is permanent, understandable, and so that we do not get into these traps. I want to remind you that there was a case in our history where one court chief served two years after his retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u174	Comment by the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u175	I'm on a deadline. The deadlines are clearly defined, which may not exceed more than three months for the contest and for the winner. Therefore, in order not to stop the process of reformatting the court’s apparatus and to ensure that it is effective in terms of assistance to those judges who will come to work. Well, you know what a huge machine does, all the more for a newly created court, how important it will be to help. In order for this three-month vacuum to be filled with something, and it wasn't a time that, well, just in fact would make it impossible for judges to exercise their powers properly, it was suggested. If you don't confirm it, well, then you'll have to get out of the situation. But it's better to confirm, because it's a purely technical thing that will allow the court to move smoothly into a new position and to exercise its constitutional powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u176	At the request of MP Vlasenek, we're asking for confirmation of 42 Yanick's amendment, which the committee has supported and asked for to vote in favour of, honourable colleagues. Vote! 42nd. We haven't made it to 48 yet. Your colleague Odarchenk's repairs are there before that. [[12:49:45.]] For-55 55 votes, not supported. Colleagues, we. It's hard to believe, but we're constantly approaching the completion of the amendments, and we've got about 15 left. Please return to the hall gradually. Now there are 46 amendments to the Odarchenka People's Deputies. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this bill plans to increase the value of court services many times. Courts are turned into some of the most expensive spas where only rich people can come. You're destroying appeals courts, they're about to be united. Several areas will be united in the same court. Let us at least postpone this reform. It is now anticipated that appeals courts in the areas will be destroyed on September 30, 2019. I suggest we clear this. And don't talk about video conferences here. Have you ever taken part in a video conference? When you're talking, and at the other end, the judges are doing their job, because they don't care what you're talking about, when you need to talk slowly, because otherwise it's just not clear when you're doing 10 minutes for 2-3 hours for quality of communication, you need to clear up the rules for the destruction of appeals courts in the areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u178	Colleagues, we are voting for 46 amendments to the Odarchenka People's Deputies. Please make up your mind. [[12:51:31]] For-52 52 votes, not supported. The 48th Amendment, at the request of the National MP Vlasenko, is Janick's amendment, is valid for confirmation, 48th Amendment. Vlasenko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u179	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. Once again, we return to the temporary responsibilities of the head of the apparatus, but in this case the Supreme Court, which also approves the temporary structures there and so forth. I've heard very well the reasoning of the committee head, but you know, I just want to remind the committee's head that, according to the law, we may have a minister's responsibility for not more than 30 days. We've got more. More than 60, he's fixing me. But for more than a year, we have had a number of ministers serving. Similarly, the same situation in the central executive branch, the same situation everywhere, I emphasize again, we are slowly turning into a country of performers, which is unacceptable. So in fact, we had to prepare a slightly different mechanism for the approval of temporary positions. And these are all temporary responsibilities that are completely wrong. And I started reminding the head of the committee that we had such a head of the Supreme Economic Court who was to retire after reaching the age of 65, but he was still working for three years.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u180	Please give the committee head a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u181	Thank you. Sergei Volodymyrovich, well, I can't be held responsible for what's going on in the Cabinet of Ministers and what's been in the Supreme Court 10 years ago. But I have to tell you that if you clearly read the end of this amendment, like everyone else in this section, you'll understand the purpose of introducing this temporary position and the temporary manager: "necessary to ensure the start of the Supreme Court," this is the initial three-month phase. If we're talking about the competition going to take place within 3 months, that doesn't mean it's going to take four months. This may mean that it will take place within a month if they speed up if a special test is carried out properly. But it was you, the representative of your faction, who insisted that we start the competition. If we refuse it, there's no question: let's leave the idea that was from the very beginning, the head of the apparatus will be appointed by the Constitutional Court accordingly. And on that we're going to finish this story quickly, it's going to quickly establish a permanent position. But understand that this is wrong, and here your representative of the faction has rightly pointed out that this would run counter to the State Service Act. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u182	Thank you for your clarification. My colleagues, once again, I would like to stress that this is about the amendment of 48 Janicki people's deputies, who the committee is asking for support, did not vote in favour. I'm asking you to be sure. It's based on confirmation of Vlasenko's demand. [[12:54:32]] For-93 93 deputies voted for the amendment. Let's move on. 49 amendment of the People's Deputies of Odarchenka. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, this amendment was made when there were no results of the so - called Supreme Court competition. And the results of the competition are very simple: the new Supreme Court was joined by judges who convicted Yuri Lucenka, a judge who deprived Stephen Bander of the name Hero of Ukraine, a judge who destroyed the Guest Court and other judges who are always willing to serve any regime. However, the Macedonian judge, who refused to rule on Midan’s ban, was rejected for seeming unkind. It is clear that judges who are not prepared to carry out the demands of authority are simply not needed in the new judicial system. I do not insist on my amendment, and I invite all MPs not to vote in favour of these laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u184	Please vote for the amendment. Oh, don't insist, I'm sorry. 50 repairs, Captain. Don't insist. Colleagues, now. We're moving on. We have about 10 amendments left. I would very much like to return everyone to the session room. Janicko’s 56th amendment calls for confirmation by national deputy Vlasenko. The committee's asking her to vote in favour. My hairpiece's a microphone. Then the Prince's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u185	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. In fact, once again, everything that's going on in this room has only come about for one reason. Because the author of the bill, Peter Poroshenko in an illegal way, in contravention of the Ukrainian Law on the Supreme Council Rules, introduced a unified, unified five, five bills, essentially unified in one text. So the reference of the head of the committee to a decree of the Supreme Council, well, in my opinion, such references are contradictory, since the Law of Rules has a slightly higher legal power than the Supreme Council's decree. But in all of this, article 116 of the Rules prohibits the inclusion in amendments of issues that were not considered in the first reading. This rule was not considered in the first reading. And then I'm going to ask you to put this amendment on confirmation. Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u186	Please comment to the committee head. And we ask our colleagues to return to the hall. I can see everything. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u187	Again, the author's comment does not correspond to the contents of the amendment. This amendment is technical, and she wants the word "become valid" back instead of the committee supporting it. Because the committee's proposing "introducing" the proper provisions of the bill. If you think that's right, although once again the legal department and the committee think that this is a violation of the rules of legal technology, please be, well, consistent in your logic. But, in fact, we wouldn't want to dismantle the actual model of legal engineering for years. Because there's going to be a balance. There's going to be some laws that say, "Acquiescence" and "introducing," and it's going to start like this. In this regard, it was by unification that the committee decided to propose this rule. And I think she's faithful. And it must be supported. I'm asking my colleagues to do it unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u188	56 Amendments apply to confirmation. The chairman of the committee is asking the Chamber to vote in favour, Your Honor. "For" asks the committee's chairman to vote. I ask you to return to all jobs. [[12:58:36]] For 112 112 votes. Not supported. Helen Skrum asks to return to the 51st Amendment. But at the same time, colleagues, we're asking you to keep an eye out, because we can't jump from one to the next. We're going after the amendments, and that's an exception, we've already passed the 56 amendments, 51-a is an exception. All right, we're going after 56.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u189	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Thank you for giving me that right. This is the last amendment I'm going to make for confirmation. I will not insist on her vote. Colleagues, I'd like to explain to those who are listening to us right now why we've been making these changes for a week. That's why we're fighting the Fatherland faction, the Self-Help faction, the non-factional MPs. We understand that we are not heard, we understand that no one is voting. But you have to hear what they're trying to do in this trial, you Ukrainian citizens who are watching us, who are listening to us, who are then communicating with this case, you have to understand that instead of canceling the phone law, instead of making independent courts, instead of finally having some minimal justice come to us, and people could find this justice in the courts, the President's Office and the President are now shutting down the courts even more, will ban you from being present at the hearing, create about 3,000 new constitutional courts, because every court can interpret whether the law is contrary to the Constitution or does not conflict with the Constitution, closes the process itself, makes it impossible for you because of the increase of the court casation and appeal. And these are things that actually kill not only the trust of the last person in the institution or in the court, but also the judicial system as such. That's what you need to know right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u190	So you just wanted to make 51 adjustments, but you don't insist on confirming it. 58 revisions. National MP Odarchenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u191	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, all who are in this room, know that votes for this pseudoreform are bought by the President's refusal to automatically block the funds. I'm just asking you to think for a moment about what you're going to vote for. You will vote in favour of what a judge can do without being tried, without being called on by a reporter to oblige him to give his property to the plaintiff. That you could put anyone back in the S.I.A. and keep them there for years, because the trial could go on almost indefinitely. Judges who condemned Yuri Lucenka receive a promotion. You're proposing to vote now because you're hoping it won't touch you? And life shows that it touches. And unfortunately, respectable colleagues, historical experience shows that dictators always destroy those who have led them to power.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u192	58 amendment of the People's Deputies of Odarchenka. Please vote. 58th, this is the amendment of the Odarchenka People's Deputy. [[13:01:45]] For-69 69. He's not. Dear colleagues, we're back to the 55th is the National Deputy of the German Amendment. Please turn on the microphone, but keep track of the changes so we don't jump on the table. 55th, Yemen. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u193	Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, honestly, it is extremely sad to observe such an apathy in the voting of this extremely important bill for our citizens, which includes not only procedural codes, but rather the point of non-return, after which judicial reform, the only jurisprudence, the elimination of higher specialized courts, and so on. I have a huge request, I see that there are no votes, but the amendment that we are about to vote on concerns the opening procedure for the Supreme Court. I'm going to propose a separate law that takes that into account. I'm taking it down now, because I'm obviously seeing that there are no votes to support it. Although, you know, let's give it a shot, maybe we can find some votes. I bet. Please put the 55th in support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u194	Asks the Yemeni national MP to vote in favour of amendment 55. I ask the People's Deputies of Pinzenik to proceed to the presidency after the vote. National MP Pinzenik, please proceed to the Presidium after the vote on Amendment 55. Please vote. This is the correction of the Yemeni, please support. [[13:03:22]] For-123 Not supported. Let's move on. Amendment No. 59 of the People's Deputies of Odarchenka. Don't insist. 60 amendment of the People's Deputies of Odarchenka. Don't insist. 61 Amendment of the People's Deputies of Odarchenka. Don't insist. Colleagues, we, you won't believe it, but we're getting close to the end, I'm asking you to go back to the session room. 62 People's Deputies of Odarchenka. Don't insist. Now, we haven't reached it yet, Honourable Deputy Vlasenko, we only have 63 amendments, it's very long, this 63rd amendment. The 64 amendment is the Janicki People's Deputy, an amendment that was taken into account by the Committee. National MP Vlasenko is asking for confirmation, please, the microphone of Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u195	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. I would like to point out once again that everything that is currently going on in the session room is also triggered by the fact that the author of the Peter Poroshenko Bill has passed, contrary to the Rules of Law Act, all the codes in the same text, all the laws amending the legislation in the same text, without dividing them in the right way. Here, the committee's colleague spoke of the Supreme Council's ruling, indeed, being the Supreme Council's ruling, but I would like to point out that the Supreme Council's Rules are now the law, and then the rules of law are higher than the rules of the Supreme Council's decree, so the rules of the Rules should be governed by the Rules, as there are 116 articles of the Rules that prohibit consideration at the stage of the second reading of the amendment that were not included in the text of the first reading. Please place number 64 on confirmation and do not support it by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u196	Please comment to the committee head on Janicko's amendment, which the committee has taken into account. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u197	Guys, I'm just tired of explaining what this is about, again, the Transitional Positions of the Bill. Now, if we don't confirm this amendment, imagine, we have a bill without "transitional and final clauses," so it doesn't go into effect, it doesn't go into effect and, it doesn't go into effect, nothing happens. Why, then, would such a bill be necessary? It's a newborn baby. So I'm asking you to confirm this right now. If not, I will propose another way out of the situation that I have already announced on behalf of the committee by summarizing our discussion for two weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u198	Thus, amendment 64 applies to the confirmation. The committee's asking her to support it and I'm asking you to vote, the committee's asking for 64 amendments. Anyone who supports the committee, please vote in favour. [[13:06:32]] For 112 The decision is not made. And, colleagues, the historic moment has come -- the final amendment to our bill. After that, we will give the floor to the head of the committee. But I am asking the secretariat of the Supreme Council and the heads of factions to invite deputies into the hall in five or ten minutes. 65th Amendment, National Deputy Odarchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u199	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, this is the last amendment to this bill and there will be, without exaggeration, a historic vote. Let me remind you that the green button is the vote for the complete subordination of Peter Dustenk's judicial system, all the other buttons are the return and continuation of the discussions, the search for a way to carry out a real judicial reform. Also, in accordance with part four of article 123 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I object to the adoption of the bill as a whole, because it is not accepted by the Committee and is noted by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. He may be accepted at an extreme only in the second reading with a directing of him to the third reading. And the third reading is absolutely necessary, because the project contains a large number of mistakes and internal contradictions, illogicalities, and, ultimately, it is in grave conflict with the Constitution. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u200	Are you insisting on the vote? And I'm putting 65 votes on the table, and the committee has rejected it, so I'm asking you to identify yourself. Last draft, colleagues. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:08:35]] For-78 The decision is not made. So, your honor, we have completed a three-week discussion of draft Law 6232. It's an important moment, it's the longest bill in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament, and we've been able to make it through that path. Now, colleagues, I want to give the floor to the committee's head during a three-week deliberation, a whole series of amendments have been confirmed or not confirmed, and this can be balanced by a bill. The whole point and logic of the bill was that the procedure was unified in all codes. I mean, there's no balance between the procedure in different codes. And so at 12 o'clock, the committee convened its meeting to invite the hall to return to those amendments that deny one another within the draft law. And I would like the chairman of the committee to make very clear the position of the committee that I will put to the vote before the vote in favour of the law. I give the committee's head up to 10 minutes, but I hope that Mr. Knazevitch will be able to put the committee's position more precisely before the vote. Please invite all the deputies to the hall. After the chairman of the committee has spoken, we will proceed to the vote. Mr. Ruslan, please give me my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u201	Thank you, Mr. Head! Honorable members of Parliament, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Please listen to what the committee has just agreed on at its meeting. It seems to me that such a decision will take away many of the unnecessary discussions that have been completely artificially introduced into the session hall during these three weeks of consideration of the bill. I'm not going to read all the decisions, I'm just going to give a story about what's going on. First of all, part of what's called openness and transparency, you know how many discussions here have been going on around what seems to be the new codes trying to shut down access to justice, limit access to free space only, and give the judge the right to determine when and at what point to stop broadcasting, and so on. I'd like to point out that this is a big manipulation, because it's all the rules of a valid code. But at the same time, given that the authors say it's not there now, and they want to introduce it confirms that these standards are artificial and dead they just don't work in practice. Because it's clear that only the availability of free seats can provide access and so forth, and in the era of smartphones in general, concealing any part of the meeting is unlikely. Although it would probably be logical, for example, for a closed section or part of the interrogation of witnesses, or for those involved in the commercial secret to be closed. However, the committee suggests removing everything that has sparked such a heated discussion in the session room, particularly the words "for free seats" remove from the text of the bill. So anything about access can be unlimited. The following sentence is deleted: "The court may determine the seats in the courtroom from which the photo-, video is to be recorded." No question: Let each one determine for himself where he or she is going to do so. The next very important thing is to rule out the sentence: "If the court finds that photo, film, television and video, and attention! – The broadcast of a court hearing on radio and television and on the Internet hinders the proceedings, the court may prohibit or restrict their conduct, which is determined by the reasoned approval." We suggest that there be no restrictions at all. In addition, we suggest that a whole range of other things should be taken into account, in particular, part five of article 9 of the Code of Administrative Justice, namely: "The Court cannot require evidence from the plaintiff in administrative matters concerning the wrongfulness of decisions, actions or omissions of the subject of authority" – this is what we have discussed here. Next, in part four of article 77 of the Code, after the words “except evidence of confirmation” replace the words “infringement of the contested decisions, actions or omissions of the subject of the defendant’s authority” with the words “the circumstances for which the applicant considers a violation of the rights, freedoms or interests” so that there are no insinuations. This is the second sentence of part two of article 264 of the Code of Administrative Justice: "The obligation to prove a violation of the charge by a legal and legal act of rights and freedoms and interests of the defendant is based on the plaintiff." I mean, we still agree with the logic that was, and we're taking down any discussion about that. Also in order to ensure the rule of law, the unification of terminology, the committee further suggests that the court's decision should be based on the principles of the rule of law. We've taken this into account in the General Positions, because there's an insistence that it should be in special positions, we don't deny it, because it's all going to actually work. It's very important. Be careful, we suggest – Alona Skrum, this is for you! – ensuring the protection of personal data while ensuring proper access to the courts in all registers. So all personal data can only be in the part that is unlimited in access. Throughout the Master's Procedural Code, the words "persons who did not take part in the case if the court ruled on the matter." correct the wording of "persons who did not take part in the case if the court decided on their rights, interests and (or) duties." That's what Deputy Sidorovich was talking about. Throughout the CDC text, we also suggest that we play the same standard. That's what I was just talking about on the GCC. And most importantly, since you know, they were put to confirm the rights that balanced the absolute bill, we suggest we go back to those rights. And let me read the number of these rights so that there are no insinuations on which the committee insists, and then, accordingly, let the session room decide. In particular, chapter one, Amendment 191, 297, 523, 771, 832, 936, 1189, 1251, 1018, 1019, 1035. [[B in m in s a l in]] The second was already a chapter. Chapter III: 396a, 861a, 1100, 109. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is chapter IV: 109, 156, 173, 241, 251, 278, 281, 297, 354, 375, 456, 542, 543, 547, 549, 555, 595. Chapters V: 34, 36, 40, 42, 48, 56 and 64. In addition, the committee points out that in the first speech, even when I reported to the committee's position, I want to duplicate, we changed some of the provisions of the bill, considering that after its adoption other legislative acts containing another terminology were adopted. In particular, this refers to the question, the notion of public and public procurement. The words "public" change everywhere. "state," actually, we're changing to "public." In addition, "The given resolution, this suggests to the committee, once again, the said resolution is sent to the complainant and to the participants who are adding a copy of the cassation complaint," this is number 1167 and part seven of article 395, author Krulko and others, we propose to consider. Further, in paragraph 26. Chapter four, this refers to the new edition of the Constitutional Court Act. You know that he was accepted between the first and the second readings. And we're proposing everything that relates to the requirements and appointment of the Head of the Secretariat regarding the size of the official salary of the civil servants, because it's the State Service Act, to write it down as we have voted accordingly and to compare it to the Supreme Court's apparatus with the corresponding coefficient. And lastly, my friends, there's been a lot of speculation around terminology. I'd like your attention. We were told that we had not corrected all spelling errors. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act, this is the authorization of the Supreme Council's Supreme Council apparatus and that, by working properly, it has offered on 17 pages a huge number of orthographic rights, including: "take part" in "take part", "given" in replacing the word "submission", "received" in "income", "no evidence" in "no evidence", "no judge" in "one judge" in "one judge" in "conclusive" in "conclusively" and so on. I'm noting that everything around here is so we've broken the writings here, it's already been corrected, and we're just suggesting that we just consider these revisions of the editors that put in place, so to speak, the purity of the text. I thank the individual authors who focused on this, apparently nothing else in these codes could be found. Therefore, I ask, Your Honor Mr. Head, to make the amendments I have made for confirmation and then to vote accordingly on the bill taking into account the Committee's position. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u202	Thank you for the report. People's deputies please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Now, colleagues, I'm going to explain the logic of voting. I'll put it first. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please don't scream. First, I'm going to put a motion to the committee to return to the right. If it doesn't pass, I'll put every turn to the vote separately. Please prepare for the vote and take up jobs. So the first one. I don't make the law yet. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to go back to the right. If it doesn't work, I'm going to put each of them separately. Please prepare for the vote, please take your seats. So I put to the vote the return to the rights listed under the transcript of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ruslan Knazevitch. Please vote, please support. We are voting for the return to the rights listed by Knyazevitch under the stenogram. Please vote, please vote. Please be supportive. It's not a law yet, it's a right of return. [[13:20:01]] For 211 Decision taken. Mr. Ruslan, I'm asking for every order. I'm asking for the rostrum, also for the rostrum. We didn't make it? All right, I'll do it again, all right. I'll do it again, we're not there. Colleagues, the people's deputies have not arrived. Once again, I put the motion to return to the rights listed by the head of the committee during the report under the transcript. Who's behind it. I'll bet, I'll vote. Take up jobs. Take up jobs, please. I can see we didn't make it. I'll do it again. I once again put the motion to return to the rights read by Ruslan Knazević under the transcript from the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s rostrum. Everyone, please take up their jobs and vote carefully. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:21:25]] For 231 We're back. 231, decision taken. I now put to the vote to support these amendments, which were sounded by Ruslan Knazević under the transcript. Please support the committee's decision and support the proceedings. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[13:21:56]] For 231 Decision taken. And now I'm putting the draft Law on Change (number 6232) in the second reading and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please don't vote with other people's cards. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! I ask you not to vote with other people's cards. Please vote 6232 in second reading and in general. Please vote and please support. Vote, fellows! Vote, fellows! I ask you not to use non-personal voting. Please be supportive. [[13:22:47]] For 234 The law is passed. We have passed the longest bill in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament. It was a difficult three - week job, colleagues. But we were able to go to a positive vote that opens the way for us to move to pension reform, a colleague, and we're moving to retirement. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're moving in, now we've got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u203	a statement for a recess that is ready to be replaced by a statement from the rostrum. Andrew Lozova is invited to attend. Then we move on, colleagues, finally to the pension reform, with which I welcome the entire hall. And, colleagues, I'll just ask you one more. Andrew, wait. My colleagues, I'd like to ask you to vote without a lunch break. I ask you to concentrate and support my proposal that we work without a lunch break and that we work until the issue of pension reform is completed. So, colleagues, I'm making a proposal in accordance with part two of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules to work without interruption from 14 to 16:00 and to complete the consideration of pension reform issues. I ask everyone to support, show Parliament's ability to work. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, please vote on the job without interruption. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:24:24]] For 227 Parliament has shown the ability to work actively and effectively. This is a great victory for Ukrainian parliamentaryism. Now, please, three minutes of Lozov's performance and we're moving on. Then there's the day's work, yes, the day's work, then there's the pension reform. Colleagues, stay put. I'm asking everyone to stay put. Please, Lozova, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u204	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. Last week, as I've been driving around Volin, Lviv, Equine and talking to our party members from other parts of our beautiful country, I wanted to tell you about the total injustice and demands of the Radical Party to correct this injustice. So we need, and we demand this, a radical wage index, especially in education and medicine. What is happening today? I was in the children’s garden of the village of Kremenec in the region of Rozischen in Volin. A teacher with a higher education in preschool education. He has the same salary as a technical staff member with all due respect for him. The Plain District Children's Hospital, where my mother works. An intern doctor who studied for six years at a medical university after two years and went to boarding school goes to a young doctor to work, saves people's lives, gets paid the same way as a nurse. That's not fair. Both the paramedics and the nurses and the technical staff have to raise their salaries. But a comparison is bullying. The same applies to pensions. And one of the requirements of the Radical Party is to index pensions. More seniority, higher pension, higher salary, higher pension. Not like today, when people do. The people have been wrongly compared completely. And it's about preschool education. I'd like to go to the government, we demand that you don't demean preschool workers, especially teachers, especially children's kindergartens and children's homes. Last year, you raised the teachers' salaries to everyone but them in January, and to the kindergarten teachers only in September. And for the next year, the government is planning the same injustice. Raise your salary for all educators from kindergarten to university. Ukrainians have a job, a high salary, and a life worth living!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u205	Thank you, colleagues. So we go to the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on pension increases (number 6614). And this, colleagues, is a responsible moment. And I invite the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions of Dennis Ludmila Leontiyevna to report. A great deal of work was done on the committee. And I'm asking, Ludmila Leontiyevna, to report on the work done on the committee and we're moving on to pension reform. Please, Sophia Leontievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u206	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Today we have a really responsible day, and I'm not exaggerating. Now every family where there's a pensioner, every grandmother or grandfather who lives alone, waiting for our decision, they're waiting for justice. For almost a year, there is a discussion of pension reform. The bill that we are considering today has brought together proposals from the President, government, and national deputies. The committee considered 2,000 151 proposals from 82 national deputies. 447 of them accounted for, 1 thousand 704 rejected. Almost the last minute, the committee, together with the government, held consultations with factions, groups, and individual national deputies. I would like to express my gratitude to the faction of the Radical Party of Láška and the National MP, Alexander Kugel, who worked with the committee all the time and made a number of very meaningful suggestions. We all realize that our main task is to justify the expectations of pensioners and raise their pensions. Will it happen? Yes, it will happen. The last improvement of the pension was carried out 5 years ago in 2012, and the wage rate has been applied to the calculation of pensions. Can I have five minutes?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u207	Five more minutes?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u208	Yeah, where's the five?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u209	The committee head is asking for five more minutes, I don't think there's going to be any objection, too important and serious is reform. Please, Mrs. Ludmila, I'm giving you five more minutes to set up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u210	Thank you. Under this law of October 1st, which we're going to adopt, there's going to be an improvement in the amount of pension from the salary of 3,000, 764 dollars 60 dollars, almost three times as much as it was. It was planned to make a recalculation of pensions on October 1st with a subsistence minimum of 1 000 312. According to factions, Oleg Láška's factions account for 1 thousand 452 bracelets, which is no longer a 61 dollar increase, but almost 140 and this is just the minimum that will actually happen with this law. For many years, almost 1 million of our citizens, if they didn't have enough experience, and for any other reason, they got a 949 dollar pension, and this law changes it to almost 423 bracelets, they're going to get at least 1 thousand 373 bracelets. And this is also thanks to the proposals of factions and national MPs. For women who retire early at the age of 55, this rule, which leads to a reduction in pension size, is also my offer. Its size will not go down and it will be the same as it will be assigned to them, but no less than a minimum of living. A full pension will be paid to working pensioners. So the average increase in pensions is going to be 700 dollars, and that's not going to be the same forever, it's going to change. Because you and I provide for indexation automatically, without any decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to depend on the legislative level. This is written in this law, and in 2019, and in 2020 and 2021, there will always be an indexation of pensions and it will increase by 50 percent of the average wage and 50 percent of the inflation. What awaits future pensioners? You know, it's justice, a little bit different, but justice. If a person works, gets a salary, pays his premiums, he gets a higher pension, and he's still retired. If she works less and pays less, she'll retire later. And if it doesn't work at all and it's her choice, the state won't leave her alone. If a person lacks insurance, he will be granted temporary state aid for the decision and in accordance with the order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. A person can pay the premiums and buy his missing internships -- they'll also be individual compensators for entrepreneurs, and here, I thank you for the position of Alexandra Kugel, who has stood up for entrepreneurs since 1998. For the military, the conduct of military service after 31 December 2017 included. For women who have given birth and raised children, it is also a student’s job to pay contributions. There are still separate categories of our citizens, and there's been a lot of talk about how miners, for example, choose which payment or regression or pension. No, she earned both the regressive and the pension. Mountain people, 20 percent of their pension payments, not. And then there's a separate commission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by November 1st to submit a bill on the modernisation of pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u211	Your Honor, you're done. Dear colleagues, one more minute, please, and let's move on to the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u212	The same will be done in a separate bill. about people who are temporarily in uncontrollable territories who are in labour migrants. And that's why this bill that we're adopting today will give 10 million citizens an increase in pensions. I very much ask you to adopt this bill in a second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u213	Thank you, Your Honor, for presenting the bill for the second reading. Now we have to go to the repairs. Now what I'm saying is that the faction that was so often mentioned in her speech by the head of Mrs. Denisov's profiling committee is the Laszka Radical Party, their faction has prepared the most amendments. But the faction leader has just said that he's taking these amendments off and asking for just five minutes to perform. I have the following suggestions, Mr. Oleg, that we should go to the amendments, and you. Do you want it now?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u214	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u215	No, I'm consulting you as the leader of the faction who prepared the most amendments. So we're giving it now, it's a violation of the Rules, but not to give to all the amendments, five minutes to the head of the Radical Party for the speech, where he's going to say, according to his amendments, and we're going to keep going. All right, good fellows?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u216	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! The Radical Party faction in the Pension Insurance Act made 1 thousand,432 amendments if we go through every correction it's going to be to new ones. So on behalf of the faction, we're subtracting all 1 thousand 432 amendments to simplify the procedure. But at the same time, I would like to make the demands of the Radical Party faction, the government, the pension reform under consideration, the first and main requirement of the implementation of article 46 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which says that pensions and other types of social benefits and benefits, which are the main source of existence, cannot be below the subsistence minimum established by law. Today, a million people receive a pension below the subsistence minimum. Our requirement is to raise these pensions, install them at a level not below the minimum of living, first. The other one. Half a million people get 949 dollars of pension because they don't have the necessary insurance period for their employment pension, but many of them worked, just employers didn't form them, they didn't record them in their workbook. These people today have lost their pension because of greed, greed, and greed. We demand that these people get a pension and set it at a level not below the minimum of living. Next, the government is proposing to raise the living minimum by 5 percent as of October 1, today - a thousand 312, the government is offering a thousand 372. We have 11 percent inflation and an increase in pensions, and it's going to eat up prices and inflation. So we want to at least raise the cost of living at least 15 percent from October 1st and raise the minimum of living. [[Applause]] Pensions for a million people, our pensioners, who get less income. Next, the project submitted by the government does not take into account the period of education in universities and in the PTU in the insurance system which grants the right to receive a pension. We require a period of education in colleges and in PTU to be included in an insurance internship that grants the right to receive a pension. Because, for example, students of PTU 60-80 percent of learning is manufacturing practice. Why should these children not receive a pension when they retire? Our requirement is to abolish 15 percent of the pension tax for working pensioners so that the person who earned his pension will receive it in full. The requirement that was taken into account, I repeat again under the transcript, 200,000 Ukrainian women who have retired under 55 are now receiving a pension less than they have earned and are expected to wait up to 60 years. We demand that social justice be restored so that Ukrainian women receive the full pension they have earned, regardless of the age in which they have retired. [[Applause]] We require the government not to raise the retirement age. Our requirement is to list pensions for long-term pensioners, with working conditions so that the pension will be paid depending on the length of the job, the working conditions. The bill submitted by the government increases from 22% to 38% in the EU for metallurgy, for miners. We demand not to raise taxes for people who work under particularly difficult conditions, not to raise their retirement age. Because metallurgists, miners, chemists, other heavy-work categories have the right to retire for the pension they have earned. Our next requirement, which applies to everyone at all, is a salary. We want to have high decent pensions – there must be a high salary. The government proposes to set a minimum wage of 3,000,700 dollars a month from the new year, just 500 dollars a month. Few, fellow government officials, because prices today go up like a fool in the sun. And that's why we demand a minimum wage of 5,000 dollars per month from October 1. If our demands are taken into account, the Radical Party faction will consider supporting pension reform. Our goal is that millions of Ukrainian pensioners should receive new pensions, millions of working people should receive a decent pension when they retire.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u217	Thank you for the presentation. I'm asking you to come back to the rostrum. Now. I ask Mr. Soboljev not to get nervous, speak calmly, I hear everything. Now, Mr. Soboleva, I'd like to inform you, perhaps you've left the hall. The situation was on. I'm in the hall, too. I'm asking you, please, don't let us stop each other. And as chairman, I'm informing you that the Radical Party Laska has submitted a thousand 432 amendments. Now they've all taken pictures, and that's why they took five minutes. I'm asking you, are you making any changes? [[B in m in s a l in]] Now. That's what I wanted to hear from you. So please don't be nervous. We're Europeans, aren't we? Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we are now, once again, violating the Rules somewhat, but this is a positive discussion in the Hall, because colleagues from Fatherland who have joined in the drafting of the Pension Reform Bill are also willing to withdraw a number of their amendments, and now they are also asking for five minutes to announce and withdraw a series of amendments, which I believe in this context by derogating from the Rules, but constructively. I invite you to the parliamentary rostrum, Mr. Kugel. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u218	Thank you, Madam Chairman. On behalf of the faction, I want to thank everyone first. who was working on pension reform, because when they say the faction gives a lot of rights, please raise the law and see that all the deputies of this faction to each other have filed the same rights to the law and so on. And we've worked several times, and besides Mr. Shuhevich, who I respect very much, unfortunately, no one has stood up for the committee. To all members of the committee, thank you very much for the Fatherland faction for listening to our five-hour amendment. For five hours, we were able to protect each check. And by supporting most of the demands that Mr. Lazko has made right now, I want to say that these are adjustments that the committee has failed to accept, and they are submitted by Julia Timoshenko and Alexander Kugel and the "Paternity" team. They don't agree, unfortunately. These are 20's, 25's. The 20th, 25th, 26th, which you talked about women, the 1.35th, which doesn't make things worse, it leaves people with better conditions, it's for miners, no matter how much they retire, and many more. But I want to start with a nice one. I thank the Ministry and the committee for that. What's important is that we've worked very hard on the work experience. And I'm asking the Minister. There were ATO guys standing here today, showing a letter of reply to the Pension Fund, that unfortunately somehow the Pension Fund doesn't take into account the ATO service, while there's a record in the employment book and evidence. Let us write there, write military service, write down those who worked and paid wages and social contributions for them, for there is also a record in the workbook, and a reference work. I thank you for taking into account all women's specific vacations. Thank you so much for including the boys in the service. The greatest thanks for two million Ukrainian entrepreneurs, who from 1998 to 1998, I point out that after January of this year will receive the retirement age of one month. And this is very important. What we're not, we insist, please. And we said that to the committee. First, Mrs. Irina, what adjustments are left, which we are introducing, and perhaps Mr. Lazko will support us. That's the first one. Ratio 1.35. We're asking him to do 688. We insist, insist on what Mr. Lazko said to leave the active retirement of women at 55 years of age. This is 724 Alexander Kugel. You can support it, it's rejected. Another law and Julia Timoshenko. This is the minimum pension size. I'm asking you to listen. It's rejected, 777, where we insist that it can't be less than the minimum wage, the pension can't be. And the amendment that you're talking about the minimum cost of living.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u219	I'm sorry. Madam, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, look, you'll be going after your amendments, so that we, you'll represent them. No, it's not. No, I'm sorry. You said that now we're talking about the corrections that are being made. No, I can interrupt as a presiding officer, because there are adjustments that insist. And we're going to go after that amendment. Dear Mrs. Alexander, I'd like to ask you to focus on the amendments you're making. And when we get to the ones you insist on, we'll follow them. We're going to announce them. No, well, that's it. Colleagues, I'm going to go to a thousand 400 amendments now, no questions asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u220	Mrs. Irina, I beg you to turn on my microphone. Mrs. Irina, I beg you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u221	One minute, please, the ones you're editing right now. And then we go after the amendments to everyone who's left.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u222	Which you took, because I'm making demands for the Fatherland faction that worked on that law, and I'm just calling it right now not just requirements, but those that are still highlighted by the rights. It's the minimum size they said it knocked out some faction, it's 838, where we're saying it can't be any smaller than a minimum of living. But we're adding another one, which is going to be 1.18, so that the inflation rate will always be taken into account. I want to pay attention to all the people who have the hope of this pension law. Yes, these are the first attempts by the government to make fair changes, considering that a person who has worked 35 years can't get a pension that a person has worked for 15 years. But there's a warning, a warning that there's a lot of people who don't have a disability, and we have to admit that the standard doesn't take into account today people who care for 20-25 years of sick children, there's no rule on women who can't find a job today after 45 years. And this is a situation that doesn't answer today, there are no young people in this bill. And so we're going to go ahead with the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, as presiding officer, I would like to apologize in front of the hall for going to two factions, because, in fact, I asked, Your Honor, that we should come back to this in the end, because you announced the amendments that you made. Instead, we have heard adjustments that will be insisted upon. And now. We've announced the amendments that we're going to insist on, we've heard a political speech, well, it's like it's always happening in us. Let's get some repairs. We're going after the repairs, but I want everyone to do it. I'm asking everyone to conclude that unfortunately, even those positions that we seem to have agreed on are not being implemented. I'm asking the committee head to the rostrum, and we're moving on to the amendments. 1st, Davidenko. Don't insist. 2nd, Royal. He insists. Please, the King's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, I insist on the amendment, because in the very title of the bill is a lie, as in the entire bill. You're talking about increasing your pension, and you're actually going to increase your insurance, raise your retirement age, reduce your pension rate by 35-40 percent, deny your early retirement rights to teachers, doctors, social workers, and a whole range of other unacceptable and destructive new pension schemes. Fellows, I am addressing you: if you are really worried about future Ukrainian pensioners and current pensioners, don't vote for this pension reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u225	You insist on voting or.? Please 2 Queen's Amendment. Vote. [[13:51:58]] For the 18th. Not supported. Next. I, my colleagues, am taking down all the changes of the Radical Party. If you do not have a name and someone else’s name, please raise your hand. Hiccup, 38th. Don't insist. Ilyuk. 39th. Don't insist. Ostrikova, 42nd. He insists. Please, the microphone. I announced Ostrikova, then I'll be back. I'll come back to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, my proposal excludes from the draft position that effectively stops the retirement of persons assigned to four categories of persons who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. These people, who live or work regularly, are trained in the territory of the enhanced radio - environmental control area. So the mean thing is that these numbers have stopped since early 2015, so I'm sorry, the back number. The laws in Ukraine have no reverse action in time. I will also note that in this room, when the Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster was adopted, such a right to payment was guaranteed as the constitutional right of affected citizens to protect their lives and health. Please support my offer and exclude this position from the body of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u227	Thank you for your clarification. 42 revisions, please identify the hall. 42, Ostrick's. 42, Ostrick, please identify yourself. [[13:53:24]] For-54 He's not. Please go back to the 19th is the Royal Amendment, which has been partially taken into account. The King's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u228	Dear colleagues! As a result of the Chernobyl tragedy, an incredible number of people and now the fourth - category Chernobylites — 809,000 — were denied the right to receive an additional pension for health damage, with a hindquarter. You know, in principle, this law can cancel the Chernobyl tragedy itself, write that it just wasn't there. How can you get people out of retirement today for the irreparable health damage they have received, at a time when people have reached an older age and this extra pension, which is all about medicine, for them the only way to survive, you cancel it in an absolutely unconstitutional way. So we insist that the fourth category is entitled to a pension.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u229	I would like to vote in favour of the Royal Amendment, and I would like to point out that the committee has considered it in part. [[13:54:52]] For-43 Not supported. Come on, please. What's that? 43rd? And you took off your repairs, Fatherland, but you took five minutes to make your amendments. 43, please. National Deputy Yvchenko, 43th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u230	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I propose, however, to follow the Rules, not to violate them, and the claims against each other will be less -- first. The other one. It is 43 laws that speak of those who live in the Chernobyl area or in the polluted territories. A bill that the government has passed in hindsight completely deprives such people of an additional pension for health harm. I want to go to my colleagues, please go to the Cancer Institute or oncoclinics and see how many people there are. You're taking extra pensions or extra credits from them today by your bill. We propose to leave it in its proper order and our number 43 please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u231	May I have the same vote as I would like to move on the Rules. I didn't ask to speak for five minutes to make the amendments, and I went for it. And I apologize to the session room for breaking the Rules and believing what the faction said. Thank you. [[13:56:12]] For-49 49 votes. Not supported. Please, Amendment 40. People's deputy head, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u232	Mikhail Golovko, "The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union." Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to place on my confirmation of my amendment. Because I don't agree with the position today of the committee that you've been depriving the Chernobyl people of their lives today, saving the Ukrainian people of their pensions, of the I, II, III, IV categories, that's unfair. The law cannot be directed backwards in time. So we suggest that we leave this rule in force and consider this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u233	Thank you. Please vote in favour of the 40th amendment of the People's Chamber, and the committee says that this rule is included in the previous legislation, Mrs. Denisov explained. [[13:57:16]] For-58 58 votes. Next amendment, if I'm not mistaken, 46 Royal, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u234	Dear colleagues, I insist on this amendment. Say, there are people in this room who don't know what the Chernobyl disaster is? I'm sure it's not, we all know that people who worked and lived in an impressive zone and resumed the work of AES lived in polluted areas and had the right to retire early. Now these people are told that since January 1, it will be totally irrelevant that you have worked 20 years to destroy your own health and expect to retire for the term. You're going to be pensioners now on general terms, and that's not an assumption, and it's only one thing that this government knows absolutely nothing about the Chernobyl tragedy and the feat of the people who have gone through its consequences, sacrificed their own health and more than they have now earned their early retirement. We insist on voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u235	Vote for this amendment, 46, Your Honor. [[13:58:45.]] For-41 Not supported, 41 votes. 53rd, don't insist. 52, don't insist. Vladimir Mikhailovich, to yours, I don't think we're there yet, which one? 54th, it's Dennis's amendment, you're for confirmation, right? Please turn on the microphone for confirmation of 54 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u236	Dear Chairman, your Honourable Reporter! I'm in the Chernobyl area, and I have areas in the district where a hundred percent of them are struck by Chernobyl. And if the committee doesn't take into account the suggestions that they just said, I would ask you very much, in accordance with the Rules, to let the presiding officer explain what this is about, so that I have reason to speak to people. Or I invite you to come to the county and tell them how you want to make them happy. I've just taken advantage of the opportunity to ask you, give an argument to people, not talk about overall happiness. Because it turns out that we want to make everyone happy and spit on a particular person, especially the Chernobyls, don't abuse them, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u237	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you know the Rules, perhaps in this room, you know that now this Amendment 54 that you've used does not apply to black people. I can hear everything. Therefore, 54 amendments do not apply to Chernobyl. Okay, come on, we're putting 54 on. put 54 amendments on confirmation, or what do you require? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm inviting you. I said, what do you want? You want to put the 54th on confirmation?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u238	An explanation for the niggers. Please, the head of the committee explains on the Chernobyls.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u239	Dear colleagues! No change that was already in the laws that had been passed before we are doing in this bill what we are now looking at is a change in the proposal for Chernobyl disaster and pensioners that was already adopted by us as early as December 27, 2014. As of January 1, 2015, this category of Zone 4 is no longer covered by the benefits. So it's just the introduction of legislation, the codification of pension legislation into a special law, nothing happens. We didn't do anything about the Chernobyls, nor did the government make any proposals to make any worse the condition of the Chernobyl pension system, nor did the committee make any proposals. There was an offer from the Burbak People's Deputy, he'll talk about it. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u240	Thank you for your clarification. The Lithuanian National MP does not insist on the confirmation of 54 amendments. 55 revisions. This is the Royal Amendment. 55th. Dear Mr. Eutuszek, 55, this is the Royal Amendment she's not listed, she can't be submitted for confirmation. I give the word to the Queen. 55 amendments are out of the question and the author insists on speaking here. Please, Mrs. Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, this law is proposed to exclude the draft amendment to the Chernobyl law, since these changes again impose restrictions on the assignment of Chernobyl pensions. This is unacceptable and is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine as part of the ban on narrowing existing rights and freedoms of citizens. We insist on this amendment. We have also been approached by representatives of the civil organizations of the Chernobyl community and have been urged, honourable deputies, not to adopt a standard that is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. And this is the first reason to go to the Constitutional Court and accuse this project of so-called "reform" from the government, because it completely denies the Constitution of Ukraine. So I insist that this amendment now be supported and voted on, and then we will correct the issue of the Chernobyls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u242	At the request of Mrs. Queen, 55 amendments are made. Please. [[14:03:42]] For-35 Not supported, 35 votes. 68th, 69th, Eutusek. Don't insist, he's gone. Next. Now, colleagues. 98th, Eutusek. Don't insist. 100th, Royal. Are you insisting? No, it doesn't. Now. 129th, Eutusek. Don't insist. Sold. Don't insist. Now, now, now. 134th, Krulko. Please, National Deputy Krulko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u243	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This is the amendment that Timoshenko jointly made by Julius Volodymyrna, Ichchenk, and Krulk. See what this amendment has to do with anything. Dear listeners, pensioners, this applies directly to you: The People's Income Index Act plans to eliminate pensions, which at this point should be indexed 100 percent to the level of inflation. This is what's called a reform! Now it's only going to be indexed by 50 percent of the inflation rate, that's what you're going to see in the following articles. I'll give you a simple example: if the authorities were to follow the law properly, in 2015, when prices for the population rose by 48.7 percent compared to 2014, the pension was to increase by 48.7 percent automatically. And if this were to be done, as it was written in the law in force, which is now being amended by the expulsion of pensions, nothing was needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u244	Thank you for your clarification. The committee head is asking for an explanation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u245	My dear colleague, at the committee meeting, the matter was resolved. After we had communicated with all the factions and with the government, the pension was returned to the law as an object of indexation. Because. So your revision doesn't matter. [[Noise Nodes]] Well, she's not like that right now. Here's just the way the pension is now, the Index Act is in effect, so it's going to work now. Once again, after the committee's meeting, I spoke in my opening statement, discussions with factions, with the national deputies in the presence of the committee and the government party, this question is solved. That is, the pension remains an object of indexation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u246	Please put to the vote 134 amendments to the national deputies Krulko, Timoshenko and Yvchenko. We vote for her, please, colleagues, to decide. You're welcome to define yourself. I would also like to announce that Mr. Reva, a member of Parliament, participates in the session. [[14:06:56]] For-36 No correction supported. 135th, Eutusek. Don't insist. 138th, please, Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u247	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-Help faction. Dear colleagues, this amendment also refers to what was said earlier about pension indexation. The Cabinet of Ministers proposed in its bill on the so - called reform to exclude from the Ukrainian Money Income Index Act the pension population as an object of indexation. It should be noted that under this law, the indexation is carried out in order to maintain the purchasing power of citizens in conditions of rising prices with a view to compliance established by the Constitution of Ukraine, guaranteeing sufficient living standards for the population of Ukraine. So it's very good that the committee has managed to stand down, and at least 50 percent of the people who are going to be indexed by inflation will be left in this law. This is only because of the activities of the National Deputies. And I have a question with the opportunity to go to the government. Why does the government not now index the pension and meet the direct requirement of the law that it is obliged to carry out today? And we didn't need this bill to index pensions for our pensioners since 2012.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u248	According to the Rules, we do not have the opportunity to ask questions to the government on Friday. And now we're voting for 138 amendments to the Ostrikov People's Deputies. Please. [[2:08:39]] For-39 39 votes. Your amendment is not supported. Let's move on. Amendment of the 201st National Deputy Ivchenka, as well as Krulko and Timoshenko. Please, Yvchenka, you have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u249	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, well, unfortunately, we haven't been able to get a meaningful answer for the Chernobyls, which refer to the IV category. The government of Yatsenuk introduced the bill, yes, in 2014. Yes, we've stalled article 49. But we want to go back to that and give people an extra pension. It's okay. There's people all over the county who have people like that. Why do we leave them behind, breaking the Constitution? That's the first one. The other one. It's about indexation. I want you to give a clear understanding of what correction is based on. Since we applied the indexation for 100 percent, you rejected it, now you're saying that it's counted after the meeting. So maybe the table needs to be corrected so that we don't talk about what's counted? But we insist that the index is 100 percent per inflation. It's not 50, it's 100. This will be fair, and this will be a fair approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u250	We're voting for the 201st amendment proposed by the MPs from Fatherland. [[14:10:13]] For-44 Your amendment is not supported. 203. Ostrikova. Are you insisting? Please, Ostriki's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u251	Dear colleagues, Tetjana Ostrkova, Self-Help faction. Again with regard to pension indexation. The thing is, the government can't guarantee that there's no inflation at this level to completely stop the indexation of pensions. A similar amendment was made by the Fatherland faction, and the Radical Party faction was fully signed under the same amendment. Because what are they offering us right now? That 50 percent of the inflation will be achieved, 50 percent of the minimum wage. But we don't know what the minimum wage will be, so we know exactly what the budget of 18 is for inflation and devaluation of bracelets. That's why we demand, as a colleague from Fatherland observed, that we do a 100 percent index of pensions and that we don't bother people with the idea that we have to vote on any extra laws to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u252	Thank you. So I'm voting on amendment 203 of the Ostrikov People's Deputies. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports the 203 amendment, please vote. [[14:11:37]] For-39 The decision is not made. 264th Deputy Ostrkova. 264th. Don't insist. 26. Deputy Ostrikov insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u253	Dear colleagues, 264 amendments, Tetjana Ostrkova, the Self-Help faction, also refers to leaving the full index of pensions at the level of inflation, as provided for today's legislation. And I ask her to support her and the hall unanimously. If, if this is corrected by the committee, it means that the table of amendments should also contain the amendments "self-help", "fatherhood", the Radical Party, that they are included or included in part. I would also like to take this opportunity to say and inform all Ukrainian citizens, not just pensioners who seek justice in courts and in law enforcement. After the so-called so-called judicial reform that was voted on by the Vote of the Environment, you will find no more justice in the criminal process. Even the facts that are now under criminal authority, Yanukovich and field affairs will be closed because they are violated as facts. And they're being investigated for more time than that. Thus, the oligarchic majority of the Supreme Council now voted, not on judicial reform, but on the way to liberation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u254	Thank you. 264th line. The committee turned her down. But Deputy Ostrikov is asking the entire room to vote unanimously for her. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:13:19]] For-43 The decision is not made. 265th. 266th. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. 267th. Shenkovic insisted. Please, Shinkovich. 267th. And then I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u255	Dear fellow national MPs! Well, the point of my revision is simple, it's to index, so the pay for the work of students in the day-to-day classrooms up to 1.25. But with the opportunity, I want to say something very important. Dear Ukrainian people! Now you see an attempt to destroy the colossal work that was done by the government of Vladimir Groysman, the Ministry, the Committee of Social Policy, led by the wonderful leader of humane Denisova. The Coalition, you see, the constructive factions have taken their amendments and worked where? In the working groups. Each national MP had the opportunity not only to work on the committee but also on the working groups. There were 5 or 7 people in the task force. Dear Ludmila Leontiyevna, why don't you say so? And it was those who made the amendments today that came. And those who want to fight and say that this law is not necessary, your honor, it's complex, it's not just about indexation, it's about filling up the Pension Fund. It's a principle thing, whether it's this Parliament or not, it's going to be this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u256	Thank you very much. I understand you don't insist on voting? Don't insist. 273, if I'm not mistaken. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u257	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I'd like to keep it from being manipulated, and those MPs who don't work just a little bit shut up. Because the "Fatherland" committee was Alexander Cugel and I came here myself, and we stood up for five hours. Some of the revisions have stood still, but some of us want to make a sound, just the ones that are rejected. So 273 on the right, Reverend Ludmila, I have a misunderstanding. The misunderstanding about working pensioners is in fact suggested by this right not to take into account the size of their salaries, their income to determine the size of their pensions and their retirements. Yet such salaries or income of working pensioners are the basis for calculating the EU’s accounts. And that means an automatic increase in the insurance rate. Please tell me, is this the norm how it's treated in this direction? Because we treat it ambiguously, and we understand that by this regulation you want to reduce insurance for people. I got a call from the Bloody Horn where people said the Pension Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u258	Come on, we don't add time. Now, Ludmila, I understand that Ludmila Denisov will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u259	What are you talking about? If you don't understand what's written here? On the contrary, we suggest that the government can't even think about taking income into account to determine, pay his pension and salary or not pay him. It's a front, it wasn't such a standard. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's right! That the pension will be paid anyway, without considering the salary! So that together, a person can get both a salary and a pension, that's what it's all about, okay? It's not that there's going to be any revenue, no. One hundred percent pension, one hundred percent salary. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u260	Got it, didn't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u261	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u262	Very good. Next item. And let's really talk about it without political coloring and not start interfractional hostility in the room. [[B in m in s a l in]] And interfractional. 291th in me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u263	268. Sixty-eight, right? I'm sorry, it's the Queen's, right? One second, 260. But we've already passed it, haven't we? Then we'll be back, 268 seconds. Royal, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u264	Dear colleagues, we all remember how, over the past three years, in a completely unconstitutional way, people of complex occupations have been denied the right to retire on extended terms. And it's not about MPs, it's not about prosecutors, because then you would vote. This is about metallurgy, miners, chemists, teachers, social workers, pilots, and other categories. These people have already lost their health, and you want to eliminate the right of such people completely under tax conditions. It's completely unconstitutional. You're applying the law as a back number. And of course, if that's accepted, we're going to the Constitutional Court. And I insist that our teachers, our paramedics and others, and this world practice, should have the right to retire early. And it's not a benefit, and it's a right for a person to go early to a well-deserved vacation. Thank you. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u265	Thank you. And I'm voting on amendment 268. I'd like to make a statement. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:19:25]] For-22. The decision is not taken. 291st, 305th, 306th, 307th. 307th. Royal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u266	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this is a rare case where we have managed to resist at least the crumbs of real social protection from a general reform that we can't call "pension genocide." And I want to say that government pension reform is now not a social protection strategy for our citizens, which reminds us more of a barter where Kabmin for a tranche of the IMF is accounted for by Ukrainian pensioners. That's why we're not going to vote for this pension reform, but the fact that this amendment is taken into account is thanks to everyone who worked on the committee and really protected at least a few norms and rights. So I'm not asking for confirmation of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u267	Thank you. 323rd. 324th. 338. 340. 341. 343rd. 344th. 345th. 347th. 359th. I'll be right there. It's 361, isn't it? 69, right? Please, 369 revisions, Shinkovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u268	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, I am speaking for the last time, and I will not perform in any other manner, and I call upon you, dear friends, to stop prying. The bill is being worked on until it is considered in a second reading. The time for this was, the possibilities created by the committee and the government were. And let's stop talking right now about that we couldn't, that you couldn't until the moment we're looking at it. Because you understand very well that no one will vote for the changes that have been made by the professional committee. Let's be honest and not lie to people, because the pensioners are watching and listening to us right now, have a conscience, respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u269	I understand you don't insist on voting? So let's move on. 400th. Yeah, sorry, yes, 399, John Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u270	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, what this amendment and I would like to ask the head of the committee here to confirm clearly. Amendments to the bill were proposed that 20 percent of pensioners living in mountain settlements, who were provided with an allowance plus 20 percent, should be paid in a different way, not from their pension, but from the subsistence minimum, which in fact meant a reduction and a net increase in this 20 percent amendment. We put it on the committee, the committee supported it. I want us to confirm that for mountain populace, because I'm addressing my constituents from Carpathians, their 20 percent allowance will be reduced. Please tell me that all of this will be fully preserved, as was the case with the law in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u271	Thank you. May I have a moment with the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u272	Dear colleague, indeed, your amendment was considered by the committee, and we made that decision unanimously. It's going to be the same as now: the mountain population is going to have 20 pension payments, 20 percent of their pension. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u273	Thank you. Amendment number 400. Don't insist. Amendment number 401. 412. Don't insist. Amendment 413. Amendment 414. 400, ah, excuse me. 429. Don't insist. 431. Don't insist. 32. Don't insist. 434. Don't insist. 436. Don't insist. 477 to 488. Don't insist. Number 491 correction. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? Amendment 489. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u274	Dear colleagues. I'm asking Mr. Shinkovic from BP not to teach us how to work in the session room. If you are itchy, please work, work, and answer. Not all here need to be taught how to live and how to work. This is the first time. Second, about this amendment. It is a good thing that journalists have been granted the right to an early retirement. Sadly, however, such rights have been denied to metallurgy, chemicals, teachers, social workers, fliers, and other professions. So we think the government's proposal and the so-called pension reform, it's already going in an anti-constitutional way so we can't go any further because they're going to sue her in the Constitutional Court. This amendment, I don't insist on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u275	Thank you. No, there are no replicas available during the consideration of the amendments. Please, let's move on. 491. Don't insist. 492 to 503. Don't insist. 504th. Don't insist. Wait. 506th. Don't insist. 508th. Don't insist. And 509. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u276	Honorable Ukrainian People and Retired Pensioners! I'll tell you that right now, there's exactly one person in the opposition block, one person who's been asked to forgive me, to delay the acceptance of the bill that you need. Please stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u277	Thank you. You don't insist on voting, I understand. 510th. Don't insist. 511. Don't insist. 512th. 513. Please, 513, National Deputy Sugonako.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u278	Sugoniko Alexander, the Sumstina, the Social-Democratic Party. I propose to support this amendment, which refers to disbursing the pension by decision of the court itself, not by decision of the Pension Fund as provided for in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u279	Thank you. Please vote. [[14:27:32]] For-29 The decision is not taken. 491. People's deputy Krulko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u280	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, what am I proposing? Even there are a few deputies here, so listen, what are you doing? By our amendment 491, we want officials of the National Bank to receive a general pension, like all other pensioners in the Ukrainian State. Because by leaving the rule of government, the officials of the National Bank will receive a pension according to the rules that the National Bank itself will determine. So, please tell me, where is justice? Where are the righteous pensions that all will receive? So let's put it in order, all the officials have to get a pension at the same level as the other pensioners who get it on general terms. That's why I'm asking you to put 491 amendments on confirmation and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u281	Thank you. Please vote. [[14:28:52]] For-39 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 514. Don't insist. 516th. Don't insist. 517th. Don't insist. 518th. 519. 520th. Don't insist. 523rd. Don't insist. 524th. Don't insist. From 526 to 537. [[B in m in s a l in]] I called. Listen carefully. Please, National Deputy Royal, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u282	Dear colleagues, let us consider, according to the Rules, each amendment clearly called each. Thank you. Dear colleagues, this rule is a powerful example of the government entering even into the pockets of unemployed people who are officially registered and in charge of employment. So in a situation of total unemployment, when, after losing a job, a person registers in the employment service and gets paid by law, and the job search time is included in the insurance system -- they want to review and shorten the backlog so that people are deprived of a certain period of insurance. So we insist that this issue be kept from being raised and that people be counted as they are still in the insurance system. Please vote on this amendment. And I want to talk to my colleagues who are teaching us something here, so please sit down and answer for your changes and your decisions. And you don't need each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u283	Thank you. Please vote. I just want to make sure, ma'am, that the amendment number 524 was sounded while you were on the phone, so you didn't hear it. [[14:31:00]] For-16 Amendment 539. Please: National MP, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u284	You know, the cynicism of today's authority is that you don't even turn down babies to take away the last bottle of milk and the last penny from the retiree. Think about it: A single mother is getting paid today after losing a breadwinner, and the ideologists of this document and these crumbs want to take it away by covering up a pension reform. With such success, the government will soon simply forbid women from giving birth to stop paying money to their children and mothers. It's just unacceptable, the main problem with our pension system is that we have more pensioners than the officially employed population. And with these standards, you increase the gap even more, cause the birth to decrease, and threaten to improve the demographic situation in the country. You don't have to touch children and young mothers, leave it the way it was, at least, and change it to the worst, I need confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u285	Please vote. [[14:32:33]] For-22. I'm paying attention to the "Race" system, please check a few cards, they don't work. In the meantime, the 540th amendment. Don't insist. From 541 to 552. Don't insist. From 553 to 564. Don't insist. Next: 566. Don't insist. From 569 to 580. Don't insist. Amendment 581. 581 repairs. Don't insist. 582nd. Don't insist. 585th. Don't insist. 586. Don't insist. 590. Don't insist. You don't insist. 592nd. Please, the Royal People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u286	Dear colleagues, today we enjoy telling people about Ukraine’s prospects as an agrarian state. Instead, we're all looking at a waste of state subsidies, trying to sell Ukrainian lands and so forth. And that's just the standard you decided to put farmers in conditions where they're not comfortable with farming. And it's going to be easier, really, to sell your land and your plots, and we're going to urge you to exclude that rule from the bill and not create conditions in the country when you can sell Ukrainian land at no cost. If we're really talking about our agrarian perspectives, we have to start with the support of our farmers, and that's the opposite of that. So I insist on confirming this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u287	Thank you and vote, please. [[14:34:53]] For the 17th. I'll be right there. Now. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm calling it a 15-minute break. Let's call the firemen. There's a wire somewhere. [[B in m in s a l in]] 15 minutes to work. 15 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] 15 minutes!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u288	Colleagues, we're going to clarify and eliminate the cause of what's in the discomfort room. And I think in 15 minutes we'll be able to clear up all these points.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u289	Dear colleagues, we continue our work, we continue our meetings. We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on pension increases. We've stopped for 591 amendments. Next, 592nd. Don't insist. 593. Don't insist. 612. Don't insist. 613. 630. 624. Don't insist. 626th. Don't insist. 627. Don't insist. 629th. Don't insist. 637. Don't insist. 638. Don't insist. 639. Don't insist. 640 to 651, they don't insist. 653rd. Don't insist. 654th. Don't insist. 655th. Don't insist. Six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. Don't insist. From 657 to 668, they don't insist. 638. Please, People's Deputies of Semimenah.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u290	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens, this is one of the key rights, the so-called pension reform is not hidden, but it interferes with retirement age. And that needs to be honestly said to the citizens that those who are not actually going to have enough insurance, they're going to have an old retirement age. Today, we hear very often about justice. I'd like to ask the committee head of the profile minister. What are we talking about? Because this rule, first of all, is going to hit those people who worked in the '90s who weren't officially framed because of their guilt, some of them went abroad to work, but returned. And actually, on the shoulders of these people was the economy in the '90s, and it's these people that are going to be affected by this norm. So I insist on a right that prohibits the raising of retirement age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u291	Thank you. Will you comment from the committee, ma'am?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u292	Dear colleagues, the exclusion of this position will deprive you of the possibility of taking into account this internship from 2000 to 2016 for human beings, because they are all in the state register. It's the opposite of normal. It allows them to take into account all the data that is now in the insurance register. So we insist that there really be an editorial as in the government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u293	Thank you. We're continuing our work. Aah! Please. I'm sorry. You're insisting on the amendment. Please vote. Amendment No. 638. Vote. [[14:50:06]] For-21 The decision is not made. 653rd. Don't you insist? 639. Please, National Deputy Tetjana Ostrikav.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u294	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-Help faction. This amendment proposes to leave a valid version of article 24 of the Ukrainian Act "On compulsory government pension insurance", which refers to periods from which the insurance service is made up. This amendment is essentially technical and is also derived from proposals for exclusion from the draft law of regulations that increase insurance. I want to point out that according to the proposed changes, one night the insurance system increases by 10 years. You can't do that. Gradually, it was necessary to take steps, from year to year, gradually raising an insurance period that was linked to retirement and retirement. That is why I insist that this amendment be put to the vote. And, Your Honor, I ask you to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u295	Please vote. [[14:51:30.]] For-23 The decision is not made. 637. We'll come back again. National Deputy Royal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u296	Dear colleagues, in this amendment, the rule is that the actual increase in the pension is unacceptable. In his time, Tihypco increased his retirement age, which had a negative impact on the state of the pension system in Ukraine. And among the deputies in this room, only the lazy one did not criticize Mr. Tihyp. He criticized it for no reason; it was a wrong decision. And I, by the way, voted against it at the time. And that's why I now call under this law you're actually proposing to continue to increase the retirement age by increasing the retirement age. We understand that the government's dream is that people don't live to be retired. And the only thing that's missing in this bill is the borderline age before the government allows its citizens to live out their lives just to give people burial aid at their expense. In this. in this matter, I insist on voting for this amendment, and I also want our deputies to take responsibility for the promotion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u297	Thank you. Please vote. [[14:53:07]] For-13. The decision is not made. Amendment No. 655. 56th? None. Corrections number 657 to 668. Don't insist. Amendment 669. Don't insist. 670. Don't insist. From 672 to 683. Don't insist. Amendment No. 684. Don't insist. Amendment No. 685. Don't insist. Amendment No. 686. Don't insist. Amendment No. 687. Don't insist. 678. Don't insist. 689. Please, the Royal People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u298	I want to get your attention, this is one of the key norms of this reform -- the change in the number of pensions. Today, millions of pensioners will freeze their pensions. A change in the formula calculates pensions, it's like Pandora's box with unforeseeable consequences. Retirement pensioners will be recalculated and will be frozen by thousands for four years. Imagine the scale of the work that needs to be done, counting the pensions of 12 million Ukrainians, how many mistakes will be made, and how many people will not be able to achieve justice as a result of the human factor that inevitably leads to mistakes. To start with, we had to run a pilot project somewhere to work this mechanism, minimize risks. That is why we strongly deny it. And I also want to point out that even schoolchildren realize that when the coefficient changes from 1.35 to 1, it determines the reduction in pensions. We insist on confirming this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u299	Thank you. Please vote. [[14:55:13]] For the 15th. The decision is not made. Next line is number 690. Don't insist. 691s. Don't insist. 692th. Don't insist. 693. Beg the People's Deputy of Simeonach.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u300	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. First of all, I want to address all Ukrainian citizens who are watching or listening to this broadcast. In fact, one of the key novelties of the legislative initiative from the government, this is, listen all -- all new pensioners from 1 January 2018 to a third will be reduced by a new pension. Moreover, the people to whom today, the millions of people to whom today the government is calling for the modernisation of pensions, will also be made more than 1.35. We hear many words about justice again today. So explain to me, today you're talking about childishness, justice to make people pay their premiums. People who are now retired and counting their future pension at 1.35, you're killing a third of the pension to new pensioners, so where's the justice from the government?Oh, my God! I insist on my right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u301	Please vote. [[14:56:53]] For-30 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 694. Don't insist. 695. Please, People's Deputy Ostrikav.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u302	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-Help faction. The reduction proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers in the one-year estimate of the one-year period from 1.35 to 1 would, in our opinion, lead to a substantial reduction in pension pensions for retirees who will retire after the bill has become effective, by almost 30 percent, as colleagues have already pointed out, by one-third. This is clearly what the government is doing. Today’s pensioners are getting a little higher. But future pensioners are getting smaller at the expense of this pension. That's why it's probably because there's not enough funding for pensions, but that's why it's freezing for 2018. And the committee head told us only about the indexation in 2019. This conclusion is also confirmed by the recommendations of the parliamentary hearings of June 7th of this year, "Priority of observance of the insurance principles in the reform of the pension system." This is also pointed out by GNEU that this will narrow down the existing rights of our pensioners. That's why my amendment is meant to be an exception to the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u303	Thank you. Please vote. [[14:58:29]] For-27 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 696. Please, National Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u304	National Deputy Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. This amendment refers to a completely shameful innovation, a government innovation in reducing employment from 1.35 to 1.0. We've done the right thing with professional associations in Ukraine, and they're making a strong statement about the non-acceptance and non-adherence of this rule proposed in the pension reform. Another important ingredient. We stress the fundamental violation of article 22 of the Constitution, which guarantees to the common man that his rights, in particular the amount of his salary, the amount of his pension, the order of his payment, the time of his payment, are narrowed down in no way, nor under any circumstances. We insist on voting for this amendment. And in general, I wanted to draw the attention of our fellow citizens to an empty Parliamentary Hall. This is actually how we treat our pensioners, 12 million of our pensioners, who are responsible for the Supreme Council, the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u305	Please vote. [[15:00:09]] For-25 The decision is not taken. From 697 to 708, they don't insist. 709. Don't insist. 710. Don't insist. 711th, 712th. Don't insist. 713. Please, National Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u306	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, I'd like to express my deep. their deep sadness and regret about the fact that when we were being brought out of the hall recently, because there was some kind of inflammation, which unfortunately didn't cause this inflammation to be completely burned by this Supreme Council. I miss it so much. Because what this Supreme Council is now adopting is absolutely unacceptable, terrible things that millions of Ukrainians are doing. The effects that millions of Ukrainians will experience for decades to come. And so when it comes to reducing the corresponding rate of pension reform from 1.35 to 1, that actually proves the hypocrisy of these conversations of today's government about how it's supposed to be increased by now. So given that millions of Ukrainians in 10 years won't have any pension at all, and hundreds of thousands now, at the expense of this increase, will be minimal in fact, because the coefficient is decreasing and people are now actually getting not the thousands that Groisman promises, but 150-250 dollars. That's why we have to clean up this disgraceful thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u307	Thank you. Please vote. [[15:01:53]] For-31 The decision is not taken. And I want to report that as soon as our administrations reported it, they found the smell in the hall. It was a brief lockdown in one of the voting controls in the hall. I mean, it's okay, so the reason is fixed. Next amendment number 714. People. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] 714. Don't insist. 715th. Don't insist. 716th. Don't insist. 717. Don't insist. 717. He insists. Please, People's Deputy Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u308	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Ladies and gentlemen, in this case, we're looking at the correction that relates to the coefficient right now. And, indeed, it offends the fact that today's so-called coalition is trying to push in the law, in a global law that practically affects every Ukrainian, to reduce the coefficient. Today it's 1.35, it's almost 70 percent of the wage. It's said to be a unit, it's almost 50 percent, it's even more than 20 percent trying to steal from every working Ukrainian who's going to retire. Instead, I suggest you don't take the coefficient off, but you add 1.4. And so Freedom insists on supporting our amendment in order to increase the coefficient so that the person who has worked, especially for more than 40 years on hard jobs, gets a decent pension for his work. Request to support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u309	Thank you. Please vote. [[15:03:57]] For-34 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 719. Don't insist. And 720 doesn't insist. 719. National Deputy Ivchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u310	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, I understand that we will not find justice in this room. The righteous court to work was unjustly accepted because of the buttoning in this room. The justice that I want to pursue through this pension reform actually kills those people and counts their pensions that will come out from the following year. Well, think about how you can take and cut the insurance bill from 1.35 to 1.35. So 35 percent of next year's pensioner gets less than he gets out this year. Well, that's not fair. We've fought for it, and other factions are fighting for it so that we can really adopt a fair system and introduce a fair coefficient so that people can get a pension, take the Chernobylites. What are we going to do with this pension reform? Also, please tell us how many retirees will not be retired at all now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u311	Thank you. And please vote. [[15:05:39]] For-34 For -34. The decision is not made. Next, 720. Please, National Deputy Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u312	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Article 22 of the Constitution clearly stipulates that narrowing down existing and legally binding rights is not acceptable. This is the direct norm of the Constitution. Now this rule, the bill to amend certain pension laws, changes the ratio from 1.35 to 1.35. And in this way the rights of citizens to receive pensions are narrowed down, which is already enshrined in the law in force and which directly violates article 22 of the Constitution. So if we want Ukraine to look a little bit like the rule of law, let's not be so insolently trampling on the Constitution and on the rights and rights of people. What the faction of Fatherland proposes. And this is one of our key amendments. I'd like to think that if the MPs meet, because now they're all separated, when they meet in the session room, let's go back to normal and let the coefficient of 1.35 work. Please vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u313	Thank you. Please vote. [[15:07:11]] For-32 Z-32. The decision is not taken. Next: 721. May I have the Royal People's Deputies, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u314	Dear colleagues, accepting this amendment will allow for the further freezing of the increase in retirement age. And we insist that the retirement age for women should not continue to exceed at least the age of 58. And we all understand that this government, so-called reform, will not lead to an increase in pensions, because the coefficient is changing. As the government assures us, it will not improve the conditions for people to go on enjoying decent rest, and in contrast, by increasing their retirement age to 65 years, both for men and for women. And changing the formula will reduce the pension by an average of 25 to 30 percent. And so the lie that this reform is a rise in pensions is already understood by everyone. Therefore, please vote in favour of our amendment and do not support this pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u315	Please vote. [[15:08:36]] For-16 For-16. The decision is not taken. 722 repairs. Don't insist. 725th. People's Deputy Kaplan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u316	I'd like to use it. Sergey Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I would like to take the opportunity to contact all our audiences and audiences. Of course, it's not funny and funny when ten people's deputies present in Parliament today are discussing a document that's so effective for 12 million Ukrainians that will actually determine the course of the country that will determine the fate of millions of people, which, in fact, this country is built, is still able to exist. But why are we doing this? You all have to understand how fragile and unprofessional this option of pension reform is. Our political party, the Social-Democratic Party, the Socialist Party of Ukraine developed and introduced an alternative document, our option of pension reform, which, without prejudice to the national economy, envisioned the possibility of a substantial increase in pension levels, but based on detinization and delligarchization. Think about the next election, for.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u317	Thank you. Please vote. [[15:10:19]] For-19 The decision is not made. Next 741. 739. I'm sorry, 739th. People's Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u318	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. In fact, in this amendment, I'm trying to correct the main problem of this bill -- it's kind of a retirement raise. Because the point is that Groissmann suggests that from 1 January 2018, the minimum age should increase from 15 to 25 years, but further, there should be a further annual increase of one year each year, and from 2028, workers will need 35 years of service to retire at 60 years of age, or 15 years of retirement at 65 years of age. And that, by the way, is the expected average life expectancy for men in Ukraine for 2015 is 66-67 years. Here's what's proposed in this bill, actually. Instead of looking for finance, filling the state budget through the fight against transfer pricing, by cancelling various contracts with Cyprus, Luxembourg and Malta, through taxes on luxury, instead people are simply raising the retirement age to just make it less retirees. It's totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u319	Please vote. [[15:12:01]] For-34 The decision is not made. 740. Please, People's Deputy Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u320	Mikhaylo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 Ternopolska constituency. Dear colleagues, we've heard a lot of sweet words about this pension reform being a state of retirement. But we know very well that there is an active legislation that allows, and practically makes it possible today to index pensions and increase them. And today the minimum pension would be, according to inflation, 1 thousand 930 dollars, but the government and the government won't do it. Why won't he do it? Because their goal is to push out this amendment, and the main amendment, the goal, the artificial increase in retirement age, which predicts that, as of January 1, 2018, if a person has no insurance and not a 25-year-old job can't get out of retirement, that's a shame. I propose to reduce the requirement to 15 years of insurance to allow a person to just get out of January 1st at the age of 60. The rise in retirement age is artificial, which is now offered by the authorities, and it is unacceptable. So we urge you to support Freedom and our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u321	Please vote. [[15:13:30.]] For-35 The decision is not made. Next amendment 741. May I see the People's Deputies of Semimenah, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u322	Semenha Roman, Self-help faction. Dear colleagues, my rights deny the rise of retirement age. At people's meetings, people say, we used to think about how to survive retirement, now we're going to think about how to live to retirement? Today we hear about justice. I want all of us to answer how we're going to explain to people, especially to a man, the average age of living in Ukraine is 64-66 years, if for individual categories of men the age of retirement is now 65 years. Yes, in Europe, the average age of retirement in Europe is 63-67 years, but there is a very different average age of living, which is over 75 years and over. Therefore, would it not be more fair to introduce medical reform first, to fully restore primary health care, and only then to return, perhaps necessary, but not simply to discuss the rise of retirement age. Thank you. Please, I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u323	Please vote. [[15:14:52]] For-36 For -36. The decision is not made. Next amendment number 748, national MP. What's that? Yeah, 748, National Deputy Sisoyenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u324	The Self-Help faction requires a reduction in the size of the necessary insurance internship to determine the right to a pension in a solidarity system and to set a minimum pension. The government's proposed amount of necessary insurance for women for 30 years, and 35 years for men is too big not only to determine the right to a pension, but also to establish a minimum pension. So if an amendment to the Self-Help faction is not taken into account, then an adopted law can result in a loss of pension security rights for a large number of Ukrainian citizens. The reduction in the amount of insurance required to obtain pension entitlements, given the financial inability of many citizens, will in fact lead to an overcrowded increase in the retirement age, and in some cases will mean a de facto abolition of the pension entitlement of a large number of citizens of our state. So the Self-Help faction insists on adopting such an important amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u325	Thank you. Please vote. [[15:16:27]] For-37 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 749, National Deputy Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u326	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear TV setters and listeners! You know, a pensioner who's got 40 years of insurance this year gets a $1.35 pension. A pensioner who is 40 years of insurance next year will be able to calculate his pension at one. So 35 percent less is going to get it than the pensioner that's going to go out in 2017. It's such a fair novel. Another novelty, discussed by colleagues, will be raised immediately for 10 years, by 10 years, and then every year for one year, where justice will be restored. People need to understand clearly, at the very beginning of their employment, how old they are to work and when they retire. Today, we suggest that they work for another 20 years, knowing that they could retire in a year. It's embarrassing, please don't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u327	Please vote. [[15:17:57]] For-30 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 772. 772, please, the Royal People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u328	Honorary colleagues, incomprehensible only to the government and members of the coalition, that the problem of the Pension Fund can be solved today only by the way: by developing the economy, creating jobs and legalizing shadow employment. The government is now proposing to overcome the pension deficit by reducing pensions and increasing retirement age. But most importantly, I insist that the minimum pension may not be less than the minimum wage. And I also want to remind you that the draft budget for 2018 is set to a thousand 700 dollars. What kind of pension raise are you here telling us, officials of honor? It's the level of the least developed countries in Africa, but the government doesn't even want to pay those coins. So please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u329	Please vote. [[15:19:26]] For-23 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 773. Don't insist. 773, National Deputy Krulco, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u330	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues and chief, our retired Ukrainians! See what should be and what is the fact: in December 2017, the budget approved the subsistence minimum and, accordingly, the minimum pension at the age of 1373 bracelets. This is only 50.7 percent of the actual cost of living by methodology, that is, the minimum of living that is generated by the results of the prices at which the main products for living are bought. That's why we're like "Fatherland" to do justice and to make it a pension was responsible for at least the one that has to be minimal for. Counted by methodology, we suggest that. This amendment would allow pensioners, if they are over 25 years of age, to have a corresponding allowance and, at least in this way, for pensioners to be a little closer to what should be counted according to the methodology. Please support ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u331	Please vote. [[15:21:01]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 778, please. 87th. People's deputy Kugel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u332	Dear colleagues, the people of Ukraine! With our Fatherland readout, 771, we ask against allowing men to have a pension of 35 years and women to have a minimum of 30 years of living. Our bill insists that, with such an internship, there should not be a pension less than the minimum wage laid down in the Ukrainian State Budget Act for the year in question, that is all right. Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u333	Please vote. [[15:22:06]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Next 778, National Deputy Golovko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u334	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164th constituency, Ternopolish. Dear colleagues, it is really unacceptable today when a minimum pension of a thousand 373 bracelets is placed at the 2018 budget level and a subsistence minimum of a thousand 700 dollars. That is, of course, almost 60 percent of pensioners will be outside the poverty line, even according to the United Nations. But I am outraged by the fact that a person who has an internship: a man is 35 years old and a woman is 30 years old, in this bill you offer them a pension the size of a living minimum. I propose to let this rule go to 25 years of experience -- men and 20 years of age -- of women, because it's going to be much more fair. Because in these circumstances today, the survival you create, your authority, the Ukrainian people just can't and can't. So I urge you to support our amendment, and nothing today prevents you from doing, according to the government, indexation and raising pensions to a thousand 930 dollars, according to inflation, because you haven't done it in five years. We urge you to do so and you do not need to pass such a shameful law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u335	Thank you. Please vote. [[15:23:36]] For-26 The decision is not taken. Next 780 amendment, People's Chamberlain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u336	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, we believe that one of the few real alternative ways to get out of the pension crisis is to introduce a second mandatory state level. I'm extremely skeptical about the kind of amendment that was introduced with regard to mandatory implementation in the 19th year. However, it is sad that legislation remains standards that can discredit the role of the population at a cumulative level. First of all, this refers to the maintenance of a standard that provides that the minimum age pension in a solidarity system is actually reduced by the amount of the pension paid to the person at the expense of the funds to be charged to their accrual pension account or if the person is entitled to a pension abroad. So Amendment 780: I propose to rule out this discriminatory norm. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u337	Please vote. [[15:24:50]] For-33 The decision is not taken. Next amendment No. 808. Semenha. Oh, no? Don't insist. Next amendment to 823. Don't insist. Next amendment to 736. 823rd. Please, National Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u338	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This amendment refers again to the de facto rise in retirement age proposed by the government of Groysman, Dusty in this bill. I am now addressing all of our television audiences, radio audiences, the Ukrainian people, so that you can look closely at who is voting for this bill as a whole. This is especially true of those who will retire just after 10 years when the minimum insurance period is offered to rise to 35 years. It was those people, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians who worked without a workbook in the '90s, who worked their hands in the blood, made a penny for their children, right? – but their oligarchic employers did not make them legally or pay the appropriate premiums. So these people in 10 years, in fact, they won't get any pension at all, and they'll have to work up to 70, and maybe even more until they die just to make some money. This is what this legislation is now proposing. I call on all normal MPs not to vote, but people to watch who votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u339	Please vote. [[15:26:34]] For-32 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 836. National MP. Who's it gonna be? 836. Please, Yvchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u340	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished TV viewers, listeners, I want to say that the pension reform of the twelve-and-a-half million pensioners that are today, some of them, about 2 million 900 will be transferred to social insurance funds. They won't be retired anymore, they won't get a pension from the Pension Fund. They will receive direct assistance from the State, such a social contribution. But what do I have to say? They want to modernize pensions to other categories of citizens, which are 200 years old, which is 500 years old. So tell me, please, is this justice for those three million people? And every year now we will receive the dissatisfied with this pension reform of almost a hundred thousand people. This is 400,000 families that will be touched directly by this pension reform. It's also unfair, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u341	Please vote. [[15:28:07]] For-33 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 851. People's deputy of Semimenah, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u342	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, this bill is also aimed at excluding discriminatory standards related to higher retirement age. As long as the Ukrainian government is proposing to Ukrainian citizens to increase their retirement age, our neighbours, Poland, have been reducing pensions since October 1st of this year. And it doesn't talk about the impossibility of a second accumulation level; it's been introduced since 99, where today the average pension in Poland is more than 400 euros. The Ministry of Finance tells us that the implementation of the second level of accumulation is not possible in the context of the deficit of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. Look at the neighbouring Poland, there's a deficit in the Pension Fund, it's going to go up in absolute terms, but it's going down in relative numbers to an increase in the gross domestic product. Because that phrase to the government today means that the government doesn't want or are not ready to implement a second accumulation level. I'm asking you to support my work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u343	Please vote. [[15:29:30.]] For-34 The decision is not made. 837? Please, National Deputy Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u344	Dear colleagues, article 28 provides that of January 1, men aged 65 and over 35 years of age and women who, in women in their 30 ’ s, have a pension of 40 percent of the minimum wage. If you take 3,200 and 40 percent, you know what that is. And it goes on to say, "But not less than the minimum of living." Our proposal was to reject this norm and to be counted according to the law in force that we are going to adopt here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u345	Please vote. [[15:30:37.]] For-37 The decision is not made. 838. Please, National Deputy Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u346	Dear National MPs, this is 838 from Fatherland, which just predicts the burning things that here sounded from one of the faction leaders that can't be a pension less than the size of a living minimum. But we also added that the ratio of 1.18 should be applied, realizing that the minimum of living, which unfortunately is set by the Cabinet of Ministers without taking into account the law in force, does not correspond to today's subsistence basket to make a living. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u347	Please vote. [[15:31:44]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 853. Please, National Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u348	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I would like to draw attention to the unconstitutionality of this law in the context of the de facto increase in retirement age, if I'm right about the law, an increase in the necessary minimum insurance age. The thing is, if a person plans his life and knows how much he has to work to get a certain pension or retire at a certain time, he's planning his life one at a time. And she makes completely different life decisions than if she knew that there was a need for a much larger amount of insurance. Accordingly, hundreds of thousands of people, in fact, planned their lives one by one, and today the Supreme Council of Ukraine is proposing to put them before the fact that all their plans for the past few decades are absolutely worthless and they had to live in a completely different way. The people who are now 55-60 years old are going to be forced to do so now, and we don't know how these plans are going to change. It's completely unconstitutional, it's narrowing down existing rights and freedoms. That's why we can't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u349	Please vote. [[15:33:13]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 866. Please, National Deputy Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u350	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This is a joint amendment, like all others, made by the leader of our faction, Yulia Timoshenko, Yvchenk, and Krulk. And what I'd like to say is that in this amendment, well, notice, there's a hidden attempt to extend the retirement age to 65 years. Why? Because it is planned that the minimum retirement rate at the age of 40 percent of the minimum wage will be paid at the age of 65. That's why we're proposing as a "Paternity" faction that the help of such people is paid up to 60 years, and 60 years later, according to the rules laid down in the Law on State Social Assistance in Low-Supplied Families. And if there are national MPs in this room who really want the retirement age not to increase, vote for such amendments and vote for them in the final vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u351	Please vote. [[15:34:44]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number. We passed the 880s. Oh, 880s, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u352	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the government bill foresees a sufficiently progressive novel, namely, the repurchasing of a lack of insurance if it is not enough to retire. However, this initiative will not take into account the minimum retirement age for such a citizen. Such a rule does not make sense and violates the rights of insured persons, since the State, on the one hand, grants the right to buy an internship, and at the same time does not include or allow the internship to be used. That's why I'm asking you to support my application. I also ask Mrs. Denisov to comment on why my amendment is not taken into account, because in the way that it is, they are discrediting. The state offers to reacquire the internship, but at the same time it does not count. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u353	May I have a moment with the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u354	Dear colleague, your rights are practically taken into account after all the consultations have been held. That's the rule that was removed from the government bill, and it's going to be the norm that it is now. We can get this insurance internship back, just like we do now. This is no novelty. He will be counted, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u355	Please vote. You don't have to. Okay. Then the next amendment is 881. Don't insist. 896. Don't insist. 97th. 910. Don't insist. 911. Please, People's Deputy Ostrikav.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u356	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-Help faction. Dear colleagues, if I accept the amendment I have proposed, the rules will remain in force today to increase the amount of retirement by age in the event of the postponement of her appointment period, which is more favourable for the employee compared to what the draft law proposes, namely: for today, a person who has gained the right to retirement by age but who has shown a desire to work and receive a pension from a later age, the pension is set to increase the amount of retirement by age by the legal rate of each full month of retirement after reaching retirement age when retirement is postponed. Instead, the project is offered for every full month of insurance from the month following the month of retirement. So please don't narrow down the amount of rights that are currently in pensioners and put this amendment to the vote, and I ask my colleagues to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u357	Please vote. [[15:38:05]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 912. Please, National Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u358	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This amendment also refers to the attempt to remove the disgraceful idea of the government of Groysman-Dought to raise the de facto retirement age. Interestingly, in all public presentations, most government officials and representatives have little reason for doing so. They're just talking about some kind of raise, an increase in the pension they're going to get to the Ukrainians instead. Well, first of all, the pension raise would have to take place in any case under the Money Payment Index Act. That's the first one. And secondly, the raise is going to be marginal and even less than the index was. And thirdly, the question is, why doesn't anyone actually try to raise the government's income of the state budget, increase their income, in fact, so that there isn't this problem that they often say there's no money for just pensions? Why does the government not introduce laws on progressive taxation of the income of individuals? Why is it that the government does not pass bills on luxury taxes? Why is the government not dealing with transfer pricing? Why does the government not deal with corruption, in fact? Instead, you see, he's just trying to translate everything into poor pensioners.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u359	Please vote. [[15:39:36]] For-30 The decision is not made. Next 938. Don't insist. 952th. Please. 52nd? Okay. Now. 954th. Don't insist. 9th, then 57th. May I have the Royal People's Deputies, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u360	Dear colleagues, well, I think it's clear to everyone who hears us and sees us that our authorities need uneducated, ill people who don't live to their retirement. Because such educational reform, health reform and this pension reform cannot be adopted in any case. And here my colleagues have already repeatedly pointed out that when it comes to indexing, modernizing and increasing pensions, there are individual bills that we all unanimously support. And the fact that you're now creating a hybrid pension policy is only going to make the conditions of existing and future pensioners worse. That is why we will not vote in favour of this pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u361	Please vote. [[15:41:19]] For-19 To-19. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 958. Please: National Deputy Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u362	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this is a bill filed by Yulia Timoshenko. And I thank the committee for its support. She suggested that only one type of payment be removed for persons with disabilities as a result of an accident in production and occupational illness. Well, we were just offered either insurance or pensions. Thanks to Fatherland and Timoshenko, we're going to have people like that getting pensions and insurance payments. And that will be and that will be fair. Thank you to the committee for supporting this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u363	Please vote. Don't you insist? Okay. Take down the vote. 959th. Don't insist. 1022. 22nd. National Deputy Royal, are you insisting? 1022 revisions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u364	Dear colleagues. We're going back to the minimum issue of living. I insist that the pension can't be less than the minimum of living. The number of pensioners now receiving a social pension of less than a minimum pension is about 1 million 362,000. What's more, I'm drawing your attention to the fact that we have an official subsistence allowance at least twice as low as the actual one, which is also calculated by the Ministry of Social Policy. It's a nonsensus that claims to be on the Guinness Record Book. Nowhere in the world can people live on $30 to $40. And now you're offering a legal pension equal to $30 to $40. But in Ukraine more than 700,000 pensioners will receive less. Please support the amendment and balance the pension payment to the actual subsistence minimum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u365	1022. Yeah? Vote. [[15:44:05]] For-29 The decision is not made. Next 1024. Please. No, 1027. Don't insist. 1029th. Please, National Deputy Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u366	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Consider what was planned, and it was planned that children, such as miners, metallurgists, chemical workers, would be reduced in relation to the loss of a breadwinner. It is good that the committee has been able to maintain a standard and return all the social benefits that children have to pay in connection with the loss of a breadwinner of various such complex professions. I'm thanking my colleague, Alexander Kugel, who on the committee stood up for this norm and that's left in the law. So I'm also going to the committee, so let's fix the disadvantage and leave a valid 1.35 coefficient for pension and protect millions of Ukrainian pensioners. Please, this amendment is good that you have supported and please support our adjustments to the pensioner coefficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u367	Please vote. You don't have to? Okay. Then the next amendment is 1030. Don't insist. Please, the Royal People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u368	Dear colleagues! With a number of national MPs, we have managed to remove some of the egregious norms of the government's pension reform bill through amendments, thus protecting today's and future pensioners who receive a disability pension, keeping them both able to receive a pension and regressive payments, protecting their parents' right to receive a pension after losing a breadwinner, prevented them from introducing a standard of paying a higher rate of the only social contribution for workers. Well, all of this doesn't change the essence of this pension reform, the pension reform that it carries, in fact, a barter where Kabmin for the IMF tranche is accounted for by Ukrainian pensioners, so we're not going to vote for it. I'm not asking for confirmation of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u369	Thank you. Next amendment number 1057. Are you insisting? Yvchenka, Krulka. 1048? 1048 please return. The Royal People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u370	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you again. There are things that, despite the name of political power or political belief, spread to all. This reform cannot be adopted in any way, and you will suffer for it. An increase in the age of insurance and a change in the formula of pensions is totally unacceptable, which will only harm the pension system and future Ukrainian pensioners. So I ask that this amendment be confirmed and, in general, I appeal to all the MPs who are not in the majority of their seats right now not to vote in favour of this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u371	Thank you. And please vote. [[15:47:57]] For 20 The decision is not made. Next 1049. May I have the Royal People's Deputies, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u372	Dear colleagues, another nonsense from the government. People want to commit themselves to retirement, to confirm their insurance status with primary documents, and there are two components of the problem. If a person knew that they would have to provide a package of documents, they would have foreseen it, and during their work trip they would have collected it. And today they're told that we need the original documents from you, and the government doesn't tell us exactly what they're going to come up with. And there is a problem with uncontrollable territories, and today there is no way to get anything in the archive. No help, no more original documents. So this rule proposed by the government is actually paralyzing the right to a pension for millions of pensioners. So, I ask, in no way do I vote in favour of this pension reform and take this amendment into account and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u373	Please vote. [[15:49:25]] For-23 For - 23. The decision is not made. 1057 amendments, don't you think? 57th, Yvchenko, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u374	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! This is submitted by the People’s Deputies Timoshenko Julius Volodymyrna, Krulko John and Yvchenko Vadim. And what we're talking about is that the committee's editor is that in 2018 pensions will be determined by taking into account the average monthly salary in Ukraine for 2016 and 2017. So tell me, 2016 or 2017? So we clearly define what is proposed by this right. That salary is exactly what it's going to be like since March 1, 2017. It'll be clear, clear, and there won't be a delay. the hidden mechanism of delaying the payment deadlines for 2017. Please support the amendment or comment on the reasons for such differences over the years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u375	Please, vote. [[15:50:44]] For-31 For-31. The decision is not made. Next amendment number 1061. Please, National Deputy, King's Landing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u376	Dear colleagues! We go back to the same question of when farmers want to put themselves in such conditions when it's not convenient to do agrarian work. That is, the authorities simply want to drive farmers off the land so that they can turn it down and put it on the market. This is the first time in 20 years that we have changed the conditions of our Ukrainian farmers. And we all understand that all the conditions that the IMF gives us to open the market for land sales are now being invested in this pension reform, when with additional taxes you will do everything you can to prevent the farmer from working on our Ukrainian land. So I'm asking you to support Amendment 1061 and solve this issue in a complex way, without touching farmers or touching Ukrainian land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u377	Please vote. [[15:52:10]] For-21 The decision is not taken. Next 1064.1065 please National Deputy Kaplin. Capplin, please turn on the microphone. Maybe you didn't insert the card? The microphone's not working. It's working, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u378	Persecution of Socialists. National Deputy Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The level of the government and the International Monetary Fund of the Pension Reform Project is explained by the fact that the first option of this initiative was the norm that predicted the withdrawal of ballerine, attention, and retirement at 65 years of age. So imagine a 65-year-old ballerina on a spaghetti dance, showing Groisman and others. Your skill. Seriously, we're the same thing, there's a second rule about the elimination of pension indexation. Dear fellow countrymen, 12 million pensioners, the government is unfortunately depriving you of the ability to manually index your pensions and rely solely on the average wage. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u379	Please vote. [[15:54:03]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Next 1094. Please, National Deputy Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u380	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. And I would like to make it very clear here that indexing and modernising pensions are different things, not the same thing. The merger of indexation and the modernisation of pensions is designed to reduce the amount of modernisation and indexation of pensions. We stand firm as the "Fatherland" faction against bringing these things together. As a result of the increased average wage, pensions were made in Ukraine by 2012, no progress was made. Taking this into account, we propose to provide for clear rules on the modernisation of pensions and to apply a more effective and effective mechanism for such modernisation that was applied by 2012. Please vote on our amendment and renew the full modernization of pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u381	Please vote. [[15:55:22]] For-48 The decision is not taken. The next 1098 amendment, Mrs. Queen. Are you insisting? Please! Please follow through. 1098.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u382	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if you allow this standard to be accepted, no one will be required in our country except the government, because the Cabinet will decide everything: both the size of the pension, and the size of the salary, and everything will be judged by the Cabinet of Ministers. And now, by supporting this pension reform, you are canceling your responsibilities and abilities. That's why we won't vote for it. Please place this amendment on confirmation. And all those who are not in the room, I also want to point out that this is primarily going to be your responsibility, because now you're ruining pension guarantees for existing and future pensioners from the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u383	Please vote. [[15:56:48]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Next, please, 114th. Are you insisting? National Deputy Ivchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u384	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we propose that, as of October 1, 2017, in the event of an increase in the living minimum for those who have lost their legal capacity, as well as in the case of an increase in the minimum wage determined by law for the corresponding year, pensions are increased, calculated in accordance with this law, the recalculation of pensions is carried out from the date of the set new living minimum and minimum wage. The amendment was rejected by the committee. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u385	Please vote. [[15:57:57]] For-37 Decision taken. No, I'm sorry. Next amendment. [[Noise Nodes]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. The next amendment is 1268. Don't you insist? 1268. Don't insist. Okay. 1270. Please, National Deputy Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u386	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, the project is changing. The project of this pension reform changes the conditions for the granting of pensions on extended terms and in the course of years. First, there is an increase in the length and age of retirement for citizens who, for example, work on underground jobs, chemical enterprises that are listed in lists 1 and 2. This worsens the conditions of retirement. Second, such changes should be introduced gradually, at least five years before retirement, so that they can at least plan their future. The amendment proposes to exclude the relevant positions, rather than entrust the government with the preparation of a draft Law on the modification of the age of retirement on extended terms and years. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u387	Please vote. [[15:59:34]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Next amendment No. 1274. Please, People's Deputies of Semimenah.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u388	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the government bill substantially reduces the pension scheme for benefits. Indeed, such a system today needs reform. But as a result, not judges, for example, suffer from social security workers, serums of education, health care, which will be deprived of the right to a pension. Today, it is obvious that there is a need to review retirement for years, but a more balanced, reasonable approach is needed, and certainly not at the expense of teachers and doctors. My amendment is aimed at leaving pensions for seniority for the listed categories of citizens. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u389	Please vote. [[16:00:34]] For-47 The decision is not taken. And Amendment No. 1287. The Royal People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u390	Dear colleagues, the absurdity of this reform. I'd like to pay your attention for a moment. This is in the Education Reform Act, which we've been looking at here recently, we voted against it, but in that law, teachers had the right to retire early for years. Two weeks later, teachers have been deprived of this right by a pension reform. It's just nonsense. Whom do you want to command: Again, those who are healing, teaching, and those who are doing social work? Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this amendment. On the contrary, we owe you the privilege of supporting teachers, doctors, and social workers today, not making retirement more difficult for them. It is these people who depend on what our children will be like and what the future of our country will be like. Thank you. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u391	Thank you. I'll bet you an amendment of 287. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[16:02:03]] For-36 The decision is not made. So let's move on to the second part. And 200. A thousand and a half. A thousand 304. A thousand 310. Thousands of 3. 317. A thousand 325. Just give me a call when I get to the paperwork they're insisting on. A thousand and three hundred and A thousand 336. Three thousand and a half. Yes. Lechenko, please. Three thousand and a half. Then it will be, not yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u392	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This is the question that I'm raising right now, the article 115, actually, illustrates the very fine blasphemy of this bill. Because the offer the size of an insurance internship for the individual categories of citizens defined in this article is absolutely absurd. For example, there are citizens with hypophysician nanism, liliputs called so-called, so-called, disproportional dwarfs, people with disabilities in the eyes of the first group, blind people and persons with disabilities of childhood and groups, women who have given birth to five or more children and raised them to six years of age, and mothers of persons with disabilities from childhood who have raised them to the age they have. For all of these categories of persons, openly needed to be helped by the State, a completely stupid, insane amount of minimum retirement insurance is being established. It's totally unacceptable. And I'm proposing that we reduce these proposals to the government of Groysman Dustenka so that for those people who need the support of the state, there's still a normal size of insurance, not what's being offered here 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u393	I'm voting on Amendment 1341. It's rejected by the committee. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:04:20]] For-46 The decision is not made. Don't make a mistake. Next 1400, right? Semenha. 1357, Capplin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u394	Sergey Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'd like to pay attention to the people's deputies here, the need to take account of the interests and rights, the pension rights, the people who are actually working in the subway system under underground conditions, the construction of the metropolis. I believe that, and this is confirmed by the international standards, the statutes of the International Labour Organization, are supported by trade unions, that we should allow these people to receive adequate benefits when they retire, to qualify for employment. I ask my colleagues to vote and support this amendment, which has been drafted along with the Social Democratic Party, the trade unions and the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u395	I'm voting on Amendment 1357. It's rejected by the committee. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:05:42]] For-41 The decision is not made. 1394, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u396	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, I insist once again that we leave the existing standards of retirement for years. I've already said that we're going to be dealing with a lot of jobs, these are both milkmaids and pigs, and underground workers, subways, tractors, chemical enterprises, metallurgy, miners, education. This is a completely large list, which is now listed as one and two. We suggest we leave it. Because when people started working, they were counting on that kind of insurance. So I'm going to ask you to leave this rule in its proper form and to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u397	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 1394. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, please identify yourself. [[16:06:58]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 1392. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u398	Sugoniko Alexander, the Sumstina, the Social-Democratic Party. Dear colleagues! It is proposed to add paragraphs 9, 10 to sub-paragraph 30. Prior to the introduction of occupational pension systems to persons provided for in articles 52, 54 and 55 of the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act, pensions at the end of the year shall be granted for their appeal, subject to all the conditions provided for in the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act. I mean, honourable colleagues, it's suggested that we leave the existing rules on retirement for years. And the issue of further reforming this system will be considered when professional pension systems are put in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u399	Thank you. I'm willing to vote on Amendment 1392. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:08:21]] For-28 The decision is not taken. 1400. 1403. 1396, please, Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u400	Sergey Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Once again, I would like to take into account that there are now Ukrainian national deputies in the room to vote on a unique and extremely important, fantastic bill, the rule of retaining the right to retirement for years. It really applies to many teachers, doctors, people who work under unusual conditions and who give their lives each day, their health in order to build up our independent Ukraine. And I would like to point out separately why this rule is not accepted, why it does not vote. Just now, World Bank Director Satou Kahkonen has stated that they have agreed with the government's leadership on a project of appropriate pension reform. So let's say, by the Constitution, that we have the Emweife-President Republic, not.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u401	1396, the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[16:09:57]] For-42 The decision is not taken. 1409. Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u402	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the law suggests that the current system of pension benefits be maintained for teachers and doctors. Today, these two categories of workers have the lowest level of pay. The state does not provide them with decent working conditions. So saving your pension is what we have to do with you. My bill also supports the bill to preserve the government's proposed order to confirm the payment of insurance contributions for the assignment of pensions to military personnel. That is to say, military units for the duration of a person's service are to provide for the payment of the EUSC and to report on the payment to the EUSR person for the further calculation of pensions. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u403	We vote in favour of the 1409 amendment of the People's Deputy of Semimenha. Please. [[16:11:10]] For-44 44 votes. You're not getting your amendment. 1410, Ostrikova. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u404	Dear colleagues, it is proposed that the draft law be supplemented by the following content, which, within five years of the entry into force of this law, the military and the money-paying authorities have submitted to the Pension Fund no personalised information on the financial security and payment of insurance contributions for the period July 2000 to December 31st, 16th. This is done in order to include, for example, medical assistance to members of the military during the periods I have spoken and for which information is not available in the State Register of Stately Compulsory Social Insurance. Today, people with posters are also under the Supreme Council, and they ask: Why is it that military service is enrolled in the ATO? So I now ask the committee head to comment on what the ATO is as a result of this compromise. Thank you. And please put to the vote and support your colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u405	Mrs. Dennis, will you comment? Please give me a minute, Mrs. Dennis.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u406	Dear colleagues, when I noted in the introduction that there is an agreement and I will be. It's already in the text of the law, and I'm going to talk again under the transcript about the whole military service experience after December 31st, 17th, it's part of the insurance system regardless of the payment of the insurance premiums. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, military service, that's them in military service, that's where they served. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u407	Vote, please, 1410. Thank you for clarifying the committee’s head. [[16:13:16]] For-48 1416 Ostrikova. Don't you insist? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u408	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-Help faction. Dear colleagues, the bill is intended to maintain the value of one year of the insurance year 1.35 percent. Proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the decrease in the one-year estimate from 1.35 to one-unit will lead, as the various factions have repeatedly said here, to a substantial reduction in the number of pensions for new retirees who will retire after the law has become effective, by almost 30 percent, that is, a third. So I ask my amendment, which removes this from the vote, and I ask my colleagues to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u409	Vote 1416, Ostrike's amendment. [[16:14:20]] For-52 52 votes. No, no, no, no, no. Next Amendment 1417, Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u410	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This is the amendment that we propose to adopt and the rule that remains in the law and that is followed very well by manipulation. In addition to what my colleague Ostrikova said about the need to maintain the 1.35 coefficient, which is what Fatherland is talking about, this is one of the key amendments to this law, and there's another point here: the current pension plans to do, based on the size of the salary for 2014-2016. Why? To reduce this average monthly wage, and in this way the smallest amount to modernize pensions. We're proposing this amendment, first of all, to keep the ratio of 1.35, and secondly, let's upgrade the salary pensions for 2016 and in this way increase the real pension for retirees, not tell them what these laws are going to be. They're actually going to increase them. So I propose to support this amendment and stop manipulating it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u411	Vote, Amendment 1417. [[16:15:46.]] For-51 51 votes. He's not getting the necessary confirmation. Yeah, go on. 1418. We're going. Mrs. Kugel, I just don't understand what you were talking about for five minutes then, that you took it off the stand. 1418, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u412	..for your time, because you were gone, so you don't understand. Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. I'd like to put it now, 1418 and 1467, because this is a continuation of the subject that Mr. Krulko was talking about today. Simply according to the Constitution, the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, the President, do not have the right to make decisions that make existing legislation worse. We just passed the Education Law with you, which has been the way out for years. Just signed by the President, already in the Supreme Council, you're changing this bill now, teachers don't go for years. And that's what touches the coefficient of 1.35. He was accepted when the prime minister was Julia Timoshenko, the minister of social policy, Ludmila Denisov. But what I'm saying is, they helped all pensioners, two women, survive, because they prevented them from retiring from the inflation that was, without further adopting changes to laws and budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u413	Vote Amendment 1418, please. [[16:17:35]] For-51 51 votes. Your amendment is not supported. Let's move on. National MP Sisoyenko. Lechenko. Now. Leuchenko 1420. Please, National Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u414	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. What you have to point out is that, under the good slogans of retirement, there's actually going to be an increase in the de facto retirement age, but there's not going to be any increase in pensions. For example, in this paragraph, which I am now trying to correct with my amendment, the government of Prashenko, Groysman, prescribes that pensions granted under this law before the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts on the increase of pensions to today, yes, since October 1, 17th, are calculated with the application of the average wage from 2014 to 2016, as well as the ratio of one to one! – and now 1.35, the black in white is saying that the corresponding amount is decreasing, the corresponding formula, that is, the actual rise is not as big as people are telling. And if we talk about people who will retire in general since 1 January 2018, there is more.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u415	Please vote on the amendment of the 1420 People's Deputy Levchenk. [[16:19:13]] For-52 I didn't get the support you needed. People's deputy to Semimenach, 1435, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u416	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, my right suggests that the current pensioners be recalculated at the rate of the insurance period of just 1.35 instead of offering 1. Once again, I want to emphasize the attention of all citizens who listen because they watch our broadcast. This development, which the government tells us about, should take place, not at the effective 1.35 coefficient, but at the coefficient 1. Well, for example, it's going to cost a pensioner who's 35 years old, the difference in modernity is going to be about 1,000 dollars. The other one. I don't understand the logic of reducing the coefficient to one. Today, current legislation clearly states that if a country is introduced and operates three levels of the cumulative, second and third accumulation systems, the rate of assessment of the insurance system is 1.08. The government today does not implement the second responsibilities of the accumulation level, lowers the coefficient to one, or does this mean that the government is not going to introduce a second accumulation level. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u417	Thank you for your clarification. 1435 People's Deputies of Seminy amendment, please identify the hall. [[16:20:42]] For-53 Didn't get your support update. 1438. Capplin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u418	Sergey Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. We're also paying attention to the previous speaker, as the previous one, to the absolutely destructive rule of reducing the rate of the insurance train, translating into simple language, dear pensioners, you are 12.5 million, trying to rob you. It's the biggest affair in probably the last 15, 20 years, it's all been there, trying to increase Tihypco's retirement skills again in the International Monetary Fund agreement, break the pension system there, usurp control there. Today, at the legislative level, you have a standard that takes away a third of your hard work, your bees, your bees made. That's why we're calling on the Social Democratic Party, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, and the trade unions present here to the MPs, especially the attention of the Mayors, to vote and remove these sins for voting for this shameful reform and norms.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u419	We vote, please, the amendment of the 1438 People's Deputies of Kaplin. [[16:22:14]] For-50 50 votes. Not supported. 1441, Kugel. Don't insist. Next. 1457, Yvchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u420	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, look, the pensioner who will retire this year, he'll have a pension with an average salary for 2014 and 2016, and he'll have 3,000 764 bracelets. I want to remind you that in 2016 it's 5,200, which is one and a half thousand less. This is a government manipulation that wants to reduce the amount of pensions. So the amendment provides for the modernisation of pensions, coming from the average monthly wage in the field of economics in the previous year. "Paternity" insists that that's how it's going to be fair and that's how it's going to be defined for pensions, and that's going to be fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u421	1457, please identify yourself. [[16:23:34]] For-46 46 votes. No correction supported. 1461, Capplin, Sugonako. Please, Sugonyako, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u422	Sugoniko Alexander, the Sumstina, the Social-Democratic Party. Dear colleagues, paragraphs 19 and 20 of paragraph 4.4 are proposed in the following edition, "from 1 October 2017 to 31 December 2020, the estimate of one year of the one year of the one year of the one year of the one year of the one year of the one-tier period shall be applied in the assignment of the pension." It's very principled, it's what the unions insist on, it's what the Socialist and Social Democratic Party supports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u423	Please vote, room be determined, 1461 Kaplin, Sugonako. [[16:24:40]] For-51 Not supported, your amendment, 51 votes. 1466, Semenha, Ostrkova, I can't see, they don't insist. 1467, Kugel, don't insist. 1418, Kugel, don't insist. Now, now, we haven't gotten to 97 yet. 1496, Semimenach, does not insist. 1497, Capplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u424	Sergey Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I would like to pay attention to an extremely important, principled norm. In the future, dear pensioners, the decision to index your pension will be made by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And no automatic increase in indexation according to your average wage is planned. We're talking to the audience now. You don't have to tell stories here. We're now addressing the senior officials present, asking you, if you'd like, to vote on this norm and protect the ordinary Ukrainian pensioners. And once again, after voting on this pension reform, the Social Democratic Party, together with the Socialist Party of Ukraine, will issue an emergency release of our newspaper, Tovarish, in which we will publish the names of all without exception the national MPs who will accept this simply terrible, catastrophic, murderous pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u425	If you'll excuse me, colleagues. Vote for Amendment 1497. [[16:26:35]] For-50 Not supported. Next Kugel 1501. Don't insist, Mrs. Kugel. Coosel, 1516. Don't insist. 1546, Yvchenko, Eutusek Don't insist. Royal, 1559. The King's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u426	Dear colleagues, what is happening today, some people will freeze their pension and not index it by 2021, some people will raise their pension, think about 61 bracelets, at the rate offered in the 2018 budget project it's almost two dollars. And that's because we've had our prices, our tariffs, our social products and our pensions cancelled by 2021, and we're not going to change. That's what you call a pension raise, that's what you call a pension reform. That's why we now insist that we index and raise pensions according to existing legislation and not manipulate this reform, and not call it a pension increase, because it's just abuse of today's and future pensioners. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u427	Please vote for the amendment made by Mrs. Queen 1559. We're on our way. [[16:28:23]] For-45 No support, 45 votes. Next Semenha, 1561. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u428	Semenha Roman, self-help faction. Dear colleagues, my right is to deal more fairly with the issue of women's pensions, which were granted early in 55 years, in accordance with paragraph 7 of Section XV of the Final Provisions Act of Ukraine, "On a mandatory State Pension Insurance". For such women who are assigned pensions in the early part of their 55 ’ s, the law provides for a reduction in pensions. Currently, 195 thousand women receive reduced pensions in Ukraine, with 104 thousand women receiving a pension of less than a living minimum. The amendment is intended to establish a minimum pension payment for such women at a level not below the subsistence minimum for persons who have lost their legal capacity. Please support and restore justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u429	Please identify the room with regard to amendment 1561. [[16:29:34]] For-56 56 votes, not supported. The next 1564, Mrs. Ostrkova, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u430	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-Help faction. This bill is essentially derived from the proposal to exclude from the draft Law provisions that increase insurance internships. It's suggested that we don't actually change the wording of paragraph 7 prime. 2 The Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Publicly Compulsory State Pension Insurance. Please support her. If so. The government is constantly presenting this bill as fair. So if this amendment is not taken into account and is supported by a hall, I propose that the bill be amended to read "the law on pension increases and increases in the retirement and retirement age of new pensioners." But we are for justice, so let us tell people the truth about what we give to one and what we take from others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u431	Please be determined with regard to the 1564 Ostrich revision. [[16:30:42.]] For-65 No support, 65 votes. Semenha, next amendment 1577. Don't insist. Next: Royal, 1578. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u432	Dear colleagues, well, it is clear that only one way to cure the pension system and make the pension fund ineffective is by restoring the economy, creating jobs and paying a decent salary and, of course, legalizing shadow employment. The way to increase your insurance, which is to increase your retirement age, limit your pensions, the way that you forbid teachers, doctors, social workers to retire early is not the way that the Pension Fund saves today. And that's why we're asking you, and there's still time to fix this project a little bit and support the adjustments that will ensure that women retire at least 58 years of age. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u433	Please identify yourself with respect to amendment 1578 of the Royal. [[16:32:13]] For-54 No correction supported. Next, 1585, Caplin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u434	Sergey Kaplan is the head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'd like to draw the attention of my colleagues here to the violation of the rights of civil servants, employees of organs. local authorities. For 27 years, we paid them small wages. People were hoping that the national economy would be saved and that there would be a decent pension -- this is not the case, their interests are completely disregarded. Of course, the International Monetary Fund, the owner of today’s government and parliament, claims that there is no money. So we're pointing out in Manifesto our left democratic European forces, which was adopted on October 1st, where to take the money. First, the reprivatization of enterprises where owners have failed to meet their privatisation obligations to ordinary people. Seizure of property belonging to owners who have received businesses through corrupt schemes and at a materially low cost. Transferling funds to politicians, officials, prosecutors, judges, other declarants, according to legislation after checking their declarations, to social needs. The implementation of the policy of severe economic delinquency, maximum criminalization.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u435	Please identify the deputies for amendment 1585. [[16:33:42]] For-50 No amendment, 50 votes. The next amendment we're going to make is 1601. Yvchenko. 1601. Don't insist. The next amendment we make is 1615. Cooge. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] 1615. Please, Alexandra Volodymyrno Kugel microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u436	Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention to my 1716 ruling, because it preserves a valid drafting of the law and does not raise the retirement age for women personally. There's a hidden norm that increases. No, it's been six months since 2004, and now it's only a year before it jumps and increases a year for women. In addition, just in short: keep an active line. And that's why I'm asking you to support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u437	Thank you. Please identify yourself as to the amendment of 1615, Mrs. Kugel. [[16:35:01]] For-63 63 votes. He's not making any adjustments. Your amendment doesn't get votes. Next, 1617. It's a royal one. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u438	Dear colleagues, thousands of people who believed the state, trusted the system and worked their entire lives for the state, got a salary below the market, and paid higher social contributions for higher pensions, they're about to be deprived of that right. Do you think that's right? This is the destruction of the principles of public service. And it's not about ministers, it's not about MPs, it's about ordinary civil servants. Therefore, we offer to compensate people for the excess payments they have already paid. Or give a transitional period for civil servants to decide whether they want to continue working in the public ministry for a meager wage, sacrificing their health and nerves. This, once again, will undermine the prestige of the public service. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u439	Please vote in favour of amendment 1617 to the Royal. Please make up your mind. [[16:36:30.]] For-44 Your amendment is not supported. 1631, Yvchenko. Don't insist. No, no, I don't. Let me see. 1631 rejected. It's rejected, 1631. 1673, Royal. Are you insisting? The King's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u440	I'd like to draw your attention again, dear colleagues. Today, civil servants who have worked their entire lives for the benefit of Ukraine, regardless of who was in power, who was the President, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Council, were doing their work every day. And it's not about the ministers, it's not about you, honourable deputies. And now you're just ordinary civil servants who have a special right to retire because you've paid off the excess size of the EU, you're canceling their legal pension. So thousands of people who believed the state, trusted the system, worked their entire lives for the state, got wages below the market, are now going to be completely deprived of this legitimate constitutional right. I ask you to support this amendment and protect our civil servants who have worked and worked for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u441	Please vote in favour of amendment 1673, set up in the hall. In the hall, you'll be able to identify yourself. The King's Amendment. [[16:38:34]] For-50 Not supported by your amendment, 50 votes. Next, Mrs. Royal, 1675. Are you insisting? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u442	Dear colleagues, today there are hundreds of thousands of people living in uncontrollable territories who, because of different circumstances, are unable to move to controlled territory, and there are various causes, health, and lack of funds, and many other problems. In the vast majority, they are grandparents, and people with limited capabilities. They simply cannot move, register as immigrants, and receive help, and so on. Today, they have been deprived of their pensions. We propose this amendment to settle the issue and thus to implement the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, which obliged the government to renew pension payments to Ukrainian citizens living in temporarily uncontrollable territories. Please support this amendment and establish justice for all Ukrainian citizens, regardless of their city of residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u443	Please determine the hall, after the amendment of 1675, the Royal. [[16:39:59]] For-38 Not supported by your amendment, 38 votes. 1692, Yvchenko. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u444	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this is a bill filed by Yulia Timoshenko, Deputy John Krulko and myself. What is she talking about? She says to establish that the sums of pensions that the pensioner was entitled to, but did not receive in connection with the stay in the temporarily unsupervised state of Ukraine of the territory of Donetsk and Luhansk region, are paid in the past without any limitation after the return of State control over the specified areas. My colleagues, I hope that this is where we worked on the committee, and it's for the Fatherland administration that we fought, the committee supported, and the government supported. I thank you for taking into account the revision that was proposed by Fatherland. And all of these people will be paid pensions that have not been paid temporarily from the territory of Donetsk and Lugansk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u445	Please determine the number for this amendment, and, I'm sorry, I've been distracted by an important discussion on pension reform, we've been exchanging thoughts. 1693, Semenha. Don't insist. 1695, Capplin. Is he insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u446	Sergey Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. So I realized that the coalition intends to reform the pension for the last living pensioner. Imagine, none of the rights offered today by the opposition to protect the interests of the common people, to protect their pension rights, were accepted. This demonstrates the level of debate and the content of Parliament, where individual factions of government have been usurped and have today bought the favor of other factions in Parliament in order to carry on this emweif pension reform. See how you vote and draw conclusions. The International Monetary Fund, intimidated in a corrupt way by "pressing against the wall" by individual political forces, factions in parliament today, has established control over the Ukrainian Parliament! It's an encroachment on the sovereignty of our state, on its independence. And today there is no parliament! This is the Department of the International Monetary Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u447	I'm sorry. We're going to be determined, please. 1695, Caplin's amendment. Here we go. Colleagues, everyone's asking when there's gonna be a vote. It's hard for me to say. But I think half an hour is the maximum. So gather quietly in the session room. [[16:42:50]] For-37 No correction supported. Royal, 1698. Don't insist. Ostrikova, 1700. Don't insist. Coosel, 1716. Don't insist. 1717, Yvchenko. Please, Ivchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u448	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, we were able to modernize and raise pensions by law, and current legislation allows this to happen. And it's working. We were able to abolish the taxation of working pensioners, which the Yatsenuk government has disgraced. And we could have done that in a separate law, and we have the people's deputies. Instead, the government offers us justice. 35 years of employment, the government is offering us a 30 percent reduction in the rate of retirement. The government is offering us to throw out 2 million people and pay them a social contribution, a minimum of State support. That's what they're offering us. It's not reform at all today, it's kind of an optimisation, at the expense of some people, that's going to raise the pension a little bit. To our great conviction, we have to work on this reform, and the Fatherland will not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u449	Please define the 1717 correction. [[16:44:35]] For-49 She doesn't vote. 49 votes. Semenha, 1718. Don't insist. Ostrikova, 1719. Don't insist. 1719. 1720, Royal. Don't insist. Leuchenko, 1759. Don't insist. Thank you, Mr. Levchenko. Head, I'm sorry, he doesn't insist either. Cooge. 1763. Don't insist. Semenha, 1764. Microphone, please, Mr. Semensi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u450	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, this right over here is a visual demonstration of all the so-called justice in government initiatives. The government's bill is significantly making it worse for coal miners to retire. To date, the minimum pension rate of an interned miner is set at least 15 years independently of the last job of 80 percent of the average wage of a miner. The bill proposes to establish that any wage for employment is taken into account, which is usually less than the miner's salary. According to the State Statistics Service, the average wage in 2017 was 27 percent higher than in other sectors of the economy. So my right is to leave the rules in place and to give miners at least the pension they deserve today under current legislation. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u451	Please vote. We define 1764 as the amendment of Simeoniah. [[16:46:27]] For-58 58 votes. It doesn't take the necessary amount of repairs. Colleagues, I missed the 1647 amendment, which Mrs. Ptashnik insists on. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone, 1647. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u452	Thank you. Dear colleagues, my amendment concerns that those who have received the title of Doctor of Science, Doctor of Philosophy, or candidate of science, but in their dissertation, plagiarism, be deprived of the right to a scientific pension. I think it's unfair and unfair if such pseudoscientists, actually using plagiarism, and it was a recognized fact, and they were actually depriving themselves of a title, they had the right to a scientific supplement. The committee didn't take this into account, but I'm still asking you to put it to a vote and support the amendment. I think it's fair, honestly and actually I support those scientists who actually achieve scientific supplements exclusively by their minds, not by using other people's dissertations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u453	Please make up your mind about Mrs. Bird’s clarification of its 1647 revision. [[16:47:53]] For-68 Your amendment is not supported. 68 votes. 1780, Royal. Nope. Please. I see you, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u454	1766 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u455	Oh, I'm sorry, yes, yes, 1766 your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u456	I'm asking you to restart time.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u457	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u458	I remember the day in this room 446 deputies voted in favour of the Mining Work Act. This law was prepared along with Yuhim Zviagilski, Michael Wolinz, Andri Kozemiakin, and Viktor Turmanov. It was a record vote of 446 deputies and a real victory for coal workers. Then, instead of the ministers, the heroes of Ukraine, the heroes of the miners, were sitting in the government bed. Today, our ministers meet with an anthem to meet barges with American and African coals. This shame had not yet been known to the country even in the crisis year 2008. Ladies and gentlemen, are we going to feed African miners by taking the last penny from our miners? I ask you to support this amendment and leave all the rights guaranteed by the law on the prestige of mining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u459	1766. Please identify yourself on this amendment. [[16:49:39]] For-52 He doesn't vote. 52 votes. Next 1780, Royal. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 1781, Levechenko. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u460	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. This bill proposal, in fact, shows very well that instead of looking for a source of government budget income, by paying normal pensions, the government, on the other hand, offers preferences to the richest groups of the population. The bill proposes to increase the maximum amount from which the only social contribution is paid to 15 minimum wages, as of today 48,000 dollars. But in fact, it would be appropriate to abolish any such restriction at all, because, in fact, it was necessary to introduce, on the contrary, the only progressive tax on citizens' income that would include in today's PFC, and the EU, which would be progressive and which would not have had an upper limit. That would properly fill the budget and thus be able to pay the right pensions, fair, not this pit you're offering. Instead, you suggest that all who receive more than 48,000 dollars for this additional revenue will not be paid by the EU. That's bullshit. It's totally unacceptable, and I suggest you clean it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u461	Please make up your mind about Bill 17. Oh, about 1781 amendments, I'm sorry. Amendments to the bill. [[16:51:18]] For-50 50 votes. Not supported. 1782, Ostrikova. Don't insist. 1795, Capplin. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u462	Sergey Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. This amendment refers to inequality and injustice. In the pay of the EU between a simple person and government officials, in particular the Naftogazu Manager, the head of state-owned enterprises and other state-owned monopolies, who will receive a salary of up to a million United States dollars. We propose that, in changing this pension reform, we anticipate the abolition of the current maximum amount of the single contribution base as an unfair discriminatory norm, which makes it impossible for persons who receive millions of wages to pay at a decent level contributions to the Pension Fund, which leads to a deficit in the Pension Fund. At the same time, it is initiated by a government, a previous government, such as Yatzenuk, to tax the pensions of Ukrainian citizens. This inequality needs to be corrected. Millionaires, heads of state-owned Naftogazu enterprises, have to pay a high level of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u463	Please vote. We're going to fix 1795. Please. Colleagues, we are approaching the finish line, so please return to the hall. [[16:52:54]] For-58 58th. No correction supported. 1797, Royal. Don't insist. 1801, Kugel. Don't insist. 1802, Royal. Don't insist. 1803, Royal. Don't insist. 1804, Royal. Don't insist. 1805, Kugel. Do Not Urge 1829. It's a royal one. Don't insist. Cooge. 1830. Don't insist. 1831. Don't insist. It's a royal one. 1833. Semenha. Don't insist. Ostrikova. 1834. Mrs. Ostrecki's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u464	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Aunt Ostrikova, Self-Help faction. I'm going to talk about two amendments, 1834 and 1836, which apply to the fact that the current revision of article 10 of the Pension Insurance Act provides for the possibility of a one-time payment to the EUSR person in previous periods where a person was not subject to a compulsory national social insurance. Under the draft law, the proposed amount of the ERUs for each month of such a period cannot be less than the minimum premium increased by a coefficient of 2 or 1,5, i.e. the amount paid by the EES is substantially increasing. I'm told that the committee has listened to the proposals of the people's deputies, and I've taken this amendment into account, so I'm asking you not to put it to a vote, but to allow the committee head to confirm whether or not the proposals of the national deputies are taken into account and to correct the amendments accordingly in the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u465	Please vote in order. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You just sounded it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u466	Let the committee head explain the position, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u467	Consultations have been held and your amendments are taken into account, and they remain the same as they are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u468	Thank you. Don't you insist on voting? Don't insist. Please make the next correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u469	Yes, colleagues, we're moving on, that's amendment 1835. We have about 15-20 amendments left. 1835. National Deputy Yvchenko. Is he insisting? Please. Yvchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u470	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! I'd like to say, another manipulation is, for example, people who don't get a proper job, they're going to be offered two more years to increase their social pay, social assistance, that is, today they can get 63, they're going to increase by 65. And I'd like you and I to understand clearly what will happen to future pensioners from next year? This is 10 years, this is directly going to be translated into other forms of non-retirement fund payments, and the ratio is going to be reduced by 30 percent. I'd like you and I to think about today, what's going to happen, directly, the tax withdrawals that the opposition factions were talking about, it might be a separate law. And modernity, this is legislation and government has to do it, it's its functional duties directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u471	Let's vote on the 1835 revision of Yvchenka. [[16:56:36]] For-60 Your amendment is not supported. 60 votes. Next 1836, Ostrikova. Don't insist. Next 1861, Kugel. Don't insist. Next, 1863. Don't insist. 1865. Don't insist. Now, Semenha - 1866, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u472	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, in order to ensure the rights of persons of pre-pensional age, the bill proposes quotas for enterprises for their employment. In general, the principle of quota is a source of debate, including discussion in this room. And we already know that, for example, the principle of quota that is applied today to people with disabilities is causing a lot of discrimination and, in fact, to the levelling of the principle itself. In individual locations, business is actually deprived of the right to hire such people, just physically there are no such people. And so the huge question is, in this way, to stimulate business. But if you go through quota, you have to at least make individual conditions for different types of businesses. So with this readjustment, I'm offering a differentiation to employ people who are 10 years old and older before retirement. This will balance this proposal to existing realities at least a little bit. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u473	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote amendment in 1866, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[16:58:17]] For-65 65. The decision is not made. 1908, 1910, 1908, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u474	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. It's about making changes to the Public Prosecutor's Act. It is stated that prosecutors have the opportunity to have additional pension insurance provided through the Non-State Pension Insurance Act, but it is not clear which contributions will be made to non-State pension insurance. If this is done voluntarily, it should be noted in these standards. Given the above, we suggest in the bill that we make it very clear that the supplementary pension is voluntary, on the basis of our own income. I propose to uphold this norm and correct this inadequacy, which is indicated in the current norm that came out of the committee in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u475	I'm putting to the vote amendment in 1908, and the committee has rejected it, so please be my guest. [[16:59:40]] For-60 60. The decision is not made. 1917, 1918, 1939, 1948, 19. not yet reached, 1969, please, Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u476	It's a very important amendment that predicts that the victim, who has both the right to insurance and the right to retire, has withdrawn the committee and supported the "Paternity" amendment, which is to rule out that he should have chosen only one kind of payment. Thank you to the committee and the ministry for leaving the rights and social benefits and pensions to the disabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u477	Thank you. This amendment is taken into account, so I understand that it will not be put to the vote. 1976, 1977, 1980, 1982, 1985, 1988, please. 1988, Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u478	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, it's a very important readjustment. The bill provides for the cancellation of special pensions for scientists, especially cynically looking at the setting up of new judges' pensions, my rights as a scientist in this part. According to the 2017 budget, the difference in pension benefits for science and teaching workers is 46.5 million dollars, the budget is not that big an amount, and the pension of scientific workers is not an article of expenditure that needs to be saved. I strongly believe that there is no future without science in the country, so I ask you to support and preserve pensions for scientists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u479	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of amendment 1988. The committee has turned her down, who supports it, please vote. [[17:01:51]] For-59 The decision is not taken. I'm sorry, 85 revisions I've already called you weren't in the hall. I've already called her we've already passed her. You're going to have a lot of rights as far as I can see. 2031, please, Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u480	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I'll tell you right away, Mr. Head, I've removed almost all the revisions, so I'm going to speak three ways, maybe not in the text or in the content of the amendment itself. Now I want to remind you of the situation when the past government canceled food for the Chernobyl children in the fourth zone. Well, if it wasn't there, the past government, and this government absolutely wouldn't want to see the fourth category, let's say, the tax category in one or the other social programs. Similarly, this government expressly prohibited early retirement from those living in Category IV. I mean, Ludmila Leontovno, what we discussed with you, you say, in Concha-Spas, then maybe we would commit to you this government that doesn't treat the fourth category so well, let them do a study of where children get sick, where older, older people get sick more in one area or another, and then they've already made that decision. Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u481	I'm betting a vote, the committee rejected it. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:03:35]] For-53 The decision is not taken. 2034, Royal. [[B in m in s a l in]] I already did. Then.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u482	Dear colleagues, the logic of the bill is that everything that's bad is going to work now, and all that's good can be a little bit later. We insist that this bill remove the rules that deprive metallurgy, miners, chemists and other members of the dual profession of retirement. And that's totally unacceptable. Such individuals need to be restored to their early retirement and left in the care of teachers and health and social workers. Honorable fellow workers, have a conscience! You don't have to make it worse for people to retire now, because there's no work. And the fact that you're introducing quotas for employers isn't going to help. Leave people the right to retire when they are of normal age! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u483	I'll bet the vote on Amendment 2034. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[17:05:01]] For-64 62, no decision taken. 2002, Sugonyako, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u484	Sugoniko Alexander, the Sumstina, the Social-Democratic Party. Dear colleagues, it is proposed in the following direction to paragraph 29 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities, article 37 of the paper: "The State sets up for scientific, scientific and educational workers who have the necessary degree in scientific work, pensions at the level that ensures the prestige of scientific work. It's proposed to support prestige and scientific work and scientific and technical activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u485	Thank you. I bet on the vote of amendment 2002. The committee rejected her. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:06:12]] For-76 The decision is not taken. 2064. 2065. 2064, please, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u486	Thank you. Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, with the right, we propose that the pension for the loss of a breadwinner be granted from the actual amount of pension that the breadwinner received on the day of death, in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. Instead, it is not the actual size of the pension that the breadwinner received on the day of death that the pension he is entitled to, but the size of the pension that he is entitled to, according to the law of Ukraine, that is to say, that the pension for the loss of a breadwinner should not be based on the actual size of the pension he receives on the day of his death. So we're proposing by amendment a legislative solution to this issue and establishing that the pension for the loss of a breadwinner is based on the actual amount of pension that the breadwinner received on the day of death. Please support this revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u487	I'll bet you 2064. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:07:32]] For-66 The decision is not taken. 2066. 20. Royal, please 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u488	Dear colleagues, starting in 2015.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u489	Edith, call it a readout, Mrs. Natala.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u490	What?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u491	What's the change, the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u492	2066.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u493	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u494	Since 2015, the authorities have been robbing the word of working pensioners, taking 15 percent of their pensions, or even depriving them of their pensions. Thank God, it's come to you that there's no efficiency in this for the Pension Fund, and now you're suggesting that you cancel it. That's right, of course. But one second! During this time, you took 4.5 of their pensions from each working pensioner. And we insist that the state should compensate people for their losses as a result of a non-professional government. So I ask you to support this amendment and compensate people for the money you took from working pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u495	Thank you. I'm betting on the 2066 vote. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[17:09:00]] For-52 The decision is not made. 2104. 2104! Please, Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u496	In June 2016, you deprived metallurgists, miners, chemists, and others of the most important professions of retirement. You are now depriving teachers, social workers, and health workers of the right to a retirement pension. Dear colleagues! There are no jobs in the country today. The economy is down. Please leave these people alone who have already paid their health for the right to retire on time and live peacefully in their country. Therefore, we insist that the right of metallurgy workers, miners, chemists, health workers, and health workers and teachers be left with the right to a pension. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u497	I bet on the vote of Amendment 2104. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[17:10:23]] For-59 The decision is not made. Guys, there's only a few left. In five or seven minutes, the vote will take place. So I'm asking the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite deputies into the Hall, and I'm asking all the factions to invite deputies into the Chamber to make a decision. Please take this vote with great responsibility and discipline. 2113. Don't insist. Don't yell, don't shout. 2113. Deputy Ostrikov, please. 12, Captain, and then Ostrika's. Please, 12th, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u498	Thank you. 2113. Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. At 2112 Ostrich. In this case, this amendment relates to the audit of the Ministry of Pensions. More specifically, the Minnesota Pension Fund claimed that, in principle, such an audit had been carried out. But the question is that neither politicians nor society know on what basis it was made, which were the methodological foundations of the audit. So we insist that any pension reform should begin, first of all, with an audit. This test should be re-examined, and this requirement should be laid down in the current legislation. The Kabin has the right to establish methodological principles for the conduct of the audit, that is, the order of the audit, but the obligation to carry out it must be established at the legislative level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u499	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 2113. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[17:12:21]] Z-70. The decision is not made. And 2112, People's Deputy Ostrikav. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u500	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-Help faction. Dear colleagues, on the first reading of the bill, Minister Reva announced under the transcript that he was taking into account the "self-help" requirement. That's why we supported this bill to create a state-wide register of recipients of social benefits, benefits, subsidies, pensions, other payments made at the expense of government and local budgets. And it is essential that this register be integrated with other government registers, especially death, death, and so forth, that we have the mad thefts that are on counterfeit and valid passports to stop at the Pension Fund. So it's very important what this register is going to be like. So my amendment is only partially accounted for. I insist that it be taken fully into account, as Minister Reva promised us in the vote in the first reading. To make use of this register, not for billions of credit costs, of the personal offices of EU payers and recipients of pensions that are currently in the Ukrainian Pension Fund. And to run the register in three years.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u501	Ten seconds as an exception.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u502	And to get the register started not after three years, but on March 1st, we saw in an automated register an automated order of verifications of the recipients. So I very much ask that this amendment, as promised by the minister, be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u503	Thank you. Amendment 2113 shall be put to the vote. The committee turned her down. I counted part of it. Should she be put to the vote or not? Don't put it. I'm not putting her to the vote. And, colleagues, there are three revisions left. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. 2128. Royal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u504	I don't insist on voting on this amendment because it doesn't make any sense. Dear colleagues, there's almost no change in this room from the Opposition Block, from me, has been supported. The Opposition Block will not vote in favour of this pension reform, because the government pension reform is a barter where Kabmin for the 2 billion tranche of the IMF is calculated by active and future Ukrainian pensioners. I'm addressing you, dear colleagues, if you're really so concerned about our pensioners, and for their future, don't vote for this pension reform, it's total deception and no improvement, and you won't get any answers, you'll make retirement conditions worse for people. So we urge you not to vote for this pension reform and we will not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u505	Please. He doesn't insist on voting. 2141. Semenha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u506	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the 2141 bill is intended not to turn into a proponent for the audit of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. The amendment clearly normalizes the term and conditions of such an audit with the involvement of international audit firms. We propose to conduct an independent evaluation of the activities of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the period 2014 - 2017 to obtain objective data on its status and to meet income and expenditure standards, problems and shortcomings. The moderator of the audit should be a well - known international organization with appropriate work experience. The result of the work of such auditors should be made public and public to taxpayers, all citizens of Ukraine, heard by the Supreme Council of Ukraine no later than April 1, 2018. This is the only way we can collect objective data on what is happening today at the Ukrainian Pension Fund. And this is one of the most important prerequisites for overcoming the deficit of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u507	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 2141. The committee turned her down. Please make up your mind. [[17:16:54]] For-81 The decision is not taken. And please, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u508	Thank you very much. I don't really have that many amendments, just three. So I'm asking you to give me the opportunity to speak on each of them, they're fundamentally important. Now I want to go back to Amendment 2127, which sets the time limits for the audit of the Pension Fund. I'll do it again. In fact, there's a bill that sets out a lot of new constraints that could reduce the pension deficit. At the same time, carrying out a truly effective, proper audit could remove the problem of "dead souls" and the problem of paying off unpersonal, unpersonal payments. And this, it's estimated, could actually reduce this deficit from about 15 to 20 percent. That's why we insisted in principle, not just me, but also Mrs. Ostrikova and Semenach, that the audit should be conducted. And this is the first step that the cospopolitans have to take in three months. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u509	So, Mrs. Olena, it's partly accounted for. How Can I Vote? 2127 is written in part. That's how I see it. Vote or Not? Okay. Then I'll put it to a vote. Who supports the Captain's proposal to vote it out in full. So who is in favour of fully supporting the amendment, please vote. The committee counted in part. Please. [[17:18:49]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Please take the next step, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u510	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction, 2142. It's also partially accounted for, but it's not included, more specifically, in the key part, it's about creating a register of natural persons. But it's not just about creating a register, it's about defining what should be included directly in that register. It is also important that this register should be integrated with other state registers in order to be as adequate and appropriate as possible today. Unfortunately, the committee, when it considered this, did not include the second part of my amendment, where there should be personal data of persons entitled to receive pensions, the size, the output data that was used for the size of the pension, and so on. So I insist that we actually have other registers in practice, and these registers are legally defined, what are the criteria that are included in these registers. Therefore, I would like to support the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u511	Ms. Ludmila, comment, please, so that we know how to get out of that colossus. Because the committee has taken part, and Mrs. Helena insists entirely. Please, Mrs. Ludmila.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u512	You know, we've been dealing with this issue of creating a single register on the committee for almost two years. And we also support you in what the register needs to be done on the basis that it already is and that it's done. We have repeatedly taken a decision by the committee and this decision was a parliamentary hearing to actually register on the basis of a register of insured persons who are currently at the Pension Fund of Ukraine. In July 2014, an agreement was signed between the Government of Ukraine and the World Bank to create such a register. In the 14th year and so far, not in the 15th, not in the 16th and not in the 17th. And it's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u513	Ten minutes, ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u514	This tender, you know, but the train is there now. And that's why we decided to write it that way, and we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u515	Thank you, Mrs. Ludmila. I've got the position. In fact, I would like to point out that the proposal is partially taken into account, and Mrs. Helen asks that it be taken into account. I'm voting on the proposal. He's taking it off. Agreed. See how well it is when the dialogue is in the hall. And your next amendment, Mrs. Helena? Please turn on the microphone. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u516	Thank you very much. My last amendment is 2147 and refers to the general principles of auditing. Again, it is very important. First, the periodicity, because we understand that the question is not that this audit has been conducted once, but that, once again, there is a new pension reform that should not be carried out. So this has to be periodically installed to avoid systemic disruptions during the operation of the pension system. And it should also be made clear what is being checked by the audit, because it will depend on how much the audit is in keeping with the interests that we, as national deputies, are obliged to protect, including by being here in Parliament. So my amendment clearly regulates what should be the outcome of the audit of the Pension Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u517	I ask Mrs. Ludmila to comment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u518	You know, the audit was conducted by the Pension Fund the last of this House of Accounts. If you've seen, yes, this audit, there are really moments that need to be determined. This bill clearly states that an audit will be conducted. And who's going to do the auditions, well, you have to determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u519	Do you insist on voting, Mrs. Helen? He insists on voting? I'm putting to the vote Amendment 2147, and the committee has rejected it, who supports it, I'm asking you to vote. [[17:23:57]] Z-77 The decision is not made. Now, the first Head lifts. Head, then Ostrick, then Yvchenko, then Eutusek. Mr. Mikhail, turn on the microphone, Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u520	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164th constituency, Ternopolish. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make another amendment to my 1761 and say this law, it's really a social injustice not only that here and the coefficients you're trying to introduce a unit that almost 35 percent of the people's pensions since 1 January will be stolen, that they're refusing to index pensions and that's allowing the government to do that today, under the law and the minimum pension could already be 2,000 bracelets, and you're simply banning the increase in retirement by 5 years because from 1 January, if a person doesn't have 25 years of insurance and not working, he can't retire, and the insurance internship just started in 2004. You automatically artificially raise your retirement age and deprive Ukrainians of the right to retire and receive a decent pension. Therefore, we urge you to support and vote in favour of our amendment and not to vote in favour of the same law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u521	Thank you. Mr. Mikhailo, we don't go back to the right; we call each one. But if you have an insistence, I'll put it to a vote. Yes. But we're not coming back, so don't take any more of these initiatives. And I'm betting on a 1761 vote, and the committee was rejected. Please vote, please make up your mind. [[17:25:45.]] For-83 83. The decision is not taken. Now, please, Mrs. Ostrikova Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u522	2148.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u523	Please, 2148.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u524	Dear colleagues, Tetjana Ostrkova, Self-Help faction. Amendment 2148 refers to the audit of the Pension Fund, not the one conducted by the Court of Auditors, which, without the heads and without the members of the trustees, but to the 14th and 17th years of the Democratic Authority, when, despite the democraticity of that power, there was a huge dissipation of the Pension Fund's funds, and so that the audit was conducted by an international audience chosen at the competition. Because the government is producing a thesis on the inadequacy of the Pension Fund. In fact, this reform will not lead to inadequacy, but will lead to a stable deficit. We see in the 18th-year budget before a penny the same figure of the pension deficit that was budgeted in the 17th year. And this overcoming of this deficit can only be incurred by increasing the tax burden on the economy, on entrepreneurs, which is unacceptable. I also want to say that we are looking at a bill that the minister is not in the room. I'd like to go to Minister Reva right now and ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u525	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u526	Ask Minister Reva: Will my generation, the people who are now 30-40 years old, be entitled to a pension? When will he personally assume his responsibility? When imported.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u527	Please, Mrs. Ludmila, 2148. What will be your position?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u528	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u529	48, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u530	Dear colleagues, no one is talking about it being an audit of the Court of Auditors. It's already done. And if this is an international audit, you have to figure out who's going to pay for it, because that's the cost. This is what we have to anticipate in the state budget to order such an audit. And, dear colleague, I've come to this rostrum since 1991 from the Pension Fund of Ukraine. And I don't agree with you that only those who steal money are sitting there who misdirect this money. Four hundred and twenty thousand cases were checked, and only in the 56th were errors found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u531	Do you insist on voting? He insists. I'm betting on a 2148 vote, and the committee rejected it. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[17:28:38]] For-80 The decision is not made. Colleagues, two adjustments left, we're not coming back. It's going to be 2149-50 Capplin. We've already passed them, colleagues. Let's do one. Okay. Anyway, Capplin, then you. Please, Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u532	Sergey Capplin. Head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I can answer a question about whether my self-help colleagues are going to be conducting an audit. The audit will be conducted by the State Audit Service created by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which checks it and they pay him a salary, and they appoint the director of this service. And obviously, even out of 10 million cases, there's going to be a violation in the 2nd and 3rd, no international audits, regardless of their relevance and importance, there won't be. Once again, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Social Democratic Party and the trade unions, we claim that this reform does not have any macro-economic fabrication, just through nationalization, reprivatization, expropriation, orderliness in the country, we can achieve the return of everything stolen from our pensioners. The pensioners, and their 12 and a half million, deserve to be turned, not in the back, but in the face! They deserve, not a 30-dollar pension, like in Africa, but a normal pension.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u533	2149-50, vote. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[17:30:38]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, we have two, three revisions left. All right, colleagues, three readouts, and we're not going back to anything. I'll give everyone a minute, and, colleagues, in five minutes we're going to vote. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. And I'll give it a minute. Yvchenko one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u534	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I want you all to understand, "The Fatherland" for us to abolish the taxation of working pensioners, we have passed the appropriate bill 2845. "Paternality" for us to carry out the modernisation of pensions, and believe me, it has to be done by any government, to modernize pensions twice a year. But we're against introducing a new coefficient and reducing the number of pensions by almost 30 percent. We're against what's being introduced, not 100 percent of the pension index, according to inflation, but the reduced coefficient. We are also opposed to people not being entitled to a retirement benefit for years, especially those who have been working for many years. So if the requirements of Fatherland are met and taken into account, we're ready to support, no, we said why not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u535	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we can ask everyone to lower the atmosphere in the hall because it's hard to work. Please pay attention to all sectors, please. Colleagues, we are now voting for the amendment made by Yvchenko. And once again, we're talking to our colleagues, let's respect the atmosphere in the room. Please don't shout, quietly, we vote, we don't scream, and we vote just to calm everyone down.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u536	So, colleagues, two last revisions. Ivan Krulko, but call the editing number, please, and speak on the subject of editing, please. Call me Krulko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u537	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Unfortunately, dear colleagues, this bill, which deals with pension insurance, does not solve the key problem. The key problem is that Ukrainian pensioners receive just pensions. The pension has to be equal to the minimum subsistence minimum that the methodology determines is the minimum that people can last at least a month. Unfortunately, this bill does not solve this problem, and the reduction in the rate of insurance from 1.35 to one, generally takes 30 percent of their pensions away from Ukrainian pensioners who will retire in the future. Of course, such positions are totally unacceptable to the Fatherland faction. And once again, we turn to return and vote on those norms that will solve the problem of fair pensions for Ukrainian pensioners.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u538	Thank you. I. Colleagues, the latest issue of 2151 national deputy Eutuska, after which the closing word from the committee, the closing word from the government, I want to report that Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groisman has arrived in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Hello. [[Applause]] And the final amendment, please read out the national deputy, Mr. Sergio Eutuska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u539	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to draw attention to what is currently going on in the session room, direct blackmail by the government in relation to the national MPs, where the bill has minimally positive, let's say, things like the tax cancellation of 15 percent on working pensioners, some other not significant innovations that improve the situation there. Although this has been regulated by the legislative initiatives of the Fatherland. I want to say that as the district representative that the Chernobyls, the ones that live in the fourth zone, won't give me the right, because you're about to be out of retirement. To support this reform, so I, myself, and the faction will not support this reform, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u540	Do you insist on voting? No, he doesn't insist on voting. So we're done talking about 2151 revisions, and now I'm inviting you to the final word, first the committee head -- three minutes and then the government representative -- three minutes too. Please, Mrs. Ludmila, please summarize our discussion on pension reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u541	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u542	Please, Mrs. Ludmila.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u543	My fellow Members, I am very grateful that we have passed all the amendments very quickly and have discussed almost this bill, which will indeed be a pension reform. Once again, I want to tell you that 10 million of our citizens are now awaiting an increase in pensions. You know, on Sunday I was in the Capital Market, and there people are asking me, when it happens, we've already counted, counted and spent your expenses that you're predicting. The expansion of the pensions of 5.6 million of our citizens is an average of 700 dollars, an increase in the minimum pension by 140 dollars, and that's going to be 1 thousand 452 dollars. Women who have retired for the term have been reduced by the pension reform that was in 2011 and will also receive a fair pension, their earned pension. All of these, who for many years receive 949 dollars, will also receive a pension no less than a living minimum. And that's why I think if all the allegations that the government could do it itself, the government could do a lot, but without us, it would be impossible to increase pensions and modernize pensions. You and I have increased their size, and now, if we vote, this is where the Head of the Pension Fund sits, he'll be very pleased, because if the President signs the pension reform to push the release button and all pensioners count the pension from October 1st, I'll read it under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u544	Please, you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u545	Yes, and if a person works harder he'll get a pension that's also justice, and if he doesn't work and he can't work and he'll be supported by the state. So please support the pension reform of the President, the government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for that!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u546	I ask you, Mrs. Ludmila, to read the summary of our discussion and ask the MPs to listen carefully because this text under the transcript will be voted on. I ask you to read, Mrs. Ludmila, the consistent text.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u547	First I'm going to read what we agreed on and then I'm going to read under the transcript how it's going to be in the law. Now I'm reading a paper from the Radical Party called Oleg Lacha, who's already done all this. I read: Paragraph 19, 22 of paragraph 26 of section 19 and of the bill “The Final Position” of the Ukrainian Law on “The General Compulsory Pension Insurance” should be amended as follows: “3.1. In order to determine the entitlement to pensions under article 26 of this Act, the periods of entrepreneurship with the application of the simplified system of taxation from 1 January 1998 to 30 June 2000 shall include, inter alia, the reference to the registration of the entity of entrepreneurship; from July 2000 to December 31, 2017, including the payment of insurance premiums irrespective of the amount paid, except in cases of dismissal, the refusal of payment of a single contribution." Paragraph 26, paragraph 26, of Section 19 and of Bill 3.1. End-of-life status of the Ukrainian National Pension Insurance Act, which reads as follows: "Teaching in public professionally. No! No! In public higher education institutions, on a day-to-day basis, public procurement and postgraduate education, doctorate from 1 January 2004 to 2017 included." Paragraph 28 of paragraph 26 of section 19 of the bill and paragraph 4 of paragraph 4 of the bill. 3 "The Ending Positions" of Ukraine's "On a General Compulsory State Pension Insurance" Act, in the following edition: "In carrying out the recalculation of pensions, in accordance with paragraph 1, this paragraph uses the minimum subsistence allowance for persons who have lost their jobs, as set at December 1, 2017, increased by 79 gross."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u548	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u549	Well, what about you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u550	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u551	about the government budget, increased by 79 dollars. To supplement paragraph 26 of section 19 of the Act and section 7 of bill 2 of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on State Pension Insurance with paragraph 40 of the following content: “The amount of the pension assigned to this paragraph may not be less than the amount of the subsistence minimum for persons who have lost their jobs. [[Applause]] They're defined by law." Paragraph 7, 9 of paragraph 7 of section 22 of the bill and paragraph 1 of section 5 of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting for a Single Contribution to a General Compulsory State Social Insurance, should read: “The Voluntary Participation Agreement may provide for a one-time payment by a single contributor. In previous periods in which a person was not subject to compulsory State social insurance, including from 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2010, the amount of the single contribution paid for each month of such a period cannot be less than the minimum insurance. times the coefficient.".. () [[B in m in s a l in]] In relation to these paragraphs 10, 11, consider paragraphs 8, 9. Paragraph. The first paragraph of section II of the draft law on "Towards and Transitions" reads as follows: "To establish that, as of 1 October 2017, the amount of subsistence minimum, which will be greater than the amount fixed on 1 December 2017, shall be increased by 79 dollars in the determination and recalculation of pensions, allowances, increases, other pension payments established by legislation, shall be increased by 79 dollars in the amount of living minimum for persons who have lost their jobs, as set out in the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2017." To supplement section III of the draft law on "Ending and Transitional Positions" with paragraph 3.1 of the following content: "3.1. To establish that State social assistance granted in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on State social assistance for disabled children and children and on State social assistance for persons who do not have the right to a pension and disabled persons from 1 October 2017 are listed and after that date, to a fixed minimum of living, which will be greater than the one established on 1 December 2017, increased by 79 December 2017, is to use a minimum of living for persons who have lost their jobs, as set out in the Ukrainian Act on the National Budget for Ukraine for 2017, which was increased by 79 December 2017. To supplement chapter III of the draft law on "Towards and Transitional Positions" with paragraph 5.1 of the following content: "5.1. To establish that pensions and state social assistance for disabled persons from childhood and children with disabilities, persons who do not have the right to a pension, including allowances, promotions, supplementary pensions, end-of-service financial assistance, indexation and other pension benefits, are established by legislation other than special merit before Ukraine, listed from 1 October 2017 in accordance with this law, and those who will be assigned after that date, are set to no less than the amount of living minimum for persons who have lost their jobs, as defined by the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2017" established by the state of December 1, 2017 in the event of an increase after December 1, 2017 in the amount of working life of persons who have lost their jobs as a minor. Also. Yeah, that's it. Now I'm reading again under the transcript. Please listen carefully and please, well, a little silence. The second is the sixth sub-paragraph of the first paragraph of Chapter I and replace the following with three paragraphs: Paragraph 5 and the sixth part of the first edition reads: "The sums of payments made in accordance with the legislation of compulsory public social insurance other than monthly insurance, payments to victims of payments for the necessary care of victims and members of their families of pensions, which are indexed according to the law, under these types of insurance. Amounts of compensation for damage caused to a natural person by disability or other damage to health, as well as sums paid to persons entitled to compensation in the event of loss of a breadwinner, other than the amount of payments made in accordance with the legislation on compulsory public social insurance. ” Section I, paragraph 19, after paragraph 4, add the following new sub-item: "Absac 1 part of the first article 12 after the words "including" add to the words "persons who are taught in higher education institutions in the daily form of education, as well as in postgraduate and doctoral education". Paragraph 12 of the paragraphs. Subparagraph 26 of section 19 and add the words "and also applying a fixed tax." Paragraph 26, paragraph 26, of Section 19 and delete. Paragraph 28 of paragraph 26 of section 19 and add the words "increased by 79 bracelets." Paragraph 13 of paragraph 26 of section 19 and add the following sentence to the sentence: "If, at the same rate, the individual wage ratio and.. How important it is that you listen to me! to the length of the pension scheme in the 18th year, calculated according to the same figures, will be less than the pension set in the 18th year, calculated in accordance with paragraph 1 of this paragraph, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine decides to increase the average earnings rate in Ukraine, which is used for the assignment of the pension from 1 January 18 to 31 December 18 in such a way that the pensions assigned during the specified period will not be less than those assigned from 1 January 17th to 31 December 17th. Paragraph 32, paragraph 26, of section I, reads as follows: "In 19-20 years, the average wage rate in Ukraine, which pays the insurance premiums applied to the recalculation of pensions, increases by a factor corresponding to 50 per cent of the increase in consumer prices in the previous year and 50 per cent of the increase in average earnings in Ukraine, which pays the insurance premiums in the year preceding the year in which the increase is compared to.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u552	Allow the committee's head to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u553	I'll read. Section 19, paragraph 26, and after paragraph 39, add the following new paragraph: "The amount of pension assigned to this paragraph may not be less than the amount of subsistence minimum for persons who have lost their jobs defined by law." Paragraph seventh, ninth paragraph of Sub-paragraph 22 of Chapter 22 and replace the following with the following paragraph: "A voluntary participation agreement may provide for a single payment by a person for previous periods for which a person was not subject to compulsory public social insurance, including between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 10th. The amount of a single contribution paid each month of such a period cannot be less than the minimum amount multiplied by.".. In the first paragraph of section III, "Ending and transitional positions", insert the following entry: "This Act shall take effect from the day following its publication, except paragraphs 1, 2 of Subparagraphs 1 and 2; paragraph 1 of Subparagraphs 4 and 5; paragraph 2 of Subparagraph 3; paragraph 3; paragraphs 2, 3, 5, 6, paragraph 6; paragraphs 7, 10, 14-16; paragraphs 10 and 21 of paragraphs 27, 29; paragraphs 34-38, 65-71 of Subparagraph 26 of paragraph 19; paragraphs 24, 26, 28, 30 of Section I of this Act and paragraph 2 of Section I of this Act, which shall take effect from the day following its publication, and shall apply from the first week of October 2017. Subparagraph 2, paragraph 2, paragraph 8, subparagraphs 1-3 12, paragraph 13, paragraph 17, paragraphs 25, 26 and 74, paragraph 75, paragraph 26 19, paragraph 1, paragraph 8, paragraph 3, paragraph 7, paragraph 22, paragraph 23, Section I, which takes effect on 1 January 2018. Subparagraph 13, Subparagraph 27, Section I of this Act, which takes effect on January 1, 2021. Paragraph 2 of Section II of the Final and Transitional Positions states in the following wording: "Set that from 1 October 2017 until the establishment of the living minimum, which will be greater than the one set on 1 December 2017, to an increase of 79 dollars. The definition and recalculation of pensions, allowances, allowances, other pension payments established by legislation uses the living minimum for persons who have lost their jobs as of December 1, 2017, which was increased by 79." Chapter III of the Final and Transitional Positions after paragraph 2 add a new paragraph to the following sentence: "Install that State social assistance granted in accordance with the laws of Ukraine "For State social assistance to disabled persons from childhood and children with disabilities", "For State social assistance to persons who do not have the right to a pension and disabled persons" from October 1, 2017 is listed after this date until the new living minimum, which will be greater than the one set at December 1, 2017, has been increased by 79. The minimum of living for persons who have lost their jobs, set up on December 1, 2017 by the National Budget Act of Ukraine for 2017, is set to increase by 17 December. Taking into account the amendment of 1894, which is in effect pending amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Pension Insurance for Military Workers. Paragraph 3 of Section III, paragraph 3, “To the end and transitional positions”, reads: “Temporary State social assistance to a non-working person who has reached the general retirement age but has not obtained the right to a pension payment, is intended to take into account the average monthly total income in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and is paid at the expense of the state budget.” Chapter III of the Final and Transitional Positions after paragraph 3 adds a new paragraph to the following: "To establish that pensions and state social assistance to disabled persons from childhood, children with disabilities, persons who do not have the right to a pension, including allowances, promotions, supplementary pensions, targeted financial assistance, indexation and other pensions established by legislation other than special benefits before Ukraine, listed from October 1, 2017 in accordance with this law, and those to be assigned after that date shall be set at least the size of the subsistence minimum for persons who have lost their jobs as set out in the Ukrainian National Budget Act for Ukraine for 2017." And in the event of an increase after December 1, 2017, the subsistence minimum for all those who have lost their jobs cannot be less than the living minimum for those who have lost their jobs as defined by law." Paragraph 6, paragraph 1, of Section III, “Towards and transitional positions”, reads as follows: “To renegotiate the cost of the State budget to pay a single social contribution to persons defined in paragraph 1 of paragraph 5 of this section”. Paragraph 6 of Section III, Subparagraph 4, “Final and transitional positions”, should be supplemented by a new paragraph: “To work on the issue of the conclusion by Ukraine of international pension agreements with countries with which the most labour migrants of Ukrainian citizens”. And I would also like to ask the Chief Legal Office and the secretariat of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to introduce technical and legal remedies in the drafting of the bill. Thank you all!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u554	Thank you. It's been a long time, it's been hard. I understand all the changes have been made. I understand there have been some changes in the working group, the unification of dates. Now the closing word, three minutes from the government, is Vladimir Groissman. And let's go to the vote. Three minutes to vote. Everyone, please come into the hall and take your seats. Please, Vladimir Borisovich Groissman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u555	Thank you. Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished and dear fellow national deputies! I think that now you and I are going to make a truly historic decision to establish a just pension system in our country. This is very difficult, but this responsible decision will allow at least 9 million Ukrainian pensioners to increase pensions in October as promised. I would like to say that from this very month, a fair pension system will be set up: there will be an elimination of the balance, there will be an elimination of the pension tax. We'll do everything we can to make the pensions of Ukrainian pensioners increase systematically. But this becomes possible when there is your support. So I ask everyone, literally every deputy, to give his voice, to press the green button, and to make this really historic decision in the name of Ukrainian citizens. Mr. President of the Supreme Council, I would like to thank you very much for your position. I want to thank you, colleagues, the Peter Poshenko Block, the People's Front, the radical faction of Oleg Lachka, I know that colleagues from Self-Help, Rebirth, non-fractional deputies, colleagues from the People's Will. Friends, I think it is our duty today to vote for this important and just reform. Thank you, too, President. We all, Parliament, President, Government, have to do this. Dear friends, thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u556	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. An important historic decision of the Ukrainian Parliament, I ask everyone to vote responsibly and I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on pension increases (No.6614) in the second reading and in general with the rights read by the head of the committee Ludmila Denisov of the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the transcript, and with technical law. Please vote, please support. We'll support the pensioners! We'll support the pension increase! Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:58:07]] For 288 288-yes. The law is passed. Welcome to the government. Welcome to the Minister. Welcome to the committee of Ludmila Dennisov for an important job. Please don't break up, colleagues, don't break up. One law passed, we need to adopt the order of the day session so that we can move on to other issues. Please don't go out, colleagues. I'm asking you to come back to the hall. Colleagues, please return to the hall. We have the order of the day session, please remain seated. Without that, we will not be able to move on to the next issue of pension reform. I would like to point out that at the Conciliation Council, we discussed and corrected all the factions from the factions into the order of the day session. As far as I know, most factions will support it. And I ask that you now vote to maintain the order of the day session. Please take up your jobs, colleagues. Please prepare for the vote. Don't leave the hall so that we can move on to other issues and tomorrow before the ratification, we need to vote now. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm putting to the vote the draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Seventh Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call was finalized, which was discussed at the Conciliation Council (7068) so that we can move on to first reading issues. Colleagues, all proposals have been taken into account, please vote. Please support 7068, colleagues. Please be disciplined to vote. Please be supportive. We vote, please, every voice has weight. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please maintain the order of the day. [[18:00]] For 216 Nine votes. I see. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u557	I see. Please come in and get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u558	I'm asking you to get ready. I see. Please prepare for the vote. I put to the vote the draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Seventh Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call completed (7068). Please vote, please support. Colleagues, please vote, please support. Please vote, colleagues, every vote. I ask you to vote with discipline. Vote, colleagues, carefully, every voice. I beg you, Mr. Prime Minister, allow the MPs to vote. Please support, vote, colleagues, 7068. Please maintain the order of the day session. We vote, each voice has a weight. I'm asking you to support everyone. Let's vote, colleagues. Please include the vote. Vote. [[18:01:21]] For the 220. Six votes. Colleagues, pay attention! Colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking everyone to calm down. I have signals that don't work on the card. Colleagues, I'm also asking that a number of deputies require us to include 6763.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u559	I see the system doesn't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u560	Colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking everyone to take a seat. I'm asking the technical services to study why the system doesn't work. Everyone please take up their jobs. My colleagues, I want to remind you, we've had a discussion and we've included all the proposals and committees and factions. I'm going to put the vote again, if it doesn't work, I'm going to call everyone. Mustafa, if it doesn't work out now, I'll call out a lot of other suggestions. But I'm asking you to understand the logic, we've now included proposals from committees and factions. I'm going to put it to the vote again, and I'm going to ask the camera to see what the technical problems are and why there's no voting. If there are no votes, we'll start calling the bill from the premises. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. I'm going to ask everyone to take up jobs, and if there's no committee and faction proposals, I'm going to start calling the complementary bills. Please, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take a job, we count every vote, you can talk to the government later, please, everyone take a job. I'm going to put the agreed offer again, if it doesn't work out, then I'm going to put the proposal out of the voice. No, I'll vote if it doesn't, because there were warnings about technical voting. So I'm putting to the vote first a bill of order, consistent with committees and factions, 7068. Please vote, please support 7068. Please vote, please support, everyone vote carefully. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[18:04:15]] For 215 The system's not working. Colleagues, pay attention! I see the system isn't working. Colleagues! Attention! Colleagues, I'd like to check the Rada system. Colleagues, please have the Council's apparatus checked. And, colleagues, now I'm going to name all the suggestions that have come, so please prepare. I see that some people don't just work because they don't believe that it doesn't work. Please, I'm asking you to take your jobs. I've asked you to do a test. I'll ask you what's going on. Please don't leave the hall, colleagues, please stay in the hall. And now I'm calling from a voice to those bills that are in the agreed order, and I'm adding by vote: Bill 6773, 7155, 7156, 4228, 6011. I'm calling the bill out of the vote, and I'm now putting to the vote draft Decree 7068 with draft laws that have been called by me under the transcript. Please vote and please support. Please vote, please support, colleagues, vote. Please vote. [[6:06:12]] For 240 Decision taken. We've confirmed the order of the day session, colleagues. And so we can move on to the next issue of the day's order, which concerns pension reform, the last issue of pension reform. Colleagues, pay attention! – we agreed today that we will work until the end of pension reform. We can look at 6617 today. I called it a retirement reform announcement, and we voted before the completion of the pension reform issues. It's all right in the daytime, look, it's all right in the daytime. Colleagues, here will be the first reading. Let's consult, colleagues. Shall we come in? So there's no risk. Colleagues, that's when we come in. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on Retirement (6617 and 6617-1). I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. My colleagues, I stress, this is the last draft of the pension reform, we have to go through it today. I am asking everyone to come to this with responsibility and we voted in favour of considering the issue of pension reform before the end. [[18:07:35]] For 206 So 206, the decision is made. And I invite you to the report of the Minister of Social Policy, Rev. Andrija Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u561	Dear National Deputies! Let me thank you on behalf of the government, and I think on behalf of the Ukrainian people, for this historic decision that you have made today. Thank you! Once the Head of the Supreme Council has put to the vote another bill related to pension reform. This is about transferring expenditure from the Pension Fund to the state budget in connection with the adoption of this law. It's a law that's very necessary for us to divide expenses, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u562	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs of Ischeikin Kostine Evgenovich, please, if I may, briefly, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u563	Dear Head, honourable colleagues, following the consideration of Bills 6617 and 6617-1, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council draft Law 6617 to adopt and prepare for the second reading after the adoption of the Bill as a whole under number 6614. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you. On the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u564	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up very briefly: two for, two for, no, no. It's very concise. Please. Without this bill, pension reform will not work, so I ask everyone to hold a responsible and brief discussion. Please. Danchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u565	I'd like you to pass it on to Ostrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u566	Dear colleagues! Aunt Ostrikova, Self-Help faction. Of course, the Pension Fund today has expenditure that has absolutely nothing to do with pensions and that is needed to reduce the deficit of the Pension Fund to be passed on to other competent ministries, such as the budget of the Ministry of Social Policy. Yet, members of our Sampomitch faction: Captain Helen, Semimenha Roman, I have repeatedly insisted that before any expenses were transferred anywhere, there was a need to audit the Pension Fund and determine the effectiveness of these expenses and whether they were related to the Pension Fund, to specific expenses related to pension insurance. Any transfer of expenditure should be preceded by an audit carried out by an international independent company. Regrettably, such an audit has not been conducted today. Once again, we made adjustments, but they were very side-by-side and one-sided. We therefore hope that under the personal responsibility of Minister Reva, a full independent audit of the Pension Fund will be carried out prior to the transfer of such expenditure. What's more, we really hope that the transfer of these expenses will not be followed by the government's next thesis: we've reduced the pension deficit, because it's not a reduction in the pension deficit, it's a directing of inefficient non-retirement expenditure to finance another government body. So this is how we want to say that, please, the audit, we're going to decide that it's going to be conducted properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u567	Mrs. Tetjano, the audit provided for in the law that we passed and the minister has just confirmed that the audit will be conducted, as is your faction. Please, Krivenko Victor, very briefly. Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u568	Please proceed to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u569	Thank you. Magnificent, very short, please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u570	Dear colleagues, there's nothing to delay the vote. People's Front votes in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u571	Colleagues and closing remarks will take place in two minutes. Please invite everyone to the hall and take up jobs, the closing statement by Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Please, Mr. Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u572	Thank you. Vadim Ivchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to listen carefully to the fact that this bill expands the obligation of local budgets to pay expenses for state welfare programs. In the future, it will be the exclusive obligation of local budgets to pay public social assistance to those who do not have the right to a pension. And the responsibility of the local budgets will also be to make compensation payments to a nonworker who takes care of a person with disabilities and those who have reached 80 years of age. I just want everyone to understand that we translate part of the expenditure as mandatory into local budgets. That's all that's going on right now and, let's say, subsidizing the Pension Fund, that's a positive norm. Here's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u573	Thank you. So we finished the discussion. Let's go to the vote. I'm asking all deputies to take up jobs, colleagues. We're gonna count every vote now. I'm not coming back. I ask everyone to return to their places of work, and we will proceed to the vote. I would like to point out that without this law, pension reform will not work. These are changes to the budget code. And I ask everyone to take up their jobs and take a very responsible vote. I'm asking the ministers to invite the deputies into the hall, not the other way around. I emphasize, I won't come back. Please proceed to the vote. And I put to the vote the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the increase of pensions number 6617 on the basis of the Committee's proposal and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and technical legal rights. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Let's start the pension reform, support the pensioners! Let's vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Please stand by, we vote! Stand by, every voice! [[18:14:33]] For 255 The law is passed. [[Applause]] Colleagues, I say, have completed our consideration of the laws of pension reform. This is an important historic decision of the Ukrainian Parliament. With your permission, I'll give the floor to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Colleagues, we'll listen to the Prime Minister before closing the evening session. Three minutes, Vladimir Groissman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u574	Mr. President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I just want to say thank you to the Chief of the Supreme Council and to the presidency, the head of the profile committee of Ludmila Denisovi, the minister, the factions of the People's Front Block, the People's Front, Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenuk. [[Congrats]] [[Applause]] I want to thank Oleg Valeriovich Lazko and the faction, the Radical faction. I want to thank the progressive part of Self-Help: thank you, my friends, I know it's been difficult for you, but you voted. [[Applause]] "The will of the people," "The will of the people." Thank you for the rebirth team. Thank you to the non-fractional people's deputies, my friends. Thank you all for your voice, this is very important. And thank the President and everyone for their support. Good luck with that. Thanks, guys. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-03-m0.u575	Thank you, colleagues. It was a tough day, but it was a productive day, and we adopted two reforms one day. And, colleagues, God forbid they change the lives of Ukrainian citizens for the better. At this evening’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue our work. Tomorrow's ratifications, very important, I ask everyone to come to the hall and adjust to a responsible and important job. Thank you. Good-bye. See you tomorrow.
