ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u1	Good morning! Please enter the hall, take up jobs, and prepare for registration. Colleagues, come into the hall, please prepare for registration. And I'd like you to sign up. [[10:07:04]] 339 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleagues. Alexander Mikhailovich Briginz. Let's say hello to Alexander. And Anatolia Sergiyovich Evlakhova. We welcome our colleagues on their birthdays. [[Applause]] And before we started "the hour of questions to the government," we had a motion for a break from two factions, the faction of the Opposition Block and the Rebirth. They're willing to replace it with a tribune. I'm giving in. They want to replace it. I'm giving a performance, and then we're moving on to an hour of questions to the government. Nestor Shufrich will be performing. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u2	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, the honorable government that came to the hour of the government today. It's symbolic that we're now raising questions at the request of our faction, at the request of our colleagues from other factions about the action that will unfortunately take place after our meeting, namely: more than a 30-day break in the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] I watched closely the meeting of the Economic Committee. I've seen, I've seen how the coalition and the government work, and that's normal. We are today a parliamentary-presidential republic. And in these circumstances, the coalition must certainly support the government, but we do not know to this day the personal composition of the coalition. We have registered draft Decree 6261 so that on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ukrainian citizens can see who today is the foundation of power, which is part of the personal composition of the coalition. Besides, understanding the indignation and misunderstanding of the situation that we are not going to gather for more than 30 days, the explanation that we need to respond to our colleagues going to the Parliamentary Assembly, going to the PARJE, is no reason today, we have never carried the plenary meetings because our colleagues are going to foreign forums. We have to be in this room right now, working. So we demand that we put to the vote now draft Decree 6331 amending the calendar plan, and that from April 24 to 28, the Supreme Council work in plenary mode. At a meeting of the Economic Committee, three ministers and the Deputy Prime Minister regrettably reported that there were many initiatives in the government that would make people's lives better. But unfortunately, these initiatives can only be considered after May 14th, when the Supreme Council, that is, we are with you. And today the government can't make people's lives better because we're not going with you. So I suggest, let's go meet your colleagues today, the product of the coalition, and vote that in two weeks, 10 days, 24 numbers be the Conciliation Council, and 25th, the Plenary Meeting. And really, then we'll see who wants people to live better. In the meantime, you've made them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u3	Colleagues, let's move on to an hour of questions to the government. Today, the Prime Minister of Ukraine will speak from the government. And I want us to welcome both the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the composition of the government. Just a year ago, we voted in favor of the election. Let's welcome our colleagues, welcome to our anniversary. [[Applause]] And I invite you to the address of Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groysman. Then there will be questions. Vladimir Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u4	The noble Ukrainian people! Your Honor, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Your Honor, the Honourable People's Deputies! A year has passed in the history of modern Ukraine. This year must have been very difficult for each of us. But I remember every word I said just one year ago from this rostrum that our main task was to stop the crisis, both politically and economically, and to move on to economic growth. We were then prophesied that the government would not stand, the government would not be able to stop the fall and start the economic growth, that we would not be able to pass the heating season, that we would not be able to secure the winter and many other things that we had to spend in September. But, as the time has shown, we have made every effort with you to stop the fall and move on to economic growth, we have stopped the crisis, we have managed to provide a small but growth after the heavy, extremely difficult years of decline in 2016, and here we have to give due to the first governments in 2014, 2015, 2016. Together, the coalition in this room made completely unpopular decisions, but they allowed us to stop the crisis and allow us to settle down and move on to economic growth. It is particularly important that in 2016, in the fourth quarter, you and I were able to accelerate the economic growth to 4.7 percent. Again, the projections were different, but our country's economy clearly shows that it is ready to recover, and so our task in 2017 is to do everything we can to convert economic growth from GDP to real Ukrainian citizens' income. Finally, we have to repay the debts of the Ukrainian people, who have demonstrated in these extremely difficult times, wisdom, patience, stability. And our task with you is to do everything we can to make people feel the change in their lives. The economic growth we received in 2016 gave us the opportunity to start changing a lot of things in our country. We have taken some steps, just the first steps that have allowed us to double the minimum wage in the country since January 1, 2017. We too have been criticized for this, but today it may be said that 4.5 million Ukrainian citizens have received a higher salary. We were able to raise Ukrainian teachers' salaries by almost 50 percent, Ukrainian doctors by 30 percent in 2017. We have launched literally from April 1st a program of free medicine for Ukrainian citizens who, as a result of great injustice, live 7 to 8 years less than our neighbours in the European Union, and we don't have to deal with this state of affairs that are now in health care. We've started a completely honest dialogue with you on how to draft the budget for 2017. For several months, we held discussions on the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament in order for this document to come out with a strategically important development document. But as you will recall, from this rostrum I promised a year ago that the government would develop a short - term action programme, and we will go to the mid - term development plan of our country. And together with you, we've worked on this document, this document, this is not another strategic paper that's going to be on the table, this is a real plan of action that's going to allow the country and Ukrainian citizens to have a very clear answer that we can get with you, at least, 4-5 percent of economic growth. We will be able to raise social standards with you after the necessary reforms have been implemented. We will continue what we started last year -- the country's capital repair. For decades, no country has taken seriously. So 95 percent of Ukrainian roads are broken down, that's what we're seeing with you today. Because from time to time, the authorities did not care about what was needed, but they cared about thinking about their ratings, doing other things that had no bearing on government creation. And that's why in 2014, when it was extremely difficult for me and you, we entered a weakened, economically weak, greatly reduced security. These are the challenges that stood in 2014, 2015, 2016 and in the coming years, we have to give an effective answer that Ukraine has to become strong, economically developed and defensively strong. It's our job with you. A task to carry out. I want to stress that all of this has become possible only because we have the support of both government initiatives and parliamentary initiatives. We have the support of the Ukrainian Parliament, we have an effective relationship with the President of the country, we need to be united with you. I think the time has come for us to put aside our political flags. We must have the only flag – the flag of our state and the only national interest – is a successful Ukraine in which every citizen feels worthy and secure. So I think we have a lot of work to do in front of you. And I'd like to talk about our next plans when we're asked when we meet people, in the districts, and what we need to do in order for Ukraine to finally happen and be strong. We answer differently, but I know exactly that making concrete decisions within the walls of this Ukrainian Parliament will allow this year to begin to restore social justice, to ensure sustained economic growth, to continue the capital rehabilitation of the country, which is essential today in every corner of our country. And we can see today that we have decentralization, the result of our priorities, as set out in the 2017 budget. We focus on infrastructure upgrades, on energy independence, on the restoration of Ukrainian roads that take medium-term periods of 3, 5, 7 years, but we know how to make roads, we know how to prevent theft. We can do this. So today, we can answer quite honestly in order to achieve this, we need to make at least five decisions this year. We need to carry out effective pension reform. And the government will offer a model that will allow 1 October 2017 not to give taxes, as the authorities have done before, given and forgotten one thousand. One thousand were given to keep the pensioners in line at the Savings House and just die there. And we're going to be able to raise between 200 and 1,000 dollars a month by more than 5 million pensioners from October 1st, with the macroeconomic indicators of our country being kept completely stable. We'll cancel your pension taxes for working pensioners. We're going to recalculate another four million pensions and raise minimum social standards. This program will cover 9 out of 12 million Ukrainian pensioners. Next, dear friends, we need to make changes in land relations. And if it was previously proposed to give the land to foreigners or large holdings, today the Ukrainian government is initiating a reform that will allow individuals in Ukraine to sell land to each other. To form a real farm class in our country that will create new jobs in the villages and areas of our country that will be competitive enough to produce a quality national product. We have to come with you completely considered to sell inefficiently used state assets. We have 3.5 thousand state-owned enterprises with you that are the center of inefficiency corruption. Think of the 82 billion losses that these enterprises bring to the state! 50 percent of businesses are completely out of business, 30 of them are only profitable, 70 of them are all corrupt. We have to go through a path that will allow effective use of state-owned enterprises through public sales competitive. This will enable billions of investments in the economy, create new jobs, introduce new technologies and make Ukraine more competitive, stronger. And also, dear friends, I would like to ask you to support two very important reforms. I don't know any country that would ensure growth and development with a weak education system. We've introduced to Parliament and we're working with you on education reform. We need to speed up these decisions. Ukrainians have to have access to a new, quality Ukrainian school, a school that forms the personality of a true patriot who can compete in today's competitive world. And another very important reform that we have to make is health reform. We can ask everyone here today whether we are being set up by the country’s health system. Everyone's going to say no. And if we ask if we have a model that we can implement, I think most people will say that we each have our own model. But in that case, we will never reform. We need to make a reform that will unite us, which will eventually compromise us. And believe me, it's better to act than to do nothing. It is better to work to create a new health - care funding system, to form high - quality medical districts, to create high - quality health facilities where people can not only receive medical treatment but also effective treatment and diagnosis, and disease prevention. We're running separate programs, and they're going to produce a result. Let's think about it, in 2015, friends, we lost 404,000 people to cardiovascular diseases. It says statistics, but it's a tragedy for our country. That's why you and I are running a system and free drugs, so we're going to build a system of cardio centers all over the country to save the lives of Ukrainian citizens. The mortality rate from cardiovascular diseases is now the highest in Ukraine, 68 percent. In the European Union, 37 times less, almost twice. That's what we have to do with you. Five key reforms — and changes will be tangible. Five key reforms, and people will feel that their quality of life is changing. And I am ready for the success of these reforms as the Prime Minister of the country, who heads the executive branch, to bear all the political responsibility. I believe in the success of these reforms, but I know that only together can we do it with you. And I call for unity today. Let us give due to our nation. Let us do what Ukrainian society demands of us today. Let us give what is due to our country, which must be successful, in which people’s problems must be effectively solved. And finally, I would just like to thank the previous government of Arsenius Yatsenyuk and Arsenius Yatsenyuk today. [[Applause]] I would like to thank the honourable colleagues, the Ukrainian Parliament, the Head of the Supreme Council and the Presidency. [[Applause]] I want to thank the President of the country. [[Applause]] I would like to thank the colleagues of the government with whom we have been together this year. We have reason to criticize each other, we have flaws, and we know about them. But the main thing is that we are willing to work for the Ukrainian people and for our beautiful country. First of all, I want to thank the Ukrainian citizens for their wisdom, for their stability, and for their good. [[Applause]] I know for certain that many Ukrainian politicians, and perhaps not many, who have a dark soul and a black palate, do not value even one percent of the wisdom that the Ukrainian people have. [[Applause]] But the Ukrainian people are very demanding and very wise. And we have to do everything we can to be honest with people. This is exactly the main task that we have to carry out. I want to thank the Ukrainian soldiers who are protecting our native Ukrainian land. [[Applause]] Dear friends, dear friends, I would like to emphasize, attention! Today we have 130 billion dollars in the budget of the Ukrainian troops, our security and our defenses! But I think the best and brightest applause will be to double our country's defence budget! And that's what we can do when we have an economy. Economics and economic growth, and growth, don't tolerate populism. And I think we should just root it out of this room and show a real effective state policy in the name of a beautiful Ukraine. And to the end. I want to welcome all Ukrainian citizens today, my dear colleagues, on the eve of the great wonderful holiday of Easter, to welcome us all with this bright, joyful, truly warm holiday – a holiday of hope, love, understanding and good. [[Applause]] I want each of us to be more kind from now on and forever. I wish there was peace over our homeland. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u5	Thank you. Colleagues, let's ask you a question. And I remind you, the question isn't from the factions, it's from the MPs. Anyone who wishes to ask a question, please prepare for the recording. Please prepare and record a question to the government. Please. Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u6	Mr. Prime Minister, I have a question for the government. Last year, nearly 400 million dollars were paid to treat our people abroad for a serious illness. When, for example, a child cannot be counted in Ukraine, we were treated abroad. This year there were only 200 million dollars. I mean, twice as much. And I'd like to ask. Can we increase our funding now? Because children simply die, and volunteers are not always able to raise funds. And we need to build state policy. When a person is treated under a guarantee letter from Minhvod. Once again, this is about the health of children. And question two. Please visit Uman City and consider the possibility of angiographic equipment being installed because people just don't go to Cherkas. And so this is going to be a very good way to improve and increase the number of people who survive is going to be less mortal. Thank you for your attention. I personally ask the Prime Minister to answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u7	Thank you for your question. In fact, the issue of treatment for the government is very important, and I talked about it in the speech. In fact, we need to constantly increase the cost of effective treatment and not necessarily abroad. But I am convinced that such funding needs to be increased. I suggest that you work together with the Ministry of Health, a professional vice-premier, perhaps with priorities that could be taken into account when developing new treatment programs abroad. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u8	Thank you. Kirilenko gives the word "Alexandra Kugel." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u9	Alexander Kugel, Fatherland. Vladimir Borisovich, before the festivals, before such festivals, must first repent before the Passover and then give thanks. And believe me, government, I am not personally to you, but the government has something to repent of. And if people admit their mistakes, they have the opportunity to be blessed for the future. Please tell me if I was the only one standing on this stand when you supported and made decisions to buy drugs in foreign organizations. You know that today 3.9 billion is paid in 16 years. For 16! Today, we received 16 percent, which is due in April. For this we must repent both to Mrs. Mantis and to those who voted in favour of this decree and to the government for supporting it. We also need to repent for the subsidies and gassies that are so hard to deal with.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u10	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u11	Disgruntled people. You must repent to Mr. Révi that he is not fulfilling your orders. But I want to ask you today in front of the holidays, to give you the word that the closest you'll ever get is a serious space sector and you'll go, you'll have a "Southern" factory waiting for you. And we ask you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u12	Thank you, Alexandra Volodymyr. There's a lot of sensitive topics to deal with, and we're doing a lot of work, including changing the purchasing system, which was traditionally corrupt, you know. I'm sorry, but when billions of people were breaking through these basic structures that were used to buy drugs, steal from people who were sick, and for them, these drugs were vital, you know, this, I think, is stealing, this is barbarism. That's why the system is changing. And actually there's a backlog, and that's a challenge for us, we understand that. But let's face it, this year we've increased funding to 5.9 billion dollars for such purchases, that's 2 billion dollars. And it's very important to me that these purchases are honest. And that's why I'm willing to do everything I can to buy through international organizations. I know that many pharmaceuticals have even ordered, discrediting, there, information about the inability of international purchases and so forth. But believe me, international purchases are sufficiently transparent and open to the world, controlled not only by Ukrainian structures but also by international structures. And this will only say that the efficiency of resource use will be higher there, and the main thing is that no one will have access from the Ukrainians to this total corruption. And I'm just happy for it. Second position on what you said about gas. Look, there are two digits I'll call you, two digits. Since there was a difference in gas prices, some have made billions, some have earned billions. And where you share every month with someone you know and sit next to. But we've lost a price difference, my friends, for this time 53 billion dollars. Do you have any idea how much money you've spent on gas? And the second digit I'll call you. Stockholm, because of a contract signed in 2009 by the Prime Minister, forgot her name. So I want to tell you that today. That today in Stockholm, Russia's aggressor is judging us by this contract. That's even more than $40 billion. In fact, in our country, they want to steal $100 billion as a result of such banditry. That's how many budgets in our country? That's how many Ukrainian citizens' pensions? That's why we're going to pursue honest politics. I realize that people don't believe it right away, but people will feel it. Because we raise wages, we raise pensions, we repair roads, we repair hospitals, we strengthen local budgets, we rebuild the national economy, we just do it, we do our job. Let's do this honestly. We need your support and yours, including yours, because when we form the Ukrainian budget, we need his support when we do pension reform to give pensioners support. And we realize that some people are going to say black and some people are going to say black and some people are going to say white. And as far as space is concerned. You're absolutely right. As far as the space sector is concerned, it needs a serious update, a serious approach. And we understand that. So here I totally agree with you, we also need to work together to bring our space field to a new level of quality. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u13	Thank you. Stecenko Dmitry Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Katzer-Buchovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u15	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, dignitaries! I have a question for Vladimir Borisovich Groysman. Mr. Prime Minister, you just mentioned the gas, and here, of course, we support you in the fact that Ukraine must win the Stockholm Arbitration. Also, what is currently in progress is the reform of the natural gas market. But in order to ensure energy independence, it's very important to increase our own natural gas production. At the moment, we don't see an increase in the production of our own natural gas in the last year, and we need a more favourable tax regime, and we need a deregulation of the sector, but we still need to put order in the issuance of licences and permits for the production of natural gas in order for the commission to work on the distribution contracts. Tell me, what are you planning to do in this direction so that next year we have a positive increase in natural gas production?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u16	Thank you very much for this very important question. What have we been able to do? First of all, we've been living for over 500 days without a drop of Russian gas. This is a huge job that has been done in recent years since 2014. But I totally agree with you that we need to grow our own production and, in principle, that experts estimate we have, absolutely confident that we can fully meet our own needs by 100 percent, that it takes time and investment. See what happened in Ukraine? We've been growing, we've had 55 billion, 55 billion, today we've fallen 20. Of the 20 billion, only 14 billion are state-owned, the rest is private production in Ukraine. Our goal is to raise the state's output to 20 billion by 2020. In 2016 we stopped the fall in winning, in 2016, thank God, we grew up plus, small, but plus 100 million cubes. We've adopted a strategy for the development of Ukrainian gas. Today, the Ukrainian gas company, the Crushing Company, has already obtained an additional 27 permits for the development of gas. The truth is that between 2007 and 2013, 150 licenses were issued in Ukraine. How many state companies do you think? Zero. These were corrupt schemes that we broke, and so some of them, and they're furious about it. But we need to continue to increase production for the 2017 plan plus 500 million cubes, not less than half a billion cubes this year. But that too is not enough. So, I think that what we talked about recently when we met with the Petra Prashenko faction, we were talking about what should be an enabling environment. And there are probably two very critical conditions. Finally, since 2018, we need to lower the rent on gas production and introduce a single rent of 12 percent. I believe that this approach can be acceptable, and we can speed up the yield. And second position. We need to make a deregulation. Many regulations that do not allow access to the development of gas emissions in the country. But I am deeply convinced that we need to create this with you, together with you, in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. We need to have a high-quality discussion and make the right and effective decisions for the Ukrainian economy and energy independence. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u17	Thank you. Markevich Jaroslav Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u18	Please, George.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u19	I'm in a hurry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u20	Volodymyr Borisovich! I want to address you, Mr. Prime Minister! Volodymyr Borisovich! If you don't mind, Andrew George, I'd like to ask you a question. We support you in general because we need to increase the welfare of our citizens. One of the reforms that would contribute to this is the reform of the State Fiscal Service and customs. I want to thank you, the government on March 28th voted an appropriate decision that should finally allow us to create a single inter-regional customs office, finally to clean up the local princes who were lobbied by certain governors or national deputies, and to increase by tens or hundreds of billions of dollars the income of the state budget. But unfortunately, this ruling is not signed today, and the actions that were to be done from the creation of inter-regional customs by May 1st do not take place. Tell me, please, we support you when you say we have to make changes, not talk about them, but do. When this decision is finally published.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u21	Thank you very much. Here we are, finally taking it and doing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u22	Volodymyr Borisovich, if you'll just give me a second. 30 seconds to go, the question ends.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u23	And when we finally create, we will be able to create really the only quality customs that will allow. What kind of tax would allow the Ukrainian business to work and fill the state budget? All the credits given to the tax manager, Mr. Sold, regarding the impossibility of signing orders and other things, simply do not withstand any criticism. So let's make changes and finally put the customs and DFS in order and fill the state budget. The question is when.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u24	Thank you very much. I would like to emphasize once again what we are finally taking and doing, and this is shown by the figures. But in 25 years in the country, a really corrupt fiscal service system needs to be cleaned up, it needs to be updated, it needs to change the system itself, and it needs to be done effectively enough. In fact, I think we need to divide the legislative work and the executive work here. Adopt laws that you think are right, and we will enforce them. As far as government regulations are concerned, we develop them, we consider the timeliness and necessity of adoption in order to ensure reorganization. And after we've worked on them and they've been accepted with government development, they'll be published. We'll do our part and do it effectively. I also want to remind you that since April 1, we have launched an electronic VAT register. Our job is to make one of the most corrupt taxes absolutely transparent, and we're going to eradicate corruption there, and it's going to be a huge plus. What's more, we're going to eliminate the district taxes, as it's supposed, and turn them into service services. So we're going to do our job, and you're going to appreciate it critically or positively, well, it's either yours or it's objective. Or subjective evaluation. Thank you so much for your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u25	Thank you. Dove Vladislav Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u26	Thank you very much. Vladislav Doub, 197th constituency, Cherkaščina. First of all, of course, I would like to welcome all the Ukrainians with the coming light of Easter. And I would like to convey the word to my colleague, Mr. Yuri Derevyanko, a major in French. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u27	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! We are well aware that Ukraine’s success depends on economic growth, but we also realize that today corruption consumes and destroys this economic growth. And please tell us how we can explain what in the year Ernst & Young, an independent audit firm, concluded that Ukraine has led the biggest corruption countries in number one. The second question. Why did you save over this year, unfortunately, a VAT refund scheme, and did you know that this discount rate is 25-30 percent today? Why is one of the most corrupt land management schemes outside the population (and this is Bill 4355) not destroyed? Why is there insufficient active support for government and priority in destroying this scheme? And why did NAZK of 22 registers only get electronic access to 9 to verify all declarations from 22 registers? And there's more. You have been commissioned by the Ministry of Health to work out a separate approach to mountain areas in the definition.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u28	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u29	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, you gave a separate mission to the Ministry of Health a few weeks ago to define the characteristics of medical districts in mountain areas. This applies to the region of Ivano-Frankiv, the region of Lviv. So far, no features have been taken into account. These districts are formed in the same way as in the plains, and this problem remains unresolved. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u30	Thank you so much for your question. As far as the land is concerned. As far as land is concerned, we support the Government of Ukraine 4355. We believe that all united territorial communities should be fully entitled to the use of land of broad jurisdiction within their borders. I fully support it, I support the government. National deputies of Ukraine are requested to support this law, taking into account the positions of the government in the next plenary week. This is extremely important. Second position. By NAZK register. I didn't have that information, and I'm going to check it out, and I'm going to make sure the Justice Department doesn't have it. We don't have access at the moment, not at the moment of formation. Next position on Ernst & Young. I think you should ask Ernst & Young what they meant, who they asked, who they got the answers, and what's the point. Because there are many contradictions in this information today. I think an authority company like Ernst & Young should just make it clear that it will still be possible. Well, even, you know, I'm going to say that even there, for example, ProZorro has already largely destroyed corruption in public procurement, and we've launched it since August 1, 2016. It's obvious that the situation in that area has become revolutionary since the beginning of our independence, we've only estimated 8 billion economies since the introduction of this program. Now I want to ask you. So you said you were going to leave and so on, so you have specific information about where this is going. I know for a fact that I'm willing to use my crippled iron to burn this kind of corruption. So I'm asking you very much, please contact the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, and I think it's a completely independent organization that has to deal with this in principle. Please name the last names, please call the companies, the percentages to whom they've returned, and then it'll be a serious criminal case and someone will go to jail, and you don't have to wait for "hours of questions to the government" to ask the Prime Minister. So I'm just calling, please, if you need to, you can write a letter to me, and I'll write it in my accompanying letter to the NAB and get this straight. And as far as the mountain area is concerned. Believe me, the government of Ukraine will not leave any institution, education, or health care in a mountainous area. And believe me, today we're going to analyze the results of the first quarter, where there are problems, what needs to be helped, what needs to be done to change the approach to funding, and we're going to do that because we're worried about all the facilities, including in the mountains. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u31	Thank you. Please, Artushenko. Yeah, Paul, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u32	Mr. Yuri and all the national deputies who are certainly concerned about the very system of the establishment of the hospital districts. As you know, about four weeks ago, the government approved the first 13 districts, the distribution of the hospital districts. What is the main problem, and our position remains in this. It is not the Ministry of Health that forms hospital districts in areas where the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine forms hospital districts in the areas. This is an initiative of local governments and local authorities. In Ivano-Frankiv district, hospital districts have not yet been approved. We're willing to work together in every area, but there's nobody to push. There is certainly a methodology, first of all there is a specificity, but any action the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will do only after the appropriate submission and approval of the district administration. So once again, I'm saying, this is a joint job. No one's going to break through their knees, because the most basic principle of creating hospital districts is to bring health care closer to human beings. Not to break, not to destroy, not to close, but to bring social services closer to everyone. That is the principle used by the government in the establishment of hospital districts.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u33	Thank you. Artushenko Igor Andryovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u34	Artushenko Igor, Peter Dusty Block. I would like to thank the government and the Prime Minister for sharing a good job over the course of the year and to convey the word to John Ivanovich Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u35	Good afternoon, distinguished members of the Cabinet of Ministers, good afternoon, distinguished Prime Minister, with the holidays of you. My question to the Minister of Education. Lilia Mikhailovna, during the work on the state budget and the budget committee, allocated capital expenditure to a number of educational institutions, including 50 million money per dormitory for Lviv polytechnics and 50 million for reconstruction of the old academic corps. It's a small part of what these two clearly need best institutions. And the Supreme Council, for its part, did everything possible to find the funds back in December. Yet it has been three months. And both unions have not yet received funding, regardless of the MPs' appeal to both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance and the Committee on Budgets. In view of the need for 400 students who came from eastern Ukraine as immigrants and decided to receive higher education at one of the most prestigious technical universities in Ukraine, please let me know when the Lviv Police Department.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u36	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u37	Please let me know when the Lviv Politechnician and the Kiev-Magilian Academy can count on these funds? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. Once all necessary procedures have been carried out that relate in particular to the agreement with the Governing Council’s Committee on Budgets, we will transfer these funds immediately. So the Ministry of Education and Science will do everything in every letter that is defined when the budget is approved. In particular, information provided by the Committee on Budgets of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u39	Thank you. Bereza Borislav. Aresonkov, I'm sorry. Aresonkov, and then there'll be Bereza. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u40	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! We very much welcome your statement that Ukraine needs to create appropriate conditions, favourable conditions for the development of small, medium, large business. And you said that if you knew at least one thing about the obstacle to business activity, you'd be doing all the necessary work. Here's a fact. Today, on central television channels yesterday, information was received about illegal and arbitrary actions by fiscal police, tax police, which carried out operations called in the Zitomirsk, Volinsk, Vinnicki areas in the framework of criminal conduct in 2015, I emphasize, in the 15th year, but removed documents and impeded the activities of enterprises, today blocked transportation, banned workers from working, moral pressure. We've prepared all the materials you need.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u41	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u42	Vladimir Borisovich, I have a question. When the fiscal police, which is unreformed to date, will finally move on to a civilized level of relations with business representatives, when they will work within the framework of legislation, and when these will finally be the necessary conditions for work. I gave you a list of the Crucifixion System, the Petrolium Group, 18 companies to which yesterday was the day before yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u43	Thank you for your question. I can't give an evaluation right now because of what happened. But based on what you say, you might say that taxes should always be adequate. I don't know these 18 companies, whether they're avoiding paying taxes or not, I don't know, and you probably don't know, but actions have to be respectable, adequate, without using unknown, incomprehensible actions. I agree with you here. Now I'm assigning the first Deputy Finance Minister, Oksana Markarovy, who is also authorized by the government, a special investment authority, to deal with this issue, to invite you, to invite the DFS, to invite tax, everyone who was there, and to clear up. If we see that the actions were inadequate, I'll just send them all out of the DFS system. And it's going to be totally hard. Do you have a deal? But it must also be done because the Gitomir region today is creating the right conditions for business development and a normal investment climate. I've been seeing business, with you, with MPs, and people normally say that they're developing their productions and they're increasing jobs, and we're happy about that. I wanted to say two more things that I will ask for support from the Ukrainian Parliament. We should finally finish working on the Industrial Parks Act. And we're going to have to finish the job, colleagues, I'd very much like to finish this session, finish the job or adopt the right legislation, bold legislation on the creation of technology parks, innovation parks in the country. This will be a major contribution to the economic and technological breakthrough for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u44	Bereza Borislav, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u45	Vladimir Borisovich, I want to come to you and ask you two questions. I followed very closely what you said. And you said no one was doing Ukraine, so 85 percent of Ukraine's roads were destroyed. But in 2016, Kabmin made a very large amount of money, and we saw repairs to Ukraine’s roads. If you want, I can give you a tour of the city of Kiev, and, Vladimir Borisovich, you'll see that, along with the snow, asphalt has come down. I have a question, whether you're on the road or you're on the road, who's to blame, who's to blame. Because I have a big question, everyone always blames the forerunners, but no one has ever told me who will be punished. If you need a tour, please, next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u46	Thank you, thank you, Your Honor. Tourists need a tour. I'm not a tourist. I do. I'm real. I understand the condition of Ukrainian roads today. What's more, I understand how to modernize and build them. I've done it more than once in my life. As far as I'm concerned. I'm not complaining about anyone or my predecessors, I'm just saying that 95 percent of Ukrainian roads are destroyed because they haven't been dealt with, like many other sectors of our country. It's just that when we go on the road and we see the pits, we understand where they are. But if we take a closer look at the health system, we will also see that for decades no one has done so. So last year we allocated resources to do capital repairs, reconstruct roads. What? I have the impression that you were watching a government meeting on Wednesday. Well, you just repeated all my words from the point of view that we need to verify the quality of last year's work, and we're doing inspections all over the country today, we've put in place a new monitoring system to determine how and where technological standards have been breached. Next, people's decisions are being made, and materials are being sent to law enforcement agencies, which is what we're doing. What's more, we're sending independent labs to these places right now, and we're showing these problems. I can tell you exactly what we're going to do is punish the bad guys who were disrupting the technological process. And what's more, we're going to make them fix all the flaws, of course, and put them on the blacklist. And that's what the head of the Kravutodora reported on Wednesday at a public meeting of the government. With regard to municipal roads, decentralization has given local budgets sufficient resources to systematically deal with urban and community roads, but this is a matter of local authority’s competence. Although, I think we can send in the appropriate services so that they can do the same. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u47	Thank you. And the last two questions, colleagues, last ones. This is Honcharenko and Medunica. First, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u48	Thank you. We have a common question about the drugs with my colleague Sergey Kudlaenk, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u49	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished representatives of the government! First of all, I would like to thank you for the program that started today, the program is about "Available medicines." But there's always the word "but." I'd like to ask you to provide information, we're willing to support you on our part, and in this quest for clarification and systematic work in the districts, in the areas, in the villages where we work, what we tell people where to get these drugs, and how they're going to be provided. Thanks again for the program.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u50	Thank you very much for your question, dear fellow national MP. I was in Kropiwnitsky yesterday and held an all - Ukrainian selector's meeting. I want to tell you this. We actually launched a free medicine program for Ukrainian citizens for the first time. This program has started all over the country. We've been running this process for weeks. In reality, three nosology — hypertension, bronchial asthma, and Type II diabetes — began to lower prices in the country. What Is Needful Today? It's in the distribution, in the wider dissemination of information about the accessibility of this program. Yesterday I was conducting an all-U.S. selector, on which we all focused, that we should give more information to Ukrainian citizens. In every corner of Ukraine, I want someone who needs such support to have access to free medicine. The number of pharmacies taking part in the "Available Drugs" program is constantly increasing. I think in a month the situation will change completely. At the same time, the Ministry of Health and the government in general are developing and now all the information materials that we place in all available places to inform Ukrainian citizens that if you get a prescription from your family doctor, the therapist, you can come to the pharmacy with this prescription, where there's a free sticker, "Affordable medicines," you can get free medications there, and we'll get more explaining work. But the fact, obviously, is that the program finally came into effect, that's another thing that we actually did and for which we were criticized, and we said we wouldn't do it. Therefore, I also thank the Ukrainian National Deputies for supporting this program.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u51	Thank you. And the final question to Medusa. Oleg Vjačeslavovich, please. He's handing over Burbak. Maxim Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u52	Good afternoon! The Prime Minister, I remember, a year ago we met with you, with our entire faction of the People's Front, and we, when we were talking about the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers, about the plan of action, assured us that you would continue the reforms initiated by the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk. Thank you for keeping those words. And I want to reassurance the full support of the People's Front of all government initiatives. One of the major reforms was the reform of the creation of anti-corruption bodies in the higher echelons of power. Thanks to the implementation of this reform, we were given a train wreck last week. And I'd like to ask you what you'll recommend to 3,000 civil servants who haven't been able to submit an electronic declaration in time. And yesterday, it's a shame that our colleagues at the B.P.P. didn't fully support it. They probably didn't. They weren't aware of the changes to the N.A.S.A.L.S. Law to remove that collegial irresponsibility in this body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u53	Thank you very much, Maxim Yuriovich, for your question. In fact, you and I, together in the walls of this Parliament, together with the government and the President, have created all the anti-corruption infrastructure and made enough legislation. Now the work of these bodies has begun, which will continue to fight corruption, and Ukraine will be cleared. I have no doubt that this is the beginning of the end of corruption. But this fight will continue, and it is quite obvious here. Because the old system has collapsed, and I don't want to retreat. But anyway, she'll be gone. As far as NAZK is concerned. Regrettably, and I say this quite objectively, the NAZC manager is not professionally prepared for this work. And that's why, in principle, they did this job in a year and didn't upgrade. We've also allocated the funds, we've allocated everything we had to do to enable them to be independent, on the one hand, they have huge wages. The manager gets over 100,000 dollars a month, and from this rostrum I've heard that 200,000 is just a bonus. Instead of just working 24 hours a day, the money has to work so that everything just works out as the best clock. Clearly, then, legislation needs to be changed. I strongly believe that, within the framework of the Ukrainian Parliament and within the coalition, you will find a solution, and in the coming plenary weeks it will be voted on. And in general, I would like to thank the factions of the People's Front and other factions of the Ukrainian Parliament and the groups, the non-fractional MPs for feeling your support in those state decisions that our country needs. Once again, believe that this is extremely important, and we will do everything we can to be open, accountable and accountable to the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u54	Thank you. Volodymyr Borisovich, further statement of a break from two factions and a performance, and then perhaps your closing word. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u55	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, taking advantage of the opportunity that today, as you have been appointed and have lost your immunity from today, we would like to try your immunity on your teeth and ask you some important questions. First. You talk a lot about free medicine. We had fought for more than a year for Ukrainians to receive free medicine. Thank you for supporting this initiative of the Radical Party, which has been launched by you, but it does not work in many areas of Ukraine. Two weeks from April 1st as if it was supposed to work, but Ukrainians don't get free prescriptions. I have a requirement for government, for the Ministry of Health, before. take all measures to really start getting free medicine. We believe that free medications cannot be stopped and that we must move on. Hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians die every year because of medical examinations. And they only come to the hospital when a roasted cock pecks in one place and no doctor with gold hands can save people's lives. So we registered a bill a year ago on the annual free medical examination of Ukrainians because people don't have the funds to conduct these tests. Let's do these medical examinations at the expense of the state budget so that at an early stage we can detect diseases, eliminate them, and thus save the lives of Ukrainians. Third. Vladimir Borisovich, you're saying that you're willing to propose a pension reform and retire from October 1st. But there's no need to wait for October 1st, as a result of you meeting another requirement of the Radical Party to double the minimum wage we have a significant overturning of the pension fund's income. And we know that today there are funds in the budget to raise pensions as early as June 1, without waiting for October 1. We're asking you, in the first order, to raise pensions, the so-called social ones who today half a million Ukrainians get less than a thousand dollars, and to count, to modernize pensions for people who have a huge job but who get a penny pension. And the last. Last week we were in your government demanding to return to the government's state-owned gas distribution networks, which today continue to be used free of charge by the oligarchs: Firtash, Ljovczyn, Boyko, with the support of the government. Last week, we don't see government action. That's why we've prepared a draft government decree to return to the government's administration of state-owned gas distribution networks. I'll give you this draft decision right now, we insist on its adoption. Stop robbing Ukrainians!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u56	It's a closing statement. Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groisman. Please. It was a statement from two factions for a break that was replaced by a speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u57	Thank you so much for your statement and for your address. We'll definitely consider it and, in principle, I've commissioned the First Vice-Prime Minister to start a proper job for your request from the faction. You know, it's very important that we make the changes that we can make, not just talk about them. As far as government immunity is concerned. Friends, we have normal immunity and real desire, a healthy desire to change the country. This is our main immunity to the various challenges of the system. When we start to change things, the system starts to resist us, but immunity is enough to break it. As far as free medicine is concerned. I've already said that. First of all, I want to thank my colleague, the leader of the Radical Party faction, I said that. Thank you for supporting the government's initiative. You supported our initiative to double the minimum wage, it was our coalition decision, and we raised it. You've worked on it for a long time, agreed within the coalition, and that you've taken a state position and supported this decision. Of course, that's what I'm saying. I like you. I don't like your faction. Well, ideology, but I can definitely say that when you had to make that decision, you supported the coalition, you supported our initiative. And people get the opportunity to raise the minimum wage, you have to call things your names. As far as free drugs are concerned, there's also a government initiative that you've supported, and I can also say that I'm grateful because in the budget, we've put 500 million dollars into this program. This program was one of the promised governments, and we carried it out. Now it's about the availability of drugs. True, you're saying that there's still no availability everywhere, because not all the pharmacy network is still active. There hasn't been a first phase of the calculation that's going to take two weeks after the program, not all people know it yet, but we've started the program, the actual program of providing the drugs available, first, the right one, and secondly, it's going to be permanent. I don't rule out that even this year we're going to go to Parliament to increase funding for this program by, for example, 250 million, as we predict, in order to provide universally, and we're going to provide free medicine for Ukrainian citizens every year so that people can afford to be treated, because 90 percent of people who refuse treatment and need it are refusing it for the very reason that they don't have money. So I say that it's critical to fight for the income of Ukrainian citizens. And as far as pensions are concerned. We offer a fair pension system, we don't want to make any taxes, we want to change the pension system that will allow every pensioner to receive a decent regular pension every month. Of course, it's going to be tied to the workforce, but for millions, because it's a work pension, so millions of Ukrainian citizens will get a recalculation, they'll get a pension increase, and the size of that increase I told you. And that's going to be possible since October 1st. I want to remind you, my friends, that as a result of the salary reform in the country, we were able to begin to increase your income to the Pension Fund, but let's not forget that the pension deficit is almost half its size, over 140 billion, that's 10 billion more, friends than the entire country's defence security budget, that's about 5 percent of our GDP, and here we have to find a balance, and the government has found this balance. It'll be a historic decision, because after us, I'm sure no one's ever gonna raise a salary twice. And we know, and we know how to raise wages in the future. And the real average wage in the country increased by 35 percent, with inflation at 12 percent. So the point is that the process is going right. We need to build up this stability, then people will feel it more. A stable dollar, stable prices, projected inflation -- it'll give people confidence. And our task with you is to make these short-term changes, systemic decisions, and the main thing is that we understand that this is possible. That's what we need our support for. So, honourable colleagues, I would like to emphasize once again that we are ready to continue working together with the government. with Parliament. We thank the Ukrainian Parliament once again. I emphasize once again, the factions of the Peter Prashenko Block, the People's Front faction, the non-fractional people's deputies, the other factions that don't join the coalition, the support of our initiatives, which are really state-owned; and the individual people's deputies, who are national deputies, are non-fractional and do not join any factions of Parliament. So once again, I would like to emphasize and thank you, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, to you, Vice-Speaker, First Vice-Speaker, Vice-Speaker for your constructive cooperation. I want to thank the Committees of Parliament, the Committee Secretariat, the Supreme Council's Office for essentially starting to work as the only team that decides. who's looking for a way to do better than putting sticks in each other's wheels. Let's work effectively further so that people feel that we're taking the right steps that make their lives better. Once again with the upcoming festivals, thank you again for the opportunity to speak out of this high rostrum. And I wish in the next year of our work together real serious successes that Ukrainian citizens will experience. Thank you, dear friends, and good-bye.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u58	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich, members of the government, thank you for working this year, it's been a difficult year. And you'll be successful next year. Once again, welcome to the anniversary, and to the beautiful Easter. We're working, we're winning! "The year of questions before the government" is over. And we move on to the next chapter of the agenda, which is set out in article 25 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is the announcement of parliamentary inquiries. And I invite you to the words of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u59	Thank you, Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Let me first inform you that 253 requests have been received from Ukrainian national deputies today. And there are several of them headed to the President of Ukraine. These questions require a special support procedure. And that's why I'm now asking for support from Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district council, the head of the Zitomir district administration, for financial assistance to the village of Lubar of the Zitomir district. Please be supportive. [[11:20:12]] For-75 Not supported. It was also a request to the President. I read it wrong, my dear colleagues. Don't be distracting now. When a person reads the questions and telephones in parallel, and 17 questions come from the hall, it is very difficult. We move on to reading other questions. And "Rose" will be after the break, after the break. The entry will be after the break. Now we're going to be announcing questions by 12 o'clock. The questions are announced. Then we announce the break, then we have the "Rose" section, which will last up to 14 hours. And I'm very much asking you not to distract the chairman at the session when the questions are announced. All right. Viktor Razwadowski to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District Administration for the allocation of funds for the conduct of operational treatment abroad, Sack Ivan Petrovich, resident of the village of Stetkovci of the Wonderland region of the Žitomir region. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir District Council, the Zitomir District State Administration, for the provision of financial assistance to the village of Lubar of Žitomir. Oleg Barna to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the promotion of domestic mineral fertilizer plants, the unemployment of tens of thousands of workers and the forced import of mineral goods from the Russian Federation in connection with their deficit in the Ukrainian market. Oleg Barna to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the negative situation that has arisen in the alcohol and economy of Ukraine as a whole, the inappropriate and corrupt activities of the Ukrispirt DP and the need to eliminate it. Eugene Dajej to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, regarding the urgent provision of information to the command and brothers of the military forces of the PP in 0849 on the whereabouts of the younger Sergeant Potapov and the older soldier Konin and providing convincing evidence of their safety and health. Savchenko’s hopes for the Attorney General of Ukraine to take all necessary steps for the full legal rehabilitation of Lviv Abramovich Gitman. Stanislava Berezhkin to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the removal of obstacles to the implementation of the investment project "Restructuring SOI-II was the village of Korotak of the Companyi district of Kyrovograd for the establishment of a pre-school facility for 20 places (adjustment)". Tetjana Crnoval to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the appointment of the leadership of the Ukrainian state-owned firm Ukkrimtransamak. Igora Artushenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of State subsidies for socio-economic development in Zaporozhye region. Paul Kishkar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminalization of officials who unlawfully failed to perform their duties during the privatization and bankruptcy procedure of the VAT "Herson cotton combination". Excuse me, Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget for the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for 2017 for the capital repair of the district road in the city of Ohtirka Sumska district. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget for the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for 2017 for the capital repair of the road of the state-owned value of Sumi Kharkiv. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the budgetary financing of the national institutions of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. Vasil Nimchenk to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the delay of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine in resolving the issue of the return of Ukrainian citizens who are being criminally punished at places of deprivation of liberty in the territory of foreign states and the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Tarasa Batenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District State Administration for the full installation of road infrastructure objects, such as the construction of sidewalks of a European model, the installation of speed limiters and the installation of a water supply network during the repair of the H-02 Lviv-Ternopil road. Tarasa Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, on the need for urgent change to the "Programme of Payments of Money for Proper Housing to Some Categories of Persons who Protected Independence, Sovereignty and Territorial Integrity of Ukraine and Members of Their Families" regarding the provision of guidance on the participation of ATOs in persons who have died in areas of anti-terrorist operation, carrying out volunteer activities. Sergia Dunayeva to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on delaying the consideration by the law enforcement authorities of the Luhansk Area of Resonance and bringing the guilty to criminal responsibility for the killing, beating, intimidation and terror of officials and members of local communities and opposition political parties. Igor Goose to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of compensation from the State aid budget and subsidies to the population for the use of energy and residential services. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on compensation for the city budget of Volodymira Volinska for the expenditure incurred in 2016 in maintaining Vladimir Volinsky's higher vocational school. Vladimir Husak to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Head of Government of the Public Shareholders Association "Ukrainian Railway" on the state of the PAT locomotive park "Ukrzaliznica" in 2012-2017. Vladimir Gusak to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine – Minister of Economic Development, Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association "Ukrainian Railway" on the removal of iron raw materials from the Horn Curve HLC by appointment to the Odessa ports (Southern ICC) in April 2017. Michael Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of lanes for trucks at the international crossing point for Ugrins-Dolgobichov. Michael Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase in health pay, the increase in the medical subsidy of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2017. Mikoli Skorika to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the status of criminal investigation No. 1201623011000254 from 29 June 2016. Olga Belkova to Prime Minister of Ukraine to improve the procedure for determining the value of the continuation of special permits for the temporary use of the drama issued by Pat "The Crushing". Jury Bublika to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the illegal possession of state property by the head of the T.O.K.K.K.K.K.K. Maxim Burbak to the executive responsibility of the head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine to complete the reconstruction of the post of "Prubne Siret" at the expense of overcoming indicative customs revenues. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on co-financing from the state budget of Ukraine for the construction of a sports and health swimming complex in the city of Chernivci. Jury Boyka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Henprocuror of Ukraine, for information on the results of the investigation of the tragic events under the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on August 31, 2015, when the destruction of the military grenade killed the fighters of the National Guard of Ukraine and injured dozens of people. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the budget of the city of Kharkiv for the full provision of insulin to patients with diabetes. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure the proper functioning of the ventilation and water supply system in the protective structures of the Kharkiv Metropolitan. Alexander Opanasenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine regarding the restructuring of Ukraine's foreign debt. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for bringing officials of the Ministry of Health to justice for damages to the state budget as a result of official negligence. Igor Shurma to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the results of criminal conduct following the signs of the commission by officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine of crime, as foreseen in part one of article 367 (service negligence) of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which was submitted to the Single Register of Investigations on July 22, 2015. Alexia Lensky, acting as head of the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, Prosecutor of the Žitomir Region for the Use of Response Measures for the Implementation of Constitutional Rights and Social Guarantees of the Žomir Civil Service Officer Kolodyuk Grigorija, who took direct part in the ATO and granted ownership within the limits of the free privatization rules set out in article 121 of the Land Code of Ukraine of 2 hectares for the conduct of private agriculture and for the non-commission of funds for the development of the land project. Alexia Lensky to the Zitomir City Head, Director of the State Institution, Žitomir District Laboratory Centre of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Head of State Environmental Inspection in the Žitomir Region for the conduct of a study of the sanitary and epidemiological state of the city of Žitomir, the use of response measures aimed at eliminating the rule of well-being, ensuring cleanliness, order and keeping quiet in M. Lives and state health standards and rules. Igora Lapina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, for the introduction of the visa regime with the Russian Federation. Andrija Shipka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the prosecution of law enforcement by the National Police in Kiev for the conduct of a preliminary investigation into the seizure by individuals of parts of the National Cancer Institute. Andrea Shipka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the social protection of families whose family died in the performance of their duties. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the state of financial support for animal companies. Alexander Nechayeva to the head of the Suma District State Administration, the head of the Suma District Council on the increase in salaries and wage rates for teachers of educational institutions and educational institutions in the Suma region, which are financed by the local budget. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Authorized President of Ukraine from the Rights of the Child, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education and Science in order to ensure the implementation of the school's boarding school program School Bus. Groups of National Deputies (Kremina, Brichenko and others) A total of 12 colleagues) to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine on the inefficient use of funds during the tendering of medical supplies by the Mikolai County Clinic. John Melnichuk to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Vinnitsky District Public Administration for the implementation of the constitutional right of citizens to free medical care for the purpose of providing the disabled child with hearing aid. Alexander Suprunenka to Kiev City Head for Improving Road Infrastructure in the Darnicki district of Kiev Alexander Suprunenka to the Kyiv City Head for the improper examination of the MP’s appeal and the use of repairs and reinforcements in the area adjacent to the preschool fence No. 700 on Rogozivska Street, 4 in the Dniprovov district of Kiev. Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to resolve the issue of the payment of the monthly debt of address assistance to internally displaced persons and the increase in the amount of the aid earmarked to cover the cost of living, including the payment of the HKG. Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to protect the legitimate rights and interests of former employees of the Mountain Multi-Profession High School in connection with the non-payment of 14-year salary debts and the breach of the discharge period. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Head of the Equality District State Administration to ensure the treatment of patients with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis in the Plains region. Vladimir Parasuka to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the verification of Colonel Donetsk Police of Yuri Holuban for cooperation with terrorist organizations known as the DNR and the LNR, and for the conduct of the Dovebán service in the Separatist Battalion East, which is fighting against the Ukrainian army. Vladimir Parasuka to the first deputy head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine to provide information on the activities and control of subjects in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. Vadim Krivochatka to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Attorney General, on the failure to take appropriate measures to investigate the situation of the removal of residents of the village of Solodke Guliapil district of Zaporez Region of the right to use roads between villages. John Baloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the capital repair of the roads of the Beregow district of Zakarpat. John Baloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the capital repair of the roads of the Provincial region of Zakarpat. Olga Bogolitz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the order of the establishment of the hospital districts. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of payment to veteran workers at the minimum wage and for the prevention of the artificially freeing of such workers, the amendment to the Cabinet Order of 07.03. 2012 No. 176 " To approve the use of the funds provided for in the State budget for the financial support of social associations of disabled persons and veterans, to visit military burials and military monuments and to perpetuate victory in the Great War of 1941-1945 ". Sergey Kaplina to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the investigation of the conflict in Poltava on April 5, 2017, and possible corruption by Poltava City authorities, which led to numerous protests. Ostapa One to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with the license conditions by Scorpion-2016. Igora Artyushenko, head of the National Bank of Ukraine, to provide information on the debt of banks and their owners to the National Bank of Ukraine. Andrea Galchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation of the implementation of state medical programmes. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Authorized President of Ukraine for the Rights of the Child, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the need for every contribution to the treatment of a pregnant child named Elina Volokita abroad in order to ensure her inalienable natural and inviolable right to health care and timely medical care by authorized authorities of the State. Andrija Lopushanski to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, Head of the Lviv Regional Administration for the Urgent Reinforcement of the Dniester River River and the Construction of Anti-Federal Buildings in Sambor, Lviv Region. Andrea Lopushanski to the head of the Lviv District State Administration on the need to restore the repair work of the bridge in the village of Podustiči of the Old Sambir district. Alexander Dehtirczuk to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the provision of a multifunctional wheelchair REC-REP-45 inhabitants of the city of Dubno, Plain region, which is a disabled group I. Alexander Sugonjako and Ruslan Solvara to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Affairs, Minister of Finance, temporarily acting as Minister of Health for the protection of the health of Ukrainian citizens living in rural areas and the creation of a network of social pharmacies. Vasila Petyovka is head of the Ukrainian State Service, with extraordinary situations regarding the decommissioning of a special vehicle to the state fire rescue post of the town-type Ust-Black Tachiv district department of the State Service Department from the extraordinary situation in the Zakarpatsk region. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the adjustment of the size of the salaries of construction workers, which is taken into account in the determination of the cost of construction of buildings, which are built with the involvement of budgetary resources, public and municipal enterprises, institutions and organizations, and loans made under State guarantees. Oleg Osuhovski to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine for the conduct of a competition for judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on compliance with the regulations laid down by law regarding the review of the appeal of the Ukrainian national deputy. Anatoly of Hirschfeld to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of the necessary targeted funds from the State Procurement Budget (building) for families who lost their homes as a result of an extraordinary situation that took place on 23 March 2017 in the city of Balaklia in the Kharkiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the need to allocate additional subsidies to the budgetary institutions of Voddarski, Skuriski, Stavishtenski, Tarostian, Tetiyev region of the Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for active financing in 2017 for the construction and capital repair of social facilities in the Kudravishten region of Kiev. Groups of National Deputies (Buglaka, Dehtirczuk and others) In total, 5 to the head of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption on the Inadmissibility of the Limitation of the Rights of Declarants. Victor Krivenk and Paul Kishkar to Henproktor Ukraine on the groundless delay in investigating the tragic death of the prominent statesman of modern Ukraine, Viacheslav Crnovola and Eugene Pavlov. Victor Krivenk and Paul Kishkar to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Žitomir District State Administration, the Lubbar District State Administration of the Žitomir Region for Land Rights Security of Peoples of the Lubar region of the Žitomir Region during the division of property of KSP "Novochotortorian". Paul Kishkar and Viktor Krivenk to the Minister for Economic Development and Trade on specific measures to address the issue of debt repayment to the Society with limited responsibility for providing licensed software to executive authorities in 2013. Roman Semenha to the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to amend the Instructions on the order of issuance of documents that demonstrate the temporary incapacity of citizens. Roman Semenha, head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee for the Enforcement of Legislation in the Field of Protection of Economic Competition. Olega Ljaška to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on increasing funding from Ukraine's State Budget 2301360 "Talking Ukrainian Citizens abroad". Irina Konstankevitch, under the temporary responsibility of Ukraine’s Minister of Health for the distribution of medicines for cancerous children in the Volin region. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science for the use of the saved budget allocated for the payment of academic scholarships, which I return every quarter to the higher educational institutions of Ukraine. Vasil Janicki to Henprocuror of Ukraine, Minister of Interior, temporarily acting as Head of the State Geology and Nadr Service, Head of the National Police Directorate in the Rhineland Area, to prevent the economic activity of the public shareholders association "Raphalian Career". Andrea Illenka, head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, Head of the Permanent Commission of the Kiev City Council for Budget and Economic and Social Development, on anticipating funding in the Kiev Social and Economic Development Programme for the reconstruction of the area of green plantings on Bratislava Street, 38. Andrija Illenka, head of the Kiev City Administration, Head of the Permanent Commission of the Kiev City Council for Budget and Economic and Social Development, on the anticipation of funding in the Kiev Social and Economic Development Programme for the capital repair of the Kyoto Municipal Cinema in the Right-wing Region. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on nuclear energy in Ukraine. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of the aviation industry in Ukraine. Sergey Rudika to the Minister of Education and Science, Minister of Social Policy, on the urgent solution of the issue of the submission of documents (a copy of special cases) of students (teachers) of the Smilan College of Food Technology of the National University of Food Technology of Ukraine, and other higher education institutions of Ukraine, for the payment of social scholarships. Oleg Petrenko and Sergei Rudik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to address the problem of the unbreakable work of PAT "Azot" and the protection of the domestic market for mineral goods from supplies from the aggressor country. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the need for necessary documents and on the issue of establishing the Blue Eugeny as a participant in hostilities. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for construction work for the construction of the unfinished construction project. Gregory Times to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the requirements of paragraph 6 of the Act "On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine concerning the Distinguishing of State and Municipal Property" in giving legal assessment to the decision of the Montenegrin District Council from 21 September 2016, No. 191-7/16. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, the Sambir city head of Lviv district, for the preservation and proper maintenance of the Les Kurbas Art Museum, located in the city of Sambir Lviv district. Dmitry Dobrodomov to Dnipropetrovsky District Attorney, Dniprovsky City Head, Head of State Environmental Inspection in Dnipropetrovsk Region on possible violations of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act as a result of construction within the Dnipro River Coastal Strip. Olesia Long to the Lightwater City Council of Kirovograd district for not allowing the elimination of the Vlasov Children’s Music School. Jury Pavlenko to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, to support the call for a session of the Ouratsk District Council of the Žitomir Region to amend the legislation to conduct tenders for the purchase of food services for students in public schools. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukraine’s Finance Minister for the Inadmissibility of Cancelling Excise Tax on the Implementation of Subjects of Small-scale Trade in Tobacco Products. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing for the restoration of the function of the Single National Register of Citizens who need to improve living conditions. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the removal of technical equipment at the Zvenigrad Centre for the preparation and retraining of labour personnel in the Cherkas region. Irina Ephraimov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the investigation into the death of Babkov Andrija Juriovich in the course of his work on the PAT "Harkovski Podopnikych plant". Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister for regulating the government's retail price of natural gas to meet the needs of the population. John Rybak, under the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health for the financing of the Bregomet Hospital of the Red Cross of the Visnik Region of the Chernivecki Region and the payment of salaries to medical personnel. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance, acting as Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the financing of the Russian-Ulma Pass and the Sheppard-Izvoarele Suchevay in the region of Putil. Igor Popov to the head of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine to reduce the cost of gas by excluding unwarranted ingredients in pricing. Igor Popova to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine in preparing a draft road map for the implementation of mine agreements. Roman Macola and Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Health, Minister of Finance, temporarily acting as Minister of Health for the purpose of introducing a single methodology for the calculation of health service tariffs. Roman Macola and Ruslan Solvar to head the Hmelnick district government, head of the Hmelnick district council, head of the Berzdian rural united territorial community to resolve the issue of the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the road’s local value, Slavuta - Horvets - Grand Pravutin, which is 0.9 kilometers [0.9 km] long. Alexander Nechayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-admission of further illegal actions by the Mikolayev observatories during the competitive selection of the director of the Mikolai Academy of Art Russian Dramatic Theatre. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the application of measures concerning the arrangement between Ukraine and the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of a bilateral memorandum on mutual recognition of maritime working documents of seafarers. Helen Sotnik to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the publication of the written work of candidates for the post of Judge of the Supreme Court. Alexander Brigintz to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on attempts to falsify the image of the Great State Herb of Ukraine. Alexander Brigintz to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine on the need for humane treatment of patients with the Volodymyr Psycho-neurological Internet of the Dnipropetrov region, Ukraine's commitment to the European Community to fight the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine, the need for adequate conditions of maintenance, medical care and nutrition for the sick and the subset of a psycho-neurological institution, and the cessation of the theft of budgetary resources. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, Director of the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance, on the issue of compensation for the payment of payments for the passage of separate categories of citizens. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council Committee on Health, Minister of Social Policy, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Director of the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Director of the National Institute of Cancer, Rector of the National Medical Academy of Postgraduate Education of the name of Shupic, Rector of the Private Higher Education Institute of the University of Kyiv Medical University of the Ukrainian Association of National Medicine, Rector of the National Medical University of the name of the Godolier, on improving the procedure of public drug purchasers with a view to resolving the timely provision of medical care to severely ill people. Sergija Leschchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the possible blockade by the Ukrainian Security Service of imports of horse alcohol. Sergey Leschchenka to the head of the Ukrainian National Police on the investigation into the infliction of bodily harm on Polish activists Kobi and Judchenk. Jury Tymoshenko to the head of Nazcomsia, who regulates the state in the financial services markets to ensure payment of insurance under a contract of voluntary personal insurance. Yuri Tymoshenko to the director of the Odeski Cow Public Stock Company for information. Sergey Valentirov to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the provision of social guarantees to the victims of the Chernobyl disaster. Anton Kisse to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of the manufacturing and technological process in the activities of the State Enterprise "Studying the name of Suvorova" of the National Research Centre "The Institute of Wine and Winery of the name of Tairov". Sergey Larina to the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food on the provision of information on the state of affairs in the process of producing the legal documentation of the State Enterprise "Centre of Certification and Expertise on Seed and Garden Material". Anna Romanov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation with the tours to the former residence of "Megigira" and its legal status. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of the interests of the State Enterprise Žitomirthorf. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine regarding the repayment of the debt payable to the agricultural enterprises of the Oleuvian region of the Žitomir region. Jaroslava Markevich to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade in Wine Licensing. Groups of National Deputies (Bilozer, Kucher and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the organization of a permanent government hotline to provide advice to participants in the ATO and members of their families. Oleg Petrenko to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine regarding the crime report, according to Art. 214 KPC of Ukraine. Oksana Bilozer to the Head of the Kyiv City State Administration to commemorate the memory of Captain Victor Mandzik of the Ukrainian Security Service, who died carrying out a combat mission in the ATO area, by renaming him as the street of Pokłowy, located in the Solomonian district of Kiev. Sergey Rudika to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine for the immediate restoration of the work of Kosarska MPD "Ukrispirt" of the Kamyan region and for the enforcement of the labour and social guarantees of the employees of the enterprise. Andrija Shinkovič to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for immediate provision for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster to receive adequate social assistance. Andrija Shinkovič is head of the National Commission, which regulates the state energy and utilities regulations on the need to save businesses that provide the population with water and water services. Borislav Bereza to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the capital repair of the elevators in the right - hand district of Kyiv. Borislav Bereza to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the development of the detailed plan of the village of Troyshina. Groups of National Deputies (Niciporenka, Ppolkakov and others) A total of 29 national deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the compliance of the head of the General Directorate of the Ministry of State in the Cherkas region of occupied office. Natalia Royal and Yuri Solod to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to stop the blockade and ensure the restoration of the full work of the DP "Sanator-Court Rehabilitation Centre of the Slovenian resort". Igora Brichenka to the director of the Ukrainian Centre for Quality Assessment of Education for the Design of a Testing Point for the conduct of the ZNO-2017 in the town of Snigurovka. Dmitry Schenchev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the repair of roads of state importance in the Grand Duchy region of Kharkiv, which are in a critical state of emergency. Jurya Solovya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the reconstruction of the swimming pool of the Rožniwski NVK "Gutzulščina" of the name of the funeral home of the Kosovo Regional Council of Ivano-Frankiv region. Jury Solova to head the State Service of Ukraine, in an extraordinary situation regarding the provision of a new modern - day fire vehicle, State Fire Rescue Unit No.14 of Kosovo, Johno-Frankiv region. Alexander Dehtirczuk to the head of the High Council of Justice on the use of urgent measures to ensure that residents of the Radivilov region of the Plain area have access to justice. Ruslan Demczak to the head of the General Directorate of the Dergeokadastre in the Vinnitsk Region for the verification of the legality of compliance with the land allocation procedure in the territory of the Vynitzt district of Vynitzté Region by the General Administration of the Dergeokadastre in the Vinnitsk region. Ruslana Demczak to the Head of State Environmental Inspection in the Vinnitsk Region on the violation of environmental safety and the need to eliminate garbage dumps located in the area of the Attacking Village Council of the Vynitzt district. Irina Souslowy and Borislav Rosenblatt to the Minister of Education and Science on the non-admission of the municipal educational institution "The Zitomir special boarding school of I-III boarding school" for visually impaired children. Constantine Jarinic to the head of the Kirovograd District Council on the use of measures aimed at ensuring adequate housing conditions for employees of the Kirovograd Academy of Music and Dramatic Theatre Mark Kropivnitsky. Oksana Sold to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an increase in the state funding of the budget programme for the treatment of Ukrainian citizens abroad in 2017. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy, the Odessa District State Administration, the Odessa City Council on the objective review of the address of Bashmak Svetlana and Panchenko Galina, who live in Odessa and have the appropriate social benefits, on the need to verify the adequacy of the payment of the debt for gas supply and support in the establishment of an internal apartment gas counter for the proper payment of housing and utility services, and on the provision of the necessary comprehensive legal and social assistance to pension applicants for non-reduction of living standards and social protection. Yurya Devyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for a return to the state of all national gas distribution systems and their components, which are free of charge for the use of non - state ownership entities. Vitalia Stasuk and Dmitry Andryewski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the update of national standards and technical regulations of Ukraine in the field of energy efficiency and for bringing them into line with European Union standards. Paul Djublik to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Director General of the State Enterprise "The Ukrainian National Radio Centre for the Conversion of Radio Frequencys necessary for the launch of the technology "ZG. Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, Head of the State Agency for the Zone of Deprivation, Acting Head of the State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, Head of the District Council for the Settlement of Problems in the Use of the Territory of the United Territorial Society of the People’s Village Council. Victor Vuka to the Prime Minister on breaking cooperation with foreign Ukrainians according to Ukrainian legislation and sabotaging the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Foreign Ukrainians. Oksana Sold to the Acting Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for a review of the MP’s appeal. Edward Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Odessa City Council on the need for objective consideration in connection with the new circumstances of the recommenced collective appeal of residents of the Kyiv district of Odessa, who live in houses 50-58 on King's Street and surrounding houses to verify compliance with the law at the site: Odessa, King's Street, 56 A, and to prevent the destruction of the green zone. Sergia Soboljeva to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Henprocuror of Ukraine on the criminalization of the head of the Zaporozhye District Administration of Constantine Brill, the prosecutor of the Zaporozhye region of Valerija Romanov and his deputy, Arthur Shapolova, who, under the previous contract, forge criminal conduct, intervene in the work of the courts and use force forces to deal with the opposition. Roberta Gorvato to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the proper provision of certification bodies for the individual approval of wheeled vehicles, parts and equipment. Robert Gorvato to Deputy Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine on the harmonization of national environmental requirements for wheeled vehicles with international (European) standards. Yurya Bereza until the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to refuse to establish a disability group as a participant in an antiterrorist operation in eastern Ukraine, Fedir Federu Fedisin. Jurya Bereza to the Lviv City Head for clarification on grounds of refusal to rent premises located on the street of November China, 10 in the city of Lviv, 1 in the State Special Transportation Service. Dear colleagues, you and I have completed the announcement of parliamentary inquiries, 253 parliamentary inquiries. And I'm calling a break until 12 o'clock, 30 minutes according to the Rules. Then everyone who wants to be part of the "Victory" section will be invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u60	And I didn't get a list of the disgruntled speakers, so I don't have one. These are all requests, and there is no list of unsatisfying statements. That's why we're calling it a 12-hour break for 30 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, please return to the session room after the break. There will be a continuation of our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, according to our Friday's Rules, we are now starting the "Variance" section, and the deputies who wish to participate in these debates, in this discussion, I ask you to sign up now for the opportunity to appear under the heading "Variance." Please, the first in the section "from various issues" is the National MP Artemenko. Please, Mr. Artemenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u63	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! Yesterday there was an event that appeared to have a direct attitude toward me. Yesterday, the International Centre for Political Research, led by Vasil Filipchuk, a well-known diplomat, a well-known actor, an expert, was invaded by unknown people who, with weapons in masks, put down all the people who were present at the International Centre and without presentation of any documents, began a search. For five hours, we and the public, together with other national deputies, with other actors, even with the former Russian national deputy Duma Ponomarov, tried to open the door. Regrettably, the insiders did not respond, nor did they respond to the demands of the police that I was summoned, nor did they respond to the demands of the police investigation team. What really happened? In fact, there was a search in the criminal case under article 111, part one where I was twice showing as a witness, not just me, but also my former colleagues in the Radical faction, other deputies, other actors, public figures. And the search was based on the ruling of the Kyiv District Court of Glossiev, and here it's interesting, according to Vasil Filipchuk, that he's the one who developed a plan in December 16 for the excitement of Ukrainian society about. In the wake of the coup d'état and with the aim of implementing this plan, he handed over documents to the National MP of Artemenko to transfer this plan to the environs of President Trump. That's the most absurd thing I've ever seen in my life. Now, of course, it's not just me as a person who has a bearing on this, it's not just the representatives of the public, it's not just the people who have learned about it from the media, it's not just the representatives of the embassies, it's not just the representatives of other media who are interested in what's going to happen next. Thus, the changes in our country will continue. Next, the nation should be headed by people who are actually engaged in Ukraine, not in the blood trade. And then people in this country should be led by people who will be responsible for it, like Oleg Lazko, like Sergey Vlasenko, like the people who are present in this room right now. And I know that we're together, we're going to do everything we can to make the whole country a success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, please welcome me to the words of Eutusek the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u65	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues, over the past year, we've been looking at Ryder's farm property, the crops of all farms, the total number of them is already around seven thousand, and these are systemic things. I think it's just the day before or the day before, when we have to go to the All-U.S. referendum to have our Ukrainian citizens answer to the authorities, including the majority of deputies here, whether we need to feed the agricultural land. So on the night of April 3-4, 2017, an unknown entered the farm head's house, the Generous Gift of Mary, by Mikoli Baranika, from the village of Rakovo Lviv. The villains of the north were tortured by the couple, killing them with hammers. On the night of March 23, 17, there was a brutal killing of the head of the farm farm, Igor Majko, in the village of Grbinka in the Basilkow region of Kiev. The criminals beat Igor with iron bars and killed him. In the village of Forgolán, Zacarpathia, three unknowns were robbed and beaten by a farmer. On the night of March 26, 2017, three tractors, as well as a truck, were destroyed in the Kobeljak area of Poltavska. Moreover, the active public position exerts pressure on the activists of the Association of Farmers of Ukraine and on its leader, the heads of the district and district centers of the association, on all those who have not been intimidated and protected by the rights of farmers, to oppose the sale of Ukrainian lands. Pressure on the family of the president of the association, John Tomic, is exerted through organized traffic with his son. In the case of the false conclusion of medical expertise, the conclusion of the crassological analysis has disappeared, and the case is largely falsified. In general, we have to hold an all-Ukrainian referendum to prevent the sale of Ukrainian land. And in the Ukrainian Parliament, all normal factions have to focus their attention on protecting Ukrainian land.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u66	Thank you, Sir Sergio. Please, John Sporish, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u67	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Of course, as the month is said to be vacations, not just journalists, but also some national MPs. There's no vacation here. Because we need to work in our constituencies, apart from the committees. Yeah, if anyone's a "lister," they're on vacation. But I think that if I have, for example, five regions and I have to go around almost every village, every district, to take in people, so we don't have any vacations. We'll work. But, at the same time, once again, we're about to come to the districts and question number one where it stands today. I understand there are various questions. But at the same time, we have to decide today that our district hospitals have funding. And I think the Regional Development Fund should point to this, no matter what, there are appropriate documents, no, we have to do everything to make sure that the district hospitals have funding and people can serve. We see what kind of reform is being done medically. That the drugs are going to be cheaper. But at the same time, we still need hospitals to work for us. The second question I wanted to raise today. Today agricultural enterprises are suffering, unable to finish or continue farming because there are no fertilizers. And this question has been raised on many occasions. I wanted Minister Kutovov, all who were involved in the Cerkas mineral fertilizer plant, to pay attention. Because such fertilizers as KASA today await hundreds of thousands of tons of agriculture. They're done, they won't be needed anymore. At the same time, we must do everything we can to get them into the hands of farmers today, farmers. Third thing I wanted to pick up. That's what we want to do with the budget. And we have to do it. But at the same time, they're running. For example, we have the limestone station, there's this narrow track, a locomotive depot that refers to the Christian locomotive depot. And I think there's a room that's been in there for 20 years. You could take a private, you could do something, you could do something, you could do some work, you could do some work, you could fill in the budget. Unfortunately, there is no legislative field. So I'd like to turn this into Wojciech Balchun himself, the leader of our railroad, so that I can take this question as quickly as possible. And in conclusion, I would like to welcome everyone with the great Easter, to wish health, to wish good holidays to all, to all, to Ukraine, not only to our electorates, and to be all of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u68	Thank you for the warm words, dear fellow. The national deputy Eutuszek, who had previously addressed the Supreme Council’s Office, requested that his address be considered as a deputy’s address to the Attorney General’s Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And now I give the floor to the national deputy Romano Romanyuk. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, on Tuesday Parliament did not vote in favour of the draft Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on second reading. The project is considered to be rejected, and all work on it needs to be started first. Let me remind you that you and I have adopted amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine, changed the fundamentals of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Now we need to adopt a law that will determine how these standards are implemented. The new Constitutional Court Act is needed by society. I understand that there were observations before this bill. And I think that's normal, given its size. But let's look for a way out of this. Let's talk about all the issues. Let's find quality compromise solutions. Let us work on the text of controversial norms. Let's write them out so there's no notice. Moreover, there are conclusions of the Venice Commission with their proposals for almost every standard. And of course, all of these proposals should also be included in the final text of the project. In accordance with the requirements of the Rules, if you know that the Supreme Council has rejected a bill or a bill that repeats it in substance cannot be submitted at the current and subsequent successive sessions of the Supreme Council in due course. Such a bill can only be registered at the next session. We have time to prepare the text. And I am now asking all colleagues to join in this work on the new text of the bill now in order for Parliament to be able to adopt a new Constitutional Court Act at the next session without any notice. Let's work and adopt a consolidated, high-quality bill. Also, with the opportunity, I would like to greet everyone sincerely with Easter. To want peace of mind, mood, optimism, and faith in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u70	Thank you, Your Honor. And now the word to the national deputy of Korczyk, who is passing it on to his colleague, Andrew Teteruk. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u71	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Ukrainian people! I want to thank Vitalia Korczyk for giving me his word, to welcome Easter, which is about to be in Ukraine, and to wish everyone peace, harmony and success. And I also want to thank all the people's deputies who voted yesterday for the Private Search Bill. This brings Ukraine closer to more than 100 countries where there is already a successful detective activity and helps citizens defend their legitimate constitutional rights and provide necessary services. I expect the Head of our Parliament to sign his own, and I also ask the President not to delay signing this bill, so that we can start new jobs that not only fill the budget by paying taxes, but, above all, allow for the realization of those Ukrainians who have the appropriate expertise, the desire to provide services on detective issues. So once again, I welcome everyone's adoption of a very important bill for all of us, I wish all of us peace, harmony and success, and we will believe that we are all capable of making our country a successful, strong and capable European country. With the coming Easter! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u72	Thank you for your performance. Dear colleague. The national MP, Danielne, gives the floor to his fellow MP, Bondar. Mr. Mikhailo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u73	First of all, I would like to welcome everyone with the coming resurrection of Christ, the desire for peace, first of all, let the angel of God protect all, health to all, the victory of our land. And I want to speak to my respectable colleagues, to my respectable citizens. We were already looking for help for little Nastya Guzarsky, who needed a heart transplant, it's from the Brody region. Thanks to all the caregivers who have raised funds for the family’s stay in India, thanks to MOH and Minfin, who counted the cost of the operation, the girl is already in India waiting for the donor body, and we hope that she will return to Ukraine as a healthy child. Thank you very much to the colleagues of Edvok Ostak Volodymyrovich for his support and assistance. Therefore, the important help that everyone can receive can be done much more together and help our children. So once again, I turn to all who are concerned. The village of Bilyavtzi and the parents of Victoria Hymza also in the region of Brody, my 119th constituency, are asking everyone to join the fundraiser for the operation of their 15-year-old daughter Victoria. Diagnosis: Chest hypercrophysicosis, pericardial pathology The operation on the back is worth 200,000 dollars. Parents cannot raise such a large amount of money on their own. My parents are calling on everyone who cares about helping 15-year-old Victoria Gimsey. PrivateBank card number for the mother of Himzi Galina Petrovna: 4149499649832175 Again: 4149499649832175. Thank you. I hope you'll be able to help. Thank you again and with the upcoming festivals.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u74	Thank you. We ask as a deputy's request to form, and we ask our colleagues to join us in this important matter — the child's help. Dear colleagues, our next fellow MP, Livik, conveys the word to Yuri Solovia. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u75	Thank you. Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Rumble and Atonement. My fellow Members, on the one hand, I would like to draw your attention to one of the key reforms that Ukraine is looking forward to and which will be considered as soon as possible in the Ukrainian Parliament, is the reform of the pension system and how this reform should be implemented. Because I want to say that this reform is not just a social reform, but in the whole world, pension systems are the key elements of any country's economic development. Because can we talk today about how the Ukrainian economy gets cheap and long money when today's deposits, which are in the banking system, at most, per year, and if they are located, it's at an extremely high percentage? Can it be said that the reform of the solidarity system will allow pensioners to secure a comfortable pension rather than exclusively protect themselves from poverty? Absolutely not. Therefore, if we are talking about a comprehensive, systematic and structural reform of the pension system in Ukraine, we should not only talk about reforming the solidarity system that is clearly needed, but we should talk about mandatory reform and the introduction of a mandatory accrual pension system by 2018. I just want to notice, and I want to focus on a few numbers. Our delay has led to the loss of more than $7 billion in Ukraine over the past 10 years of what we did not have in Ukraine. Today we go with our hands open to international financial institutions, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the European Investment Bank and on our knees we ask for resources. Instead, we forget that today, citizens in their hands, and in many cases under pillows, there are amounts that are extremely largely larger than the amounts that we ask in international institutions. It is estimated by the World Bank that more than $100 billion of the United States is at hand today. And our joint task with you is not only to consider small and not large, but important today in Ukraine, but also to consider the systemic and structural ones that, to my deep conviction, are the pension reform with mandatory introduction since 2018 of its cumulative level. I'm sure that today's job, which has more than 20 people's deputies working on it, is going to work. Only at the last meeting of the Committee on Economic Policy did we discuss this issue in detail with Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Rosenk. And I'm sure we're close to reforming the solidarity system as soon as possible in the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u76	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Many who would like to speak. Thank you so much for the talk. Please, Andrew Illenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u77	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians! Of course, it's absolutely blasphemous when today is April 14th, and the next session of the belligerent Parliament will be held on May 16th. But I wanted to say no to that, I wanted to say that traditionally this year there will be a celebration of the heroes of the Cold Spring, which this year will be dedicated to the 100th anniversary of the Ukrainian Revolution and the revival of free Cossacks. Traditionally, this event will be organized by the Cold Jar historical club led by Roman Koval, also by the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the National Corps, the Right Sector, other patriotic organizations that will be conducting this event together in the Cold Spring. Because it's really a day. These days they've become legendary, they've been doing this every year for years. And this year, it's going to be a Jubilee West, it's going to be a very big move, and we're inviting all of the Ukrainians to Church to the Cold Spring. This is going to be April 29-30. It will begin on April 29 at 1 p.m. in the village of Medvedovka, near the monument of Maxim Iron. There will be a discovery of the event itself. There's going to be a reconstruction of the modern battle using military technology, an exposition of weapons, a modern-day soldier's squadron, and military-practical training from the All-U.S. Sokoyl and Azov. It's gonna be a music festival, a documentary festival. The measures will continue on April 30 in the village of Melniki, on the shores of the Haydamatic pond, the Monastery of the Motherland, and the furry Buddha. The details will all be on the site of the History Club Cold Yar. This is going to be a big deal. They will, of course, be dedicated to the memories and veneration of the heroes of the cold - colored side. But we will also talk a lot about today's events, focusing on today's heroes, who, like the cold-skinned ones a hundred years ago, protected Ukrainian land from the aggressor, from the Moscow occupation. And today, the great-grandsons of the Cold Spring continue the same struggle on the eastern front against the Moscow invader. So once again, I invite all the Ukrainians on April 29-30, the Cold Jar of honoring our heroes and honoring our modern heroes. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u78	Thank you for the invitation, April 29-30 in the Cold Spring, to take steps to honor our heroes. Please welcome the national deputy Halasyuk, who is presented with the word of his colleague Mrs. Kocheljeva. Please, Mr. Victor. April 29th, April 29th to April 30th, is a wonderful opportunity for everyone to visit Cherkaščina, Chile, in the Cold Spring, where these important measures will take place. Thank you for the invitation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u79	Dear Ukrainian people, distinguished colleagues of national MPs, who are not indifferent to the fate of the country and who are in this room today. This week, a historic decision has been registered in Parliament, the Supreme Council Resolution 6346, which aims at changing the country's economic policy, protecting national interests, overcoming poverty and raising the standard of living of citizens in Ukraine. This is an appeal to the President, the Prime Minister and the Ukrainian Parliament on the need for a radical change in economic, social monetary policy. I am grateful to the 37 Ukrainian national deputies who supported the initiative of Oleg Lášk to develop and support such a strategic plan. We have identified the key challenges that threaten our country today. It's a mass poverty of citizens, it's a high unemployment rate, it's an investment deficit, it's an industrial decline, it's a dependence on external loans and it's on external energy. It's an excessive shadow economy, social injustice and corruption that are destroying our country today. But not only have we identified these threats, which are very well known to every citizen, but the authorities are not talking about them today, the authorities are talking about promoting those successes that are not really there. We've suggested real steps to change the situation, 7 key directions. These are radical institutional reforms and overcoming corruption, including the full relaunch of the prosecution system and the judicial system in Ukraine, which is increasing the responsibility of government officials. The second strategically important block is financial stability. It envisions a change in the role of the National Bank to work in the interests of the economy, a de-offshoring of Ukraine's economy, a write-off of a large part of the government's debt, which will save public spending, direct them to raise social standards, industrial development. The third very important block is to gain energy independence. This is an increase in the production of hydrocarbons in Ukraine, and this is a large-scale energy-generating exercise that will allow Ukraine to become a net exporter of natural gas in 3-4 years. The next block is a new economic course. It's a bet on its own manufacturer, it's the end of this shameful so-called collaboration with the International Monetary Fund, the return of credit and the work on account of its own industry, its own production. To this end, Ukrainian industrial policy. This is a block of modern infrastructure that envisions demonopolization, investment in this direction. This is the development of the village in a new model when farmers are actually farmers in the countryside, not just the land, but their farms, and they will be successful in developing their farms. And finally.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u80	Thank you, Mr. Victor. You may still have the opportunity to speak today. Now, a word to our honorary colleague, Mr. Yegor Soboljev, who is given the right to speak with his colleague Kostenko. Please, Mr. Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u81	This week there was one very important event that wasn't noticed enough both in society and in Parliament. The court returned to the anti-corruption prosecutor a record of a violation by one of the officials of the Corruption Act. Remember, more than a year ago, Economic Development Minister Ivaras Abromavishius said that he was being pressured to appoint dependent managers of state enterprises. The Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor’s Office then issued a report on corruption and for over a year no court in Ukraine has been able to consider the decision, is afraid, is turning back. This suggests once again that the task of this Parliament and the task of the whole society is to create as soon as possible in Ukraine at least one true court. You know, we've suggested that we create a specialized anti-corruption court and involve foreigners in the election of Ukrainian judges who will be sentencing top-corruptioners. Each day, each week delay with this decision confirms how important it is to do so immediately. Many people in this Parliament, and even more beyond it, ask, "How do you make these decisions?".. Not only is the Anti-Corruption Court Act blocked, but this week's Parliamentary Committee of State Building votes on "Peter Prashenko's Block" and "The People's Front" have rejected the bill on occupied territories, which has destroyed forever a very important corrupt scheme of "blood trade", trade in occupied areas. Similarly, the Law on Open Elections for Party Lists is not put to the vote when a person can vote both for the party and for a particular candidate. The law banning political advertising, which is the main weapon of oligarchs in every election. The Anti-Corruption Act, which protects people who expose corruption, offers to pay them money when they keep this money from the state. How these laws are promoted is the most important question in the days, weeks, and months to come. I think the first thing we need to understand is a huge mistake to think that we can't do that. A huge mistake for both the people here in Parliament and the people outside Parliament. Society has to take over the Parliament, and society has to learn how to manage Parliament. We need a rally of people under the Supreme Council when important decisions are not made. We need control over the voting of each MP or the refusal to vote. And then the truth that everything in our hands, our destiny remains ours, wins again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u82	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Kishkar, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u83	We've got plenty of time, holidays, holidays. Dear citizens of Ukraine, there have been several significant events this week. I'm going to start by saying hello to the All-Ukrainian public organization Plast, to which we celebrated our 105th anniversary this week. I confirm that, as in life and in public life, there is nothing to live by. I think if we had a thousand 100-150 plates, this state would never let Crimea and war in eastern Ukraine be separated. And this is precisely an effective tool for positive Ukrainianization in the development of the cultural features that our nation has, the promotion of a healthy cult. The way of life, the cultivation of all the Ukrainian acquisitions we have from the time of the tropical culture to the heroes of the Celestial 100 and the heroes of Ukraine that continue to protect our nation in the east of our state. To confirm that there is nothing to live on in itself, a few words about sports reform. We have a paradoxical situation where the Ministry itself determines the implementation of the reform and the introduction to Parliament of a law on reform of this sector by December of this year. And he's doing everything he can to get, for example, the preparations for the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo to be broken down. And some federations didn't get the necessary licenses and didn't present our country in this global forum. In particular, the paradoxical situation consists of the karate Federation, which has, objectively, the opportunity to receive 4-6 medals at the next Olympics. Ironically, the preservation of the Soviet system of sport management allows us to recognize certain or other types of Olympic sports, not by international federations, not by decision of the International Olympic Committee, but by decision of the Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine. And at this point in time, the lack of funding of the karate Federation and their failure to obtain appropriate licences will lead us to simply lose opportunities to win the Olympic prizes. I pay attention to both Mr. Minister and Mr. Prime Minister, and I point out to Mr. President that this tool and the development of sports such as karate, such sports that allow you to increase your professional, physical readiness, moral-willed qualities, should be your priority in times of war. No, don't kill our sport. Let them go to the international competitions where we get our licenses.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u84	Thank you, Sir Paul. Please, Olena Sotnik. Now you have a word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u85	Thank you. I'm going to talk about global reform today. The reform of the judicial system. In fact, a fair trial is probably the only guarantee against usurping people and protecting their rights in this country. And most of all after Maidan, after the Dignity Revolution, people are looking forward to this reform. But what we're seeing today is actually imitation. And I'll give you some evidence of this simulation. Well, first of all, it's obvious that the authorities have refused to introduce and vote for the Anti-Corruption Court Act. It was given months ago, but unfortunately, no step had been taken to consider it. Perhaps the authorities are afraid because a few friends, including the President, will be planted. Speaking of today's loud enough scandal that has unfolded around the selection of candidates for the Supreme Court of Ukraine, members of the Public Council of Virtue have already stated that they suspect the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges in fraud. I have been asked accordingly that the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges publish on its website all the written work of the candidates so that the society that has now lost confidence in this competition can see for itself whether the evaluation results are fair. And this is the only way to restore confidence in this competition. Otherwise, we can say that the actual facts of fraud were at the time of the election of the candidates. Then, a year ago, we voted with you in favour of the High Council of Justice, a corresponding law. To date, the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges has been given the opportunity to re-test judges. It was very loud for society to predict that all judges who were unworthy would go through this procedure and be released. Sadly, though, it can be noted today that the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges has submitted zero candidates to the High Council of Justice for release. 300 Maidan judges. Of these, only 33 were released, and only because of this Supreme Council. I can even say that a large part of these even 33 have already appealed to the court to charge this. All the other judges, to this day the High Council of Justice has only filed 5, the disciplinary commission, the judges to be released, everyone else is working and actually doing justice. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine. We saw that this was an attempt to destroy the actual Constitutional Court and to protect human rights in Ukraine. So I urge authority, remember that people can endure anything, but they will not tolerate the destruction of the hope of justice and of justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u86	Thank you. Please, now two national deputies are Mr. Lozova and Linko are handing over the word to their colleague Oleg Lazko. So please, for six minutes, he has the right to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u87	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. In these great days, I want to welcome the Ukrainians with holidays. It's an opportunity to pause, think about the meaning of life, what we live for, why we come to this world, where the country moves, and if we do everything we can to make sure that then at the age of years, and that youth, as we know, passes very quickly, so that it won't be painful for purposeless years, as the classic wrote. I think, and this is my personal position as leader of the Radical Party, and our team, that politics, economic policy, social policy, monetary and credit policy, which is now in power in Ukraine, is a wrong policy. It robs our home country of the future, it deprives our people of the opportunity to realize themselves in their home country. There are a few basic principles on which to form. In fact, a new state is being built after the Dignity Revolution. The foundations of this state, the foundation on which this State, as Rome, must stand for thousands of years, must be justice, patriotism, spirituality, Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian word, Ukrainian church and respect for human rights. And that's why I'd like to draw your attention now, my distinguished colleagues, to our people, to our peasants, which is why we're all sitting with you in this room that makes the country survive today. Sadly, peasants are usually mentioned only on the day of workers, on the day before the day of agricultural workers, and people have to live every day. Work in the village, God give no one such hard work. When women are 50 years old, their hands are scratched, their legs are worn, their health is gone. And over the course of 30 to 40 years, there's 900 of them in the cologne, 1,000 of them. And the prices for drugs are the same as in the city, and the prices for food are not lower, and children need to be put on their feet and studied and educated. And all of this is on the hill, and all of this is due to the patch of land that is, thanks to the piglet that rumbles elsewhere in the village courtyard. Because if there were two cows, three cows, before each court, there are no cows, no cows, no cows, no cows, no cows, because people have no health to keep them because young people leave the village. And most of all, there's no price for products that are hard to produce, and then there's no price for money. Today, the authorities tell us what to sell the land, for this will allow an investor to be brought to the village. Dear villagers, dear Ukrainians! It's as much a lie as the privatization of the 1990s, when millions of Ukrainians were handed out by vouchers, told that there would be dividends, everyone would be co-owner of national property. In total, there were 10 owners, and millions of people were batres for these owners, and none of them, except for a small amount of dividends. That is exactly the kind of affair the authorities want to make with the earth. An effective landowner will not come. An effective owner of Ukrainian land can be one -- Ukrainian peasant, Ukrainian farmer, not latifundist, and where a transnational corporation with offices in New York, Singapore or elsewhere. Because the office has to be in that village where the farmer processes land and taxes there have to be paid, and social expenses, and the person has to live there. And that's why the faction of the Radical Party, and together, thank you to all the colleagues of the other factions who have supported us, we've registered changes to the Constitution that agriculture is the foundation of the agricultural system of the country. Only a farmer, a Ukrainian peasant, must be the master of this land. 175 signatures of the National Deputies were collected under these amendments to the Constitution. Unfortunately, under these changes to the Constitution there is no signature of my esteemed colleagues from the Fatherland faction, not Julius Timoshenko, not Sergey Eutuska, who spoke here, he said there was no need to sell the land. Our initiative would have to be to encourage farmers to be farmers on their own land. I'll tell you why Timoshenko, the honourable Yulia Timoshenko, did not sign, unlike what he said about support for farmers, was not actually signed under amendments to the Farmers Support Constitution. Here's the Memorandum with the International Monetary Fund since October 31, 2008, signed by Julia Timoshenko. According to this memorandum, they assumed the responsibility of establishing a land market. To implement this memorandum, Prime Minister Timoshenko introduced to the Supreme Council a bill on the land market. Accordingly, Prime Minister Timoshenko’s 2008 Land Market Bill, foreign governments, foreign citizens, and stateless persons were to be subject to the land market. On the 26-page bill, you can't find a word about farmers, there are foreign states, there are foreign citizens, Ukrainian farmers, there are no Ukrainian peasants. So I propose that we stop lying to people and really support Ukrainian peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u88	Please give the following address is the national deputy Golovko, to whom his colleague Marchenko gives the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u89	Mikhailo Golovko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolish. Honourable MPs, colleagues, respected TV viewers, what happened yesterday in the walls of parliament, yesterday proved that this Parliament is a pro-Ukrainian Parliament, not a Parliament that advocates the interests of the Ukrainian people, but just serves a bunch of oligarchs. And what I'm saying is, the Power Market Act, which was adopted in Parliament yesterday, basically there was this kind of conspiracy between different oligarchic groups, we saw that not only was it voted for by the so-called coalition, the BPP faction, the People's Front, but also by the Obluk, the oligarchic groups "The Will of the People," the Rebirth, and the Radical Party, unfortunately. What I'm saying is that this bill, which undermines the security, the energy security of our nation and practically forces the Ukrainians to be impoverished again today, because the price of electricity for the common people is going to be raised at least 3-5 times, it's going to hit the queues of every ordinary Ukrainian. Moreover, it will defeat our nation as a country that can compete in international markets because today the Ukrainian economy is the most energy efficient. According to the data, it's conditional. The creation of conditional fuel per dollar of GDP that the country spends, Ukraine spends the most in Europe – $1.2. Our neighbours in Poland, Romania, are 0.23 cents, 0.24 cents, and in countries like France. Germany is 11 cents. So they say that ten times less energy is spent on creating one dollar into GDP. So I want to say that this law has unfortunately changed the practice where the state was. regulated electricity between cheap nuclear and hydropower and expensive heat. It was energy - efficient that the price was levelled and one price was given to consumers. Today, unfortunately, this rule has been repealed and this institution of mediators has been introduced, as it were, by traders who will directly buy cheap electricity, nuclear power, and this power plant will go to any of the President's friends, this electricity will go cheap abroad, and the Ukrainians will pay expensive electricity from the thermal power plants. And that's why, of course, this next time is practically impacting the economy of Ukraine and the security of our citizens. I mean, we've fought with you recently, we've managed to cancel the gas bill, but unfortunately, the Electricity Act also introduces subscribers to all those who are connected to the power grid. And that's why this law has violated many of the rules of the Constitution. Freedom didn't vote in favour of this bill. Freedom considers it unconstitutional, we consider it anti-national, we think that this bill is above an oligarch agreement. Therefore, we demand that it be lifted immediately. And electricity has to be brought back under state control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u90	Thank you, too. And I'd like to invite you to the speech of the National Fisherman. Yes, sorry, colleagues, I could. Yeah, sorry, please, we've got Rybak sitting here, I've made a mistake. And now the national deputy wolf. Excuse me. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u91	Thank you. Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Ladies and gentlemen, last week the leader of the Radical Party took part in the X Kyiv Security Forum, this representative square to discuss global and European security issues with leading world politicians and experts. In his historic speech, Oleg Lazko expressed our vision of an adequate strategy for a democratic world in the face of the growing aggression of the Putinian Russia. I'd like to introduce you to his main thesis. To the conviction of the Radical Party, we must not bury our heads in the sand and honestly acknowledge that Russia has established a rematching, revisionist, fascist regime that willfully destroys modern international law. Russia is actually fighting a hybrid war not only against Ukraine, but also against Europe, the United States and the civilized world poses a threat to all democratic countries. So not just a coalition to support Ukraine as a victim of Russian aggression, but a broad antiputinian coalition to protect the entire democratic world is needed, as the Anti-Hitler Coalition was created in its time. This requires serious mutual effort. We are stressing the need to put an end to the aggressor's peace policy and move to universal restraint and isolation of Russia, otherwise in Europe it will only increase the risk of a great war. It is important to continue, expand and deepen sanctions against Russia, especially to impose severe economic sanctions, otherwise the West may suffer much greater losses in the future. Ukraine needs extensive military assistance, such as modern defence weapons. The Geneva format of negotiations involving Ukraine, the United States, the EU and Russia should be restored, instead of too narrow – Normandy and Minsk. And extend it to other nuclear powers, members of the Budapest Memorandum. A strategic decision by the West on Ukraine's future as an integral part of European civilization and the allocation of large-scale resources – military, financial, economic, technological – for Ukraine's European integration, particularly for the implementation of the new Marshall Plan for Ukraine. Finally, it is necessary to win Russia's declaration of the Second Cold War with the aim of final pacification and democratization of Russia, as was done with the aggressor states Germany and Japan after World War II. The Radical Party is convinced that the Ukrainians are a strong people, and with the help of the free world, we will win and win.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u92	Thank you. And now, please, National Deputy Artushenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's all very peaceful and beautiful here, and only without a cult of personality. Please, Mr. Artushenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u93	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, journalists, TV setters, respected Ukrainians! In my speech, I would like to support our colleague, National Deputy Artem Witka, who has taken the initiative to create a Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the actions of the National MP, the head of the Parliamentary Committee, Sergey Rybalka, on the possible political raiding of the ABB store network. Because before the law all should be equal, regardless of high rank, partying, or property. The main thrust of this decision was the release of the film "The Reverse With a Mandate." In this film, journalist researcher Alexei Stancevski refers to the evidence and testimony he has gathered of the National MP's involvement in ordering a dirty piano company to black out the ABB supermarkets for their destruction and further acquisition. The story is that Sergey Fish is a man with a double bottom. A Fighter of Corruption or a Political Raider? It's the answer to these questions and the mother. give TSK. In my opinion, a hit on ABB is a hit on the wallets of several million Ukrainians who come to these shops every day to buy food and supplies. It is in these stores that prices are socially oriented, which means prices are lower than in many other networks. These are tens of thousands of jobs and millions of taxes paid to the Ukrainian budget, including the military congregation that is going to protect our country. Therefore, to destroy the ABB network is to act in violation of national economic interests and put Ukraine's food security at risk. The provocations that journalists in the film have associated with the name of this national MP will deliberately disrupt the population, and they will solve the situation, thus putting in place a plan to destabilize the situation from the inside of the country. In this context, I would like to stress that we need to strengthen business protection against raids and for their organizers and perpetrators to anticipate more severe penalties. I believe that the Ukrainian Parliament, elected after the Dignity Revolution, should give due political assessment to the actions of the people's deputies, who, while in positions of responsibility, are engaged in actions that tarnish the high rank of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. The law must be one for all. Political corruption is no less damaging to our country and is damaging Ukraine’s investment attraction. So the temporary commission of inquiry, which I am supporting, I hope will provide a proper and, above all, objective assessment of the activities of its figures, which will be a safeguard for all others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u94	Please welcome Yuri Derevyanko, who is delegated this right by his colleague Lucenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u95	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! The Will Party is firmly opposed to selling Ukrainian land now thoughtlessly and quickly. The Will Party believes that the commitments now made by the President, the Prime Minister, the Head of the National Bank, by signing a memorandum as well as by the Minister of Finance, by signing a memorandum with the IMF, are almost one that constitutes a crime of sale, the immediate sale of Ukrainian peasant land. The Will Party advocates that the transition to the land market be made solely consistently, so that it is a civilized market for the earth and the steps that we need to take are made up of the following. First of all, it's the introduction of a transparent lease market. This is the legal protection of farmers, or active owners of pies that operate on the earth. This is the transfer of land to communities outside the settlements, 4355. Today, Mr. Groissman has promised that he and the government will support this. And stop the derby and corruption that is being carried out today by the Dergeokadastrom in this area. Fourth, it's the introduction of a powerful farm support program and the formation of a farmer class so that farmers have the ability to buy land when the market works. Fifth, it is the creation of a national open online auction market system when there will be a fair price when all previous conditions are met so that landowners can sell the land at a fair price. We need to understand that if there's an immediate and rapid attempt to dissipate the land, sell the land, that means that the authorities are supporting the course so that the holdings, the agrarian holdings, the giants have bought this land to form the new oligarchy-pheodals, so that these oligarches are actually from the environment that is now around the President, near the power. And we are definitely against that approach. People who are simple loses, our farmers who have not yet fallen from their knees, and cannot form at such an approach. So we definitely don't want this to be done in this scenario. We believe that the civilized market and the civilized form of the market are only possible with these five steps that the political party "Will" is offering. Dear Ukrainians, on the eve of the greatest Christian holiday of Easter, I want to wish you peace over our heads so that we have a peaceful sky so that you can have good health so that our government will have a chat in its head and have the ability not to lose Ukraine but to realize Ukraine. And God’s blessing on you. Happy birthday to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u96	Thank you for your warm wishes. Please, Borislav Bereza, who. Oh, I'm sorry. No, no, no, Borislav Bereza. He expects a traditional photograph of himself, but before that, he has the right to speak. Please, Mr. Bereza. Don't take the rostrum, don't take the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you as the head of the Party of Determined Citizens. One of the determined citizens who is a member of the party from the very beginning is Paul Dolinsky. Former fighter of the Ukrainian Volunteer Army, defender of the airport of Donetsk, cyborg, the man who received 12 injuries in Donetsk. This person still doesn't have an UBD, a participant in combat. This man must still prove that he had fought! Why did this happen? Because this hall is willing to vote for anything, for the gas market, for the land market, for the simplification of the customs congregations, for anything else. But this room does not remember that it was once the Ukrainian volunteers who, in the fourteenth year, went to defend Ukraine, to allow the room to now vote for the land market, for the electricity market, for the gas market, for anything. But they expect, no, not words of gratitude. They want a thank you that will be established by law. Since the 14th year, the Committees of the Supreme Council have passed a bill that I, along with Dmitr Jaros, passed on to provide the aid and to secure it for the volunteers who were the first to defend Ukraine. I want to address all of you. We are all here solely because they then protected Ukraine from the Russian invasion! But we have to protect them now. Now my team of lawyers is going to court to prove through court that the 12 holes in Paul's body are really bullet holes that he got as a wound at Donetsk Airport! Isn't that a disgrace?Oh, my God! It's a disgrace to me. I hope the heads of factions, I address all the heads of factions that are now in the hall, which will be in the hall, I want to address you. Ask that question. I'll thank you. All Ukrainian patriots will thank you, and you will be able to repay the boys who were the first to defend the country. Because to say the words "Glory to Ukraine!" It is very easy for many here to remember that it is our duty to glorify heroes. So hopefully we'll do it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u98	Thank you. Please, now, Mr. Clumsy, you have the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u99	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians. Gennady Krivoshia, faction of the People's Front. Dear colleagues, a week ago, I raised the question that Ukraine is a member of the International Committee on ISO, where it has been presided over at the 218th Committee of Wood Affairs for more than 10 years. I have made appropriate references to the Ministry of Education for Agricultural Affairs and I have received the appropriate answer that this is the competence of the Ministry of Economics and in particular the National Authority of Standardization. In turn, I have asked the Prime Minister, because I consider such measures to be relevant to the international level, such as the development of Ukraine and the forward-looking development of cooperation with the European Union and generally at the world level, I would like to ask the Prime Minister, in fact, to take the appropriate action for personal control, which should be taken in October 2017 with regard to the implementation of the appropriate action. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Ukraine is in the process of actually joining the European Union, and that is why such major and important international events that will take place in Ukraine should be held at an appropriate European level. I would like you to give an appropriate mandate to create an appropriate working group, to include relevant specialists from the national standardisation body, the technical regulation department, the representatives of Minagro and other relevant ministries and me as the head of the industrial policy subcommittee, on technical regulation issues in order for Ukraine to be able to carry out an appropriate action at a rather serious level. I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that there are 63 countries with ISO members, 26 of them active participating countries and 37 observer countries. And notice, Ukraine is one of 26 participants in the system. I would like to draw attention, for example, to what, for example, Germany controls and regulates and presides over more than five hundred committees. an appropriate system. So Ukraine has no right in any way to lose its right, but to continue a fairly fruitful work, and I would like to point out that the secretary and representation of Ukraine is quite active in committee number 218. And our job today is to preserve this potential, to make sure that the standards and standards that are being developed today are being used and applied internationally and globally by Ukrainian experts and professors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u100	Thank you. Now is the word of the deputy of the people, Moses, to whom Mr. Kozachenko gives the right of address. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u101	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people. I would like to draw your attention to the problem that my electorate is facing, namely, the organization of multi-house houses of co-owners who, after the adoption, would seem to be our component of the Supreme Council, the well-known law on property rights in a multi-house building and the decentralization of the transfer of rights to local communities and owners of multi-house houses should be given ownership not only of their own buildings, but also of the land, the instigation territory and the land on which the house is actually located. So for two years from the adoption of this law, which was in May 2015, where clearly in the Transitional Positions there was an appointment by the Cabinet of Ministers to develop a mechanism for the transfer of land under the buildings and land areas of the building, the Cabinet of Ministers today, we've heard about major reforms, that everything in front of them is very good. They cannot even implement two years ago the adopted bill. What is the success of governments when the laws and direct orders of the Prime Minister, the direct commission of the First Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Zubko's mandate as Minister of Regional Development, the assignment of the Minister of Agriculture Policy, the State Fiscal Service, two years go around in the cabinet of Ministers. And this question has not been solved at all until today. Instead of my numerous parliamentary appeals, on the basis of the appeals made by the people of the apartment buildings and their respective organizations, they run everything around and tell, you know, we've analyzed here for two years, and we've finally come to the conclusion that we need to accept the amendments to that law. Well, people good as you run the state and how you talk about the fact that drugs are provided when there are no drugs, you tell about everything else, when the elementary things you say are now again the fault of the Supreme Council. So I ask you to consider my speech as an official statement to the Prime Minister, to Deputy Prime Minister Zubka, to the Minister of Agrarian Politics and to the Head of the State Fiscal Service so that they can finally understand the rights given by the Supreme Council by adopting the relevant law. Well, at last. Considering that we have festivals, I would like not only to welcome my constituents but all the Ukrainian people to our holiday with Easter. Wish to all God’s favor upon which Oranta is the patron of Ukraine, God’s Mother, to desire wisdom and confidence in the future. I'm sure Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u102	Thank you. Now, please, National Deputy Ivan Rybak. Your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u103	Madam Chairman, distinguished fellow national MPs, distinguished people of Ukraine! First of all, I want to welcome the upcoming Easter. May all of us be at peace in our souls, so that everyone can be sincere, honest, just in regard to people and our state. Today is a day when you do not want to say many bad things about authority in places, power that does not always do what needs to be done. And what I want to say is what we're doing and what we're planning to do. We have recently formed an interfractional merger of Ukraine's Future, absolutely apolitical, which consists of members of various factions and groups in our Parliament, its calling for a clean environment. With regard to what is happening today in the land of solid household wastes in Lviv, recent fires in Zitomirsk force all of us to think about what to do next? Today in Parliament there is a whole package of bills that can solve the garbage problem in our country, 4835, 4836, 4837 and 4838, these bills are complex to solve the garbage problem in Ukraine. These bills provide, first, for the separation of garbage collection, these bills provide for the return of the waste as a substitute, respectively, for the use of waste as an alternative source of electricity. I think we have a month to work in our districts to see the real situation that exists today in territories, in Ukraine with garbage, with solid waste, and make a serious decision for ourselves. Come here a month later to Parliament and support really, really necessary for the state, the bills. I would like once again to welcome everyone with festivals, to wish peace, harmony, inspiration and work for Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u104	And thank you. Please, the People's Deputy of the Aresonks, your word, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u105	Vladimir Aresonkov, 64th constituency of Žitomirščina. Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues, of course, greeting everyone with Easter holidays, wishing peace, good and happiness, I would like to remind you that on April 26 we will mention a terrible date in the history of our state -- the day of the Chernobyl nuclear accident, when the vast territories of our nation were affected not only when millions of citizens, including Ukraine, were affected. And it is good that the State today owes this category to its fellow countrymen. It's good that it's like active legislation. And I want to remind you that for days, you and I have voted for a few bills that should address the issue of increasing social support for black people. Unfortunately, only one of these laws was fully enacted, the other on child recovery -- only in the first reading. But are these really the laws that the Chernobyls were waiting for? I mean, there are more than ten bills on the Supreme Council today. They are extremely deep and important in place. In this room are present, including the authors of these bills, and there is also an increase in pension insurance, primarily the liquidators of the accident at CHAES, those who participated directly in the carnage of the fire. Today, we are talking about serious support for the treatment, recovery, and health of those who have health or the devastating consequences of an accident associated with the strengthening of this social welfare function. For days we, members of the Association of National Black People’s Deputies, were at the National Center for Radiation Medicine. It's a science and medicine facility at the Academy of Medical Sciences. But we need to see what a very difficult situation this institution is in today, and it needs both financial support and attention from the state. I would like to remind you that until now, there has not been an approved state strategy to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. The concept is developed, it's in the Ukrainian Presidential Administration. We discussed with the public early this year the basic theoretical principles of this concept and found that they were not enough. There are extremely weak positions regarding the social protection of citizens, and there is virtually no attention to health issues. So today I call on all of my colleagues, especially my professional committee, to step up and, at the beginning of work in May, to put forward comprehensively a number of important drafts on Chernobyl for approval. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u106	Thank you. Please, now, the National Deputy Vlasenko, to whom his colleague, Mr. Ryabchin, conveys the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u107	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. Dear colleagues, I would like to sum up the work of the Supreme Council this week, to say that Parliament is being accused that Tuesday was an unproductive day, because all day long the only bill that was eventually rejected. But I would like to point out that this was probably the first example of a single bill for all of this convening, which was considered in a procedure, well, at least externally similar to the procedure of second reading, which is provided for in the Rules. And it was because of these procedures that it became absolutely clear that it was not a law on how to restore confidence in the Constitutional Court, it was absolutely not a bill on how to make the Constitutional Court closer to the people, and it was a bill on the salaries of judges of the Constitutional Court that amounted to 200-300 thousand dollars, on payments to judges of the Constitutional Court, on cars that served the judges of the Constitutional Court, on the free service apartments that they were to receive, that is, the law was about this. And that's why the Supreme Council didn't find votes to support this bill. And then I think Tuesday was absolutely productive and quality. On Thursday, by absolutely breaking the Rules, the Supreme Council passed the Power Market Act, which, you know, in an old joke about guinea pigs that have nothing to do with the sea or the pigs, this law certainly has nothing to do with the market or the electricity for the people. It's absolutely this bill, it's already the law, if it's signed by the President and it's signed by the President, because the President is a party to the energy cost schemes. This law will ensure that people pay more for electricity, increase the need or ensure the need to buy electricity only through intermediaries. That's why the "Fatherland" faction has today registered a draft of a corresponding decision that has recorded a violation during the vote, and hence, as of today, to my deep conviction, the Speaker of the Supreme Council has no right to sign this bill and to pass it on to the President of Ukraine. As for the break that will now take place in the sessional activities of the Supreme Council, in fact conscientious deputies will work, of course, unconscionables will go to rest in Canary, to Maldives, anywhere. The members of the Fatherland faction will not only work on the committees and meet with the voters, as provided for in the calendar plan, but we will help numerous initiative groups to hold a referendum on the extension of the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. I want to remind you that we have already applied to the Central Electoral Commission, and on April 19th, at the first hour of the day, there will be a meeting of the initiative group on the organization of the All-Ukrainian referendum, which, to our conviction, must establish the Ukrainian citizens' will under ban, banning the sale of agricultural land and extending its moratorium. So the "Paternity" faction is going to be working on it all this time talking to people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u108	Thank you, Your Honor. And please, at this time, the Silantiev People's Deputies are being invited. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u109	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Lacha. Dear citizens of Ukraine, dear colleagues, my speech will refer to the humanitarian crisis in the state. According to the United Nations, by 2050 25 million people will remain in Ukraine and the reason is the indifference of authority to the most important — to the basics of a healthy way of life for every citizen, to the development of physical culture and sport, both in cities and especially in rural areas, to the indifference to the quality of education and leisure for young people, to modern health care and preventive work. Since January 1, this year, we have been able to cancel taxes on land and real estate for sports infrastructure and children’s sports schools, in particular. Added by me and the Radical Party of Oleg Láška and supported by the Ukrainian Parliament, this is the first push towards a healthy nation. Also this week, a bill of 2223a was voted on as a basis and as a whole on expanding the capacity of district councils, on financing sports and health measures, on building sports facilities, on maintaining sports teams, and on promoting a healthy lifestyle. Voting showed that the idea of a healthy way of life and the health of the nation is consolidate by the entire Parliament. This is the right direction of state policy, the direction that the Radical Party Lacha has repeatedly claimed. Where sports are financed, children’s crime is declining because half of all crimes are committed by teenagers themselves. The Radical Party initiated Bill 5643 on the promotion of sports, medicine, culture, and social infrastructure in rural areas. Such a bill will allow for the preservation and development of the health of the Ukrainian nation in areas where the problem is particularly acute. As you can see, the Radical Party is taking real steps to support sports, physical culture, healthy lifestyles, medicine, education and other segments of social orientation. I would also like to inform everyone that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is planning to assess the demographic development of Ukraine through the census. I think and I'm sure my colleagues will support me. Yes, of course, a census is necessary, but keeping the population census under military conditions in Donbas and the temporary occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is not only pointless, but also wasteful. Effective development requires investing, not in offshore, but in corruption and bureaucracy, but in the health of the Ukrainian nation. Because with this kind of policy, the humanitarian policy of the government, as we're going to have to do now, not a census, but a call. The Radical Party requires government and authority to raise expenditure on sports, education, and medicine, especially in rural areas. There will be a healthy nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, at the request of all the deputies present here, I want to inform you that we are working exactly up to 14 hours on this very important and festive day. And now for the last two performances. This is the National Deputy Mustafa Nayem, to whom Mr. Karpuntsov gives the word, and then the National Deputy Kirsz. And that's where we finish our work. And two minutes later, the chairman has the right to sum it up. Thank you. Please, Mr. Mustafa.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u111	Dear colleagues! I would like to refer to the fact that today and yesterday were the anniversary of the start of an anti-terror operation in the east of our country. The point is that during this time in our country more than 10,000 people were killed on the front, very many civilians. Instead, the paradox is that in many communities in places, in the East, and still in positions, people who were ready to support separatist movements three years ago are still in office. They organized them, they went out to the cities with flags LNR, DNR and the Russian Federation. These people are still in office. Not only did local authorities retain their authority but they still have no problems with the law. So it happened that the law enforcement agencies -- not the S.B.U., not the Ministry of Internal Affairs at the time -- now the National Police, the Attorney General's Office -- don't pay attention to the numerous testimony and video evidence of how these people went out, supporting the separatists, coming out, calling for the disengagement of the country, the integration of part of our territory into the Russian Federation, going out and supporting the Russian occupation. The point is that we've been addressing both the Ukrainian Security Service and the President of Ukraine, and the Ministry, and the Attorney General's Office. We did not get any answers except that there was no evidence. Now I'd like to give you just a few examples. If you turn to the activities of such people as Mayor Valery Gnatenko, Mayor of North London Valentin Kazakov, Mayor of Dobropil Andry Aksionov, Mayor of Rubižne Sergey Hortiv, former Mayors of Lugansk and Mariupol Sergey Kravchenko and Yuri Hotlubei. All these people publicly supported separatist movements. All these people are somehow involved in the formation of separatist political parties and separatist associations in these regions. We are now addressing the President of Ukraine, the Security Service, Mr. Gritsak, Mr. Habakkuk, Mr. Lucenk. Please note this third anniversary. We're going to hand over all the video evidence, we're going to go to these law enforcement agencies to get concrete answers as to why these people are still in office. The questions aren't in the flag they're putting on their buildings right now. The question is, if enemy tanks enter our cities tomorrow, these people will be the first to meet them. And we call on these people to be punished. Because some of them are already sitting at the station. These people are no different than Nelly Steppes, these people are no different from Mr. Hirkin. But they have power. And these regions will be occupied sooner or later as soon as the Russian Federation wishes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u112	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, People's Deputy Kirsch, may I have your word?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, with a coming feast! But right now, I have to touch on a subject that's not exactly a holiday, a retirement theme. Because what's going on with Ukraine's pension system now? Yeah, the pension fund's "swimming" short of funds. They're really missing. But there is still a situation in which pensioners will receive some pensions of 40,000 dollars, 50,000 dollars. We tried to cancel those pensions. But the Constitutional Court has come up with something that is unconstitutional. And then we tried to tax 90 percent of everything that went beyond 10,000 dollars so that 10,000 would get total, and the rest would be 90 percent. And that 90 percent would be enough to feed five or six regular pensioners from each super-retirement. Unfortunately, this was not supported by the Supreme Council. Because there are many members of the Council who have already been able to receive pensions of 40 or 50,000 dollars and who have not wanted to give them up or tax 90 percent. In addition, I must say that there is still a situation in place where oligarchs pay less to the Pension Fund than the bums do. Because the oligarch pays only the first 40,000 dollars a month. So if someone makes a million, they tax 40,000 dollars, and the rest of 960,000 don't tax anything. So it turns out that when an oligarch pays only from a small coin that is small for him, and small entrepreneurs, small businesses have to pay even for damages, because whether he has a profit or he has a loss, how he actually works, what the amount of his income, if any, he has to pay 704 dollars per month. That is, small and medium-sized businesses, small entrepreneurs are forced to pay pension benefits even from damages, while the surplus income of the oligarchs is not taxed at all. I've done this a lot of times, but unfortunately, my speeches don't find a response in most of the Supreme Council, it's a shame, it's a disgrace, so the pension reform has matured and matured, it's impossible to continue this situation when the bogeyman pays more than the oligarch and when someone has a pension of 900 dollars and someone has 50 or 100,000. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, there are two positions. The first position is now, in compliance with the Rules, to close the session. The second position is for our sins to atone for this and listen to the speeches of the deputies. And one minute for our sins, I give my word to Mr. Loz, and at this we will conclude our meeting today, this is a compromising decision of the chairman. Please, two minutes is the maximum compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u115	Andrew Lozovy, Radical Party. The following words I was asked to say in western Ukraine and central Ukraine, east and south, in Ukrainian Mariupoli, and in Ukrainian Siverkodonite, not two or ten. These words are a reference to those who have brought blood, war and chaos to our sacred Ukrainian land, who have destroyed businesses and killed our people who serve this Russian regime here, especially in this Parliament, to those who have not stood up today, when they have honored our fighters, and to the laurels, the pots, and other shoals who sing to those who kill Ukrainians. Those are not my words, written by the young Montenegrin poet Nastya Dmitruk in the early days of the annexation of Crimea. This girl from Knee's is an equal to our independence. And what she wrote, I hope, will be shown by Russian channels, including, and will hear these words. "We'll never be brothers to either Family or Mother. You don't have the spirit to be free, we don't even have to be colluding with you. You put yourself in "older men" -- we'd be younger, not yours. You're so much, alas, impersonal. You're huge, we're big. And you're hugging. You're all in love, you're in love with each other. Will is a word you don't know, you've been chained up since you were a kid. You have "silence is gold" at home, and we have Molotov cocktails, and we have hot blood, so what are you, like, born blind? And we all have eyes that are fearless. Without weapons, we're dangerous. They grew up and became brave with snipers at gunpoint. We were put on our knees, and we got up and we made it right. And the rats hide themselves, pray, and wash themselves with their blood. They're sending you new directions, and we've got a riot here. You have a king, we have a democracy. We will never be brothers."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-14-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, from the bottom of my heart today, let me thank you all for the atmosphere of mutual respect that prevailed in the session hall for the first time this year under the heading "Virgin." And for being able all of you today to hold back your emotions, to treat one another with Christian love and respect, including those terrible days that are going on according to the Orthodox calendar today, and let all of you thank you again for this. And let me remind you that next week the national MPs are working on committees, factions and groups. I'm asking all committees to prepare carefully the bills that we have to consider in May, because the key work on the bills is on the committees. On the week from April 24 to 28, national MPs, whether they are majors or litigators, work with voters. So I encourage all the national deputies to work in Ukraine, in the Ukrainian constituencies, in the territory of the State. Since May 3, on May 12, national deputies have also worked in committees, factions, and groups. And I call for committees, factions and groups to be held at this time. Dear colleagues, allow me to join you in all the words that all those who speak from the high rostrum today have turned to society on these pre - festive days. May the Ukrainian society first of all wish peace and merry holidays, a delicious belt, peace in our hearts! And the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on May 16th at 10 a.m. And this morning's plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed today. Thank you.
