ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the break time is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs, and get ready to sign up for the evening session. Please come into the hall, take your jobs. My colleagues, I want to remind you that we now have a block of economic policy. The first is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Public Procurement, 4738 and 4738-deputy (d), a very important, very progressive law. And we, colleagues, need someone to keep a balance between rematch and progress in the room. And that's why I'm going to ask him to support all the halls. And please, colleagues. Oh, there's Andrew Ivanchuk. That's 50 percent of the success of the evening session. And, I see, everyone's ready for us to make the registration. Yeah? Please, colleagues, come into the hall and prepare for registration. And please register. [[16:05:49]] 354 national deputies registered. And I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And I would like to inform you, colleagues, that a delegation of the Group of Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation of the Georgian Parliament with Ukraine is present at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, headed by George Mossidze. [[Applause]] I would like to welcome our Georgian brothers. [[Applause]] Thank you. In 2008, in this room we did our best to support Georgia during Russian aggression. Today you support Ukraine. We thank you for this and we are confident that we will join the EU together, and NATO is shouldering the burden as brothers. Congratulations! [[Applause]] Colleagues, we are now moving on to the issue of the agenda. And the first is, as I have warned, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act and some other Ukrainian laws on the conduct of monitoring of purchases. And, colleagues, we've wasted a lot of time in the morning, so I'm asking everyone, regardless of factions, to support the proposal for a shorter consideration. Otherwise, we can't even make part of our ambitious plan to do it today. And so I ask you, colleagues, to support the proposal of the draft Public Procurement Act (4738) for a reduced procedure, colleagues, this is an important issue. And I ask everyone to take up jobs and support this proposal in a coherent and responsible manner. Please vote. Please support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Colleagues, please support me, please vote in favour. This is a progressive, right law. Please be supportive. [[16:08:09]] For a hundred and 107. Not everyone took to heart the importance of the bill. Colleagues, this is the right, progressive law. I ask everyone to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please come into the hall, take your jobs. Colleagues, I can see that not all the deputies are here yet. Please take up jobs. Coalition members, take up jobs, please. If we go into full consideration, it's over an hour. That means that those laws that are in the daytime order, we just won't be able to consider them. Ready to vote? So I'm voting on a motion for a brief procedure for draft Laws 4738 and 4738. And please support everyone, colleagues. Please vote carefully, each voice has a weight. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. [[16:10:04]] For 131 We didn't make it. I see they haven't made it. But logic is simple, colleagues. We have the next Law on Protection of Economic Competition, we have the next law on ensuring the principles of procedural justice and improving the efficiency of conduct. These are all progressive, important laws. If we go into full procedure, we just can't get there and close enough to complete that list of laws that are in the order of the day. Colleagues, please take a responsible approach to the vote. I'd like you to invite the deputies to the hall as much as possible and support them. All public experts await the adoption of these laws and stress their importance for the economic development of Ukraine. You are invited by Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk to even vote in favour of the shorter procedure. And I don't understand which call might be more important to the MPs. I ask everyone to concentrate and vote. I bet. Ready. I see the deputies are here. So, colleagues, take up jobs. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal that we review the draft Public Procurement Act (4738) for a reduced procedure. I ask you to vote. And I'm asking you to support everyone. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please vote. Vote. [[16:12:18]] For-160. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andriy Volodymirovich, to report. Andrew Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, there are two bills for your consideration: 4738 and 4738 (worked). At first we considered Bill 4738, but as a result of the discussion, the legislative initiative of its government, the State Audit Service, the Court of Auditors, the Antimonopoly Committee. And we made a decision, we held a lot of round tables, and Bill 4738 was finalized for Parliament's consideration. We've taken into account a lot of suggestions. And this is a balanced decision that is supported by all the government authorities that are taking part in this process. Therefore, the committee at its meeting decided to recommend to Parliament that the draft bill be adopted as a basis for the first reading. He agrees with the Court of Auditors, with the State Audit Service, with the Antimonopal Committee, with the Court of Auditors, with the Ministry of Economics. And now I'd like to briefly tell you what the bill is about. You know we've been running transparent purchases. And this bill, which works on the basis of the ProZorro system, there is no doubt in this room that the state budget will save a very large amount of money. The public procurement process, which was the main corruptive system in our country, was given a new face. And today, ProZorro provides the opportunity to save billions of dollars for the Ukrainian budget in purchases for.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u3	Since Ivanchuk is speaking both from the committee and as the author, I ask him to add two more minutes to the presentation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u4	Thank you. The bill proposes that public procurement be monitored at the level of the law. So today, those hundreds of billions of dollars that we're budgeting for the state economy, the local money, they're all going through the ProZorro system. And so far, there's no legislation at all, even though the Public Procurement Act mentions that this function should be performed by the State Audit Service. But bills, laws, Ukrainian legislation don't settle these issues. We've written and worked together all the very high-quality mechanisms for monitoring government purchases that will not be possible after ProZorro's bidding and prosecutions have taken place, but at the stage of transparent purchases, at the stage of conclusion and execution of contracts, will enable us to improve all of these mechanisms. The State Audit Service will be able to monitor in real time. There will be risk indicators that will reflect, because the human factor cannot provide all of this. We can't get as many people as tens of thousands of real-time purchases. Thus, indicators will be introduced, computers will issue red flags, and at the stage of preparing transparent purchases through the ProZorro system, government authorities will be reflected, and they may be prompted to remove comments. But the auctions don't stop. And it's the basic, honorable national MPs. All the monitoring mechanisms, they don't stop the procurement process, they don't stop the contract process, they don't stop the contract process on these purchases, they just answer one question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u5	Please, 30 seconds, finish, Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u6	But this bill, honourable national MPs, will give us one chance. As a parliament, we will be able to control all public procurement that takes place in the country. The Audit Service will be able to report to us as a controlled body, and we can quote that, I would say so, that's the next step in public procurement of the ProZorro system that we've put in place and that we're all proud of. So I ask you very much to support me in my first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u7	Thank you. I emphasize that Andrew Volodymyrovich acted both as the author and as the chairman of the committee. Thank you very much, Andriy Volodymyrovich, for the fiery performance. And now I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. Please. From the Samohelp faction, please, Jaroslav Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u8	Please, Semenhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u9	Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u10	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, the process of improving public procurement is certainly important. In three years, however, the monitoring procedure was not prescribed. That is, it was brought to the attention of civil servants without any specific legislative requirements. Therefore, it is very important to adopt this law today and especially to provide for: the introduction of an automatic purchasing monitoring system; this will allow the exclusion of the human factor and subjectivity from the process; a comprehensive overview of the reasons for the conduct of purchase monitoring; the mandatory publication of information in the electronic system by ProZorro about the start and completion of such monitoring; the results of such monitoring; the exchange of information between public financial control authorities; and the purchaser at all stages of such monitoring. Next. It is very important to establish a clear distribution of the functions of the Antimonopoly Committee and the Derjaudit Service in the area of public procurement. And the last. Publication of detected breaches in ProZorro electronic purchase system. However, colleagues, I would like to point out that today, when we consider this anti-corruption bill, we have not so far overcome the very illogical situation that has arisen in the direction of State anti-corruption policy, namely, that the House of Auditors has actually failed and the activities of the Court of Auditors as one of the main control bodies have been blocked for an indefinite period to date. So I also think that we should go back to this process as soon as possible and put in, get the House of Accounts to work. We'll vote in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u11	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Soloj Igorovich. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u12	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, is this bill important? To my profound conviction, it is absolutely important because it regulates public procurement, and today this area is essentially spending 600 billion dollars a year. When Parliament passed a revolutionary law a year and a half ago, which ProZorro introduced, we said "a," but we didn't say "b," and today this is the Law on State Procurement Monitoring. Because only when we adopt this law can it be said that the sphere of government procurement and regulation of this sphere is going to the public domain. In short and in one word, what this law is about, I'll give you one particular example. The hospital can buy one drug and then the manufacturer can apply for a tender, or the hospital can form a lot of ten drugs, and thus deprive manufacturers of the opportunity to apply for the hospital. This law makes such things impossible. So if we really want to really complete the reform of the sphere of public procurement, I call on every national MP to support this bill. This is one of the basic and most important laws that regulate public procurement, and it accounts for over 600 billion dollars a year in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u13	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Gusak Volodymyr Georgievic. From the rostrum. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u14	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, dear Head! In Ukraine there is a huge problem with government procurement. Each year, tens or even hundreds of billions of dollars are stolen or simply disappeared. This money would be enough to raise, actually raise pensions for all Ukrainian pensioners, not just parts. Because we're just overwhelmed by calls from citizens who are outraged by the meager increase in pensions they've been given as a result of widespread reform. In recent times, another problem has been added. Many in the executive branch have decided that the best way to fight procurement corruption is to buy nothing. Indeed, there is no procurement -- there is no corruption, but such an approach has just terrible consequences. Because the Ministry of Health does not buy the budgeted drugs, vaccines, serums, and Ukrainians die. And because the Crucifixion can't buy spare parts and fuel in time, trains stop, and the Ukrainian economy loses hundreds of millions and billions of dollars. Dear colleagues, this law, actually gives broad powers and not just by monitoring, but by controlling and checking all purchases, not only public, State Audit Service and these powers, they actually duplicate the authority of other state authorities, there directly duplicating the bill. And we think that in a situation where today's government is doing more pianist work, it's creating another government authority for monitoring and so-called control. Can I have another 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u15	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u16	We believe that in a situation where today’s authorities are more focused on pyari, the creation of another controller has little meaning and will have negative consequences. Ukraine has enough government authorities to keep order in public procurement, but it needs to do more than imitate the fight against corruption, but it has to do real day - to - day work. Our faction will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u17	Thank you. Colleagues, all the factions came out, so who had a wish? Let's do it again. Yes, please, Kugel of Fatherland. And, colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u18	I understand that we're all talking, if we're talking about support in the first reading, about the 4738-d bill, which was worked by the committee. We've heard in every statement that there's an abuse of government procurement, something that doesn't match, Mr. Nephrodov, with all of your speeches that you've said that your ProZorro has already taken everything away and that additional budget should come, well, at least a hundred billion of those money that ProZorro has no opportunity to be stolen. I'd like to sharpen your respect, dear friends, so that they don't translate it into entrepreneurs. If you take the matter of the Ministry of Defence, in any tender, the public official chooses the price in any ministry he buys, one or the other. Don’t translate your responsibility for business, and if you put an exorbitant price on an incendiary basis, take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u19	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u20	And I support the audit, but on second reading, I immediately warn Mr. Ivanchuk that we will make proposals to have a market approach so that there will not be one audience closer to the coalition and that we can actually check prices, monitor the conduct of public purchases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u21	So, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall, take up jobs, and in two minutes there'll be a vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. Now, from the government, turn on Maxim Nephrodova's microphone. And please, everyone, in a minute, there will be a vote to take up jobs. Please, Maxim Nepheodov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, the bill follows a very simple objective. The great advantage of the electronic purchasing system is that it stores terabytes of data that we can analyze and that were previously not in paper tenders. This means that we have information that we can not drive into hand when a person has to look at documents and decide what is good and what is bad, and we can drive them out through a set of automated criteria. Like the antifaith program, for example, it looks for viruses on your computer. This bill, it makes this monitoring mandatory, it's already running in test mode, you can look at it on the site for its results. We want this bill to achieve that every time there is a red flag on any tender, the State Audit Service, the State Authority, not a private body, it's not about any competition, it's about the government authority being obliged to go out and verify. So now we've checked the number of criminal cases that are excited about public procurement, starting with the entry into force of the law, since April 1st last year. There are as many as 108 of them, after which there are three sentences. If we don't increase responsibility and control in this area, no matter how much we don't have beautiful data, no matter how much competition we have, there will still be violators we won't punish. I very much ask you to support this bill, supported by key anti-corruption groups: Transparency International, Anti-Corruption Centre, Reanimation Package Reform. It's very simple in my logic to take the initiative, and I'm very grateful to the Economic Policy Committee, which has come up with this initiative that we've put into practice, and it's already working electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u23	Thank you. Colleagues, the discussion is over, let's move on to making a decision. I urge everyone to take up their jobs and enter the hall. I ask everyone to prepare for the decision, please. I'm going to make a proposal to the committee to take 4738d as a basis, just on the basis of the committee's decision. Ready? So let's move to a decision, and I'm putting to a vote the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act and some other Ukrainian Laws on Purchasing Monitoring, (number 4738) (worked) at the suggestion of a committee on a basis, colleagues, this is an anti-corruption progressive law. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote, please support, please vote. Vote, fellows! [[16:30:03]] For 249 249, yes. Decision taken. I welcome all the authors and those who worked and went to this day after the adoption of this law. Colleagues, I would like to remind you that we have included in the agenda another draft of the Order of Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine (number 3119). It was a request from the Radical Party, but the Hall voted and placed it in order of the day. After lunch, we can move on to its consideration. And I suggest we move on to this ruling, and I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Short-term procedure, please support. [[16:30:53]] For 186 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Pinzenic Pavel Vasilovich. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u24	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Rules at its meeting held on 16 September 2015 considered the application of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Viktorovich, for the suspension of powers as chairman of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking. Grounds: Order of election and resignation of the head of the committee, as defined by the Supreme Council Rules and the Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 7 of the Supreme Council Committee Act, the head of the committee may be revoked at any time by decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on his own motion. Such a statement may be accepted by the appropriate faction whose quota the national MP was elected to office. The statement made by the National Fisherman, Sergija, agrees with the head of the Radical Party’s MP, Oleg Ljashka. The Committee also pointed out that, following the resignation of the Ukrainian national deputy from the post of head of the committee in accordance with part five of article 7 of the Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, he remains a member of that committee unless otherwise decided by the Supreme Council. Taking into account what has been said, the National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee, on the basis of article 15, paragraph 1, of the First Article 15, of the Law on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have submitted to Parliament an appropriate draft decision (registration number 3119), and it is recommended that the Supreme Council decide by way of a vote on the withdrawal of the National Committee of the Fishery from the post of Head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking. Please identify yourself. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u25	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Chubarov. Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich. How about you? Excuse me. He says he gives the word to the Hen. Then there'll be the Radical Party. Please. Please, Chicken. From the ground or from the rostrum? Please turn on the microphone on on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, a moment of your attention. A very important decision is now being considered, which applies primarily to responsibility. Sergey Rybalka served as head of the Committee on Banking and Finance. Sadly, though, in recent times the media have been very resonant about the involvement of its once-run enterprises in the occupation trade, in trade with separatists, and in gangs. Of course, everyone has the right to defend his name, his dignity, his honor, and our colleague Sergio Rybalka. I'm sure he'll defend himself. If he's innocent, he'll prove himself innocent. If he is guilty, he will be called to account. The question is about the Ukrainian Parliament's patriotism test. I am convinced that no one in this room will be involved in the political roofing, the political roof. And I really do now welcome this principled position and the radical faction of Oleg Lachka on objectivity. And I urge no one to hang a label from each other. But we have to politically condemn any cooperation with the aggressor and their herds. Thank you for your attention. I propose to vote in favour of this order.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u27	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u28	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'd like to ask my respectable colleagues from the B.P.P., who just did not do anything stupid. If you're saying don't hang labels, don't hang these labels. We're looking at a very simple question. Sergey Rybalka applied to resign as chairman of the committee. It is his right as a responsible politician and a responsible statesman. Parliament's right to grant this claim. I'm asking you to support Sergio's claim and satisfy her. And all the insinuations you're about to tell, keep it to yourself. And before you go out and tell someone to start looking at yourself in the mirror, and then you'll blame others. A parasite!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u29	The final act, the closing one, is the Fedoruka Mikoli Trochymovich. Gives it to Maxim Burbak. And let's go to the vote. All right, I'll give you a minute. In two minutes, the vote. Please come into the hall. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, I address you. We respect our colleague's decision from the Radical Party faction. Everyone knows that their quota, and they have the right to respond to their colleagues. We've adopted a lot of drafts today, and we're working on a block of economic issues. Mr. Head, I'm also addressing you so that after that we can consider Bill 6538 on the development of aviation industry to support this area. And once again, I would like to assure you that we will support the decisions of our colleagues in the Radical Party of Oleg Laska upon the recall of Mr. Fishing from the head of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u31	Thank you. Igor Šurma. One minute. And let's go to the vote. Everyone, please come into the hall, take your jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u32	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I now appeal to those who today hesitate to make decisions. Look what happened. Two years ago, the Opposition Block demanded that you adopt the Opposition Act to consolidate the rights and duties of coalition and opposition. This law was destroyed by those in the coalition. Today, without being a fan of the Radical Party, I will tell you that I will acknowledge the courageous step of writing a statement and their leader's position. But I'm proposing to all coalition representatives who are currently holding appropriate positions on the committees, getting money, writing a statement, and refusing if you're in opposition to the coalition. [[Applause]] You sell for miserable tens of bracelets to serve as committee deputies. And then you go and you say, "We're the opposition." Shame on you. Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. We still have a lot of questions ahead of us. I'm asking you to take up your jobs and get ready. I'm voting on a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council Order on the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So 3119. Order 3119. And I'm putting her to a vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Decree 3119, in general. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[16:39:25]] For 255 It's been decided. Decision taken. Colleagues, we have the next law. There's a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition. But before we agreed to lunch, I'd like to put again on the vote and the proposal, first of all, to call off the draft Anti-Corruption Courts Act. They began to disperse before lunch. I'm going to put her vote again, and I'm going to ask everyone to back her up. And secondly, Maxim Burbak's proposal, on transposing a law in three, is 6538, so that we can look at it more quickly. So I'm going to make Burbak's proposal first, and then I'm going to make my motion to withdraw from the agenda of the 6011 bill. And then we'll go to the next law. It's one minute, it's short. So I'm the first to put to the vote the proposal of Maxim Burbak to move the draft of Law 6538 on support for the aviation sector, which is a matter of a few questions, faster to be considered now. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, please support. Otherwise we won't get to him. Because it's been a long day. Please vote. Please support Burbak's offer. Please vote in favour of aircraft construction. [[16:40:55]] For-182 The decision is not made. And I'll put the next one to the vote. Fellows, I would like to remind you, the Venice Commission, to which we have referred anti-corruption bills, has asked the Supreme Council of Ukraine to recall them. The drafters of the bill all personally signed petitioned the Head of the Council to withdraw their bill. The President of Ukraine, in turn, made a public appeal yesterday to the Supreme Council asking to withdraw the bill from the agenda of the session. This is the common position of the Venice Commission, the President of Ukraine, of all the authors of the bill. We just have to support her. And I'm sure we'll now support her by voting. So I'm voting on the motion to withdraw the draft Anti-Corruption Court Act (6011) from the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote! Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:42:13]] For-161 Decision taken. My colleagues, I think there's been some kind of misunderstanding. Colleagues, we can't look at him right now. My colleagues, I'm going to ask you one more time. I'll have the necessary consultations with the factions' heads. We are now moving on to the next issue of the agenda, 4287, on the introduction of the draft Act amending the Law on Protection of Economic Competition (No. 4287). This is the economic block that we've been looking at. And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. [[16:43:15]] For-151 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andriy Volodymirovich, to report. Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u34	Please, Your Honor, head of the committee, may I have your word? 4287 – protection of economic competition.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u35	Madam Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Bill 4287 is brought to your attention. The entire room voted in favour of sanctions against companies representing the aggressor country or working against Ukraine and the Ukrainian economy. Unfortunately, in the legislation, we didn't settle the issue of non-absorbing or compounding or selling parts of companies that are in the Sanctions Act that are included on the sanctions list by the National Security and Defence Council. In the cabinet’s bed is the head of the Antimonopoly Committee. And I want to tell you that the Antimonopoly Committee still doesn't consider statements by companies that are on the sanctions list. But at the legislative level, this issue is not settled. I registered the bill in March 16th. Sadly, however, the Parliament did not consider it. And today is the time. We have to give a clear answer. We have to give a clear answer: companies that are included in the sanctions imposed by the National Security and Defence Council Sanctions Act have no right to be absorbed, merged, concentrated or anything like that. And we have to give the Antimonopoly Committee the right to prescribe this rule at the level of law so that they refuse to consider applications, refuse decisions, give no consent to alienation and that the Sanctions Act and the Antimonopoly Committee can implement it in accordance with these changes. They're very short. The Economic Policy Committee is asking Parliament to adopt the bill as a whole. I thank all the deputies very much for the previous vote on State procurement monitoring. And so please, we all have to finish up, finish up, because today the Antimonopoly Committee is doing it, but only for patriotic reasons. He doesn't consider it, he doesn't give permission to all companies that are included in the sanctions list. And today, as a parliament in law, we have to make these changes, and we need it to do so further, legally, from tomorrow. I very much ask all in attendance to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u36	Thank you, Your Honor. We don't have co-reporters under this bill, so I'm now asking to sign up for the 4287 bill. On the other hand, I would like to refer to the MPs who are present in the government's bed, and point out that the session hall is very respectful of the position of support for both the medical sector as a whole and individual medical institutions, and at the same time the session hall is asking you to respect and the historic premises of the House of Parliament. In no European Parliament can you hang walls or stands with private posters, it can be done in your own office. So please, we agreed that we would stop hanging with our own private posters of the session hall, the beds, the balcony, please take it off and take it to your office. Or I'm going officially to the Parliamentary Secretariat: after the end of my working day, you can take the poster to a storage facility -- I guarantee you the preservation of this beautiful document -- to the office of the first vice-speaker, and then I'll give the poster owners this poster. Thank you very much, and I hope that we will be European norms, respect for the room where we are temporary, and it is eternal, to demonstrate in this session room. Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Lapin. It's a respectable faction of the People's Front. They'll come out of the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u37	Dear colleagues. I propose to support this bill, and I would like to say to the distinguished representatives of the Antimonopoly Committee. We give you so many rights to use them rather than to abuse them. Thank you. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u38	Now the next one we have is from the Self-Help faction. Please, Mr. Costenko, a national MP. You'll be out of town, won't you? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u39	Please give Roman Semensi a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u40	I didn't hear. Roman Semenha, please. They'll come out of the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u41	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, Madam Chairman. Indeed, in times of war, we cannot allow the legalization of control over domestic productive assets, particularly those of strategic importance both to the economy and to the security and to the State of the side of persons to whom sanctions have been applied in relation to their direct or indirect involvement in the arms of aggression against Ukraine. But Self-Help is only ready to support the first reading, because the legislative initiative has a number of shortcomings. In particular, first. The bill does not provide for amendments to the Ukrainian Sanctions Act. Instead, it is considered appropriate to introduce the law as a separate type of sanctions banning the concentration of farming subjects in connection with their actions that create realities or potential threats to Ukraine’s national interests. The other one. The bill does not provide for amendments to article 28 of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition, and this gap can later be used as a legal loophole. After all, according to the 28th article, if during the established period the review has claimed permission to concentrate, the Antimonopoly Committee authorities have not begun to consider the concentration case, the decision to grant a concentration permit is considered to be acceptable. And the last. The bill does not provide for the ability of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee to influence the economic concentration of economic operators subject to sanctions. In particular, the bill does not provide for the granting to the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine the right to review their decision to grant a concentration permit adopted since 2014, with the possibility of cancelling those decisions where the concentration permit was granted to the person to whom the sanctions were subsequently applied. We are sure to consider this in preparation for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u42	Thank you for your position and clarification. Please, from Fatherland, Mrs. Kugel, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, I ask the authors for your attention. In fact, I support the previous self-help speaker, Mr. Semimenich, in that there are no amendments to the Ukrainian Sanctions Act, which would be recognized as one of the kinds of restrictive measures, a ban on the granting by the Antimonopoly Committee of permission to act, or the concentration of the operators on which sanctions are imposed. And that's why there's a proposal, you could vote in general, on one condition, if, on an editorial basis, now, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, Ivanchuk will say that in "The End of Position" they will make and make changes to the Ukrainian Sanctions Act. Then it would be smart, we would give help, a normal tool to the Antimonopoly Committee, and we wouldn't delay adopting the bill. Thank you. If not, only in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u44	Thank you for your position, we see that several factions take the same position, and here I ask the committee to hear it. And now from Peter Dustenka's Block, Kishkar Pavlov. And then, from the non-fractional, Lechchenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u45	A bird, please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u46	Please, Mrs. Bird, Victoria will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am also a co-author of this bill, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is extremely simple. This bill obliges the Antimonopoly Committee not to allow or deal with matters where one of the participants in the concentration is the subject to whom special economic and other restrictive measures have been applied, sanctions under the Sanctions Act. In fact, this bill has been in the Supreme Council for an extremely long time and is not being considered in the session hall, and in the meantime the Antimonopoly Committee has no capacity and no authority to refuse such concentrations. We're here quite often, in the session room, talking about the aggressor country, about the fact that an aggressor country cannot be allowed to scale up its business in Ukraine. But they did not actually take any action to give these powers to the antitrust committee and give it the opportunity to refuse at appropriate concentrations. I agree with previous speakers that, in order to effectively apply this procedure, appropriate changes to the End Positions Act should be made. So I propose now, under the transcript, to vote on the basis and in general, and under the transcript, to propose changes to the Final Position of the Act so that we can see this through the technical and legal drafting of the law. However, in order not to delay the procedure and to allow the bill to enter into force after a certain period of time, the committee was authorized to refuse at appropriate concentrations when it applied to the subject for whom special sanctions had been applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u48	Thank you for your clarification. The last to speak from the non-fractional Mr. Levchenko. Mr. Levchenko, Yuri Levchenko, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u49	Levchenko "Freedom", 223 District of Kiev. It's the right bill, but there's one, two, I'm sorry, major mistakes. The first mistake is to prescribe a mechanism for cases where such permits have already been granted in order to be viewed on the basis that this is an object from the aggressor State. The second question is that it is worth excluding from the draft amendments to article 32 of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition. Because the proposed changes to articles 26, 27 of the Law already cover all current and future concentration claims. Thus, they will be able to keep the subjects under concentration sanctions. But closing cases on the grounds that the subject is subject to sanctions may hinder the AMCA’s verification of concentrations that are already agreed upon by the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee. Thus, already existing concentrations of subsanctioned firms are granted procedural exemption from checks.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u50	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u51	That is, as the amendments to article 32 of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition have now been made, this allows already existing concentrations of subsanctioned firms to move away, to avoid procedural, from AMCA checks. So I ask that you remove the changes that are prescribed in article 32. If there is no desire to clean, then I demand a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u52	Thank you. Colleagues gave warnings and questions. And as I understand it, the head of the committee now wants to make a compromise proposal that will unite the entire hall regardless of factions and political views. But after his speech, we will immediately move on to making a decision. So I'm asking the factions to invite the deputies to the hall, please report that the discussion is over and we're moving on to the decision-making process. And I ask everyone to take up their jobs. Now, Andrew Volodymyrovich, offer, a united, consensus proposal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u53	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I have just consulted with the members of the Economic Policy Committee, also with the head of the Antimonopoly Committee, and I personally consider all the remarks, and Mrs. Kugel, representative of Self-Help, representative of Freedom, the non-fractional MP of Ptashnik, is absolutely correct. And now, under the transcript, Mr. Head, I would like to propose to vote in favour of this Bill 4287 in general, taking into account, and giving us a mandate in technical law, to take into account the proposals of the People's MP Levchenk, the representative of the Fatherland, the representative of Self-Help, the People's Chamber of Birds, concerning the first is the Law on Sanctions in the Final Positions, so that we can amend this law. Second question, rework. take into account the technical legal observations made by self-help representatives under article 28 of the Law on Protection of Economic Competition. It's also a common position between Freedoms and Self-Help, and we support it, to give the Antimonopoly Committee of Retrospectives the right. What does that mean? When the Antimonopoly Committee issued a permit to concentrate or merge, and then this company was sanctioned, the Antimonopoly Committee should have the right to respond to the fact that the company was sanctioned. Question three. What Mrs. Kugel said. We're in End Positions, we're gonna do it. I'd like to ask the authors, who are voting, to join me in writing the final version of this bill under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u54	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u55	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u56	And all together, to be prepared for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I thank everyone very much for the tips, for the help, and for the fact that we are all together. I think that this bill has been strengthened, on the other hand, and has allowed the Antimonopoly Committee to respond to the companies that we include on the sanctions list. I thank you all very much and ask everyone to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u57	Thank you. And, colleagues, it's a little bit of a complex formulation that Andrew Volodymyrovich sounded, but now I'm going to try to formulate it. I'm going to put to the vote with the proposals that Ivanchuk made, but right now I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and ask for jobs. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Yes, in general, with Ivanchuk's proposals. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition on improving the procedures for controlling the concentration of operators, number 4287, with proposals that have been made under the transcript of the stand by Andri Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk, and with technical legal work. With technical legalization on the ground and in general. Please take your seats and vote. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:00:24]] For 219 I see they haven't made it, I see. Please come into the hall. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs, colleagues. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. I'll put it on the way back, but I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and support it. We took into account all the suggestions that were made during the discussion. This gives us the full opportunity to adopt the draft law. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. And I'm asking you to support everyone, this is a compromise proposal that takes into account all the suggestions that there are. Andry Volodymyrovich continues to convince the deputies of the correctness of his position, and he successfully concluded the consultation. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for the draft Law (4287) on the protection of economic competition. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, every voice, every voice, several voices were missing. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[17:02:03]] For 229 We're back. And now I'm putting Ukraine's draft Law on Protection of Economic Competition (4287) on the basis of, and in general, the amendments that Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk made under the transcript. Please, we vote, take up jobs. Take up your jobs, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, carefully, each voice has a weight. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues, please. Please vote. [[17:02:44]] For 228 The law is passed. Colleagues, I've been approached by a faction of Peter Dusty. They said they weren't focused on the previous vote on aviation and they're asking me to re-position the bill for consideration now. This is a draft of the Plane Building Support Act (6538). And I'm putting in the proposal that was made. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no "two minutes," boys. The proposal put forward by the People's Front on the transposition of Bill 6538, which is through several bills, the proposal that we consider it immediately, because we may not reach it. Please identify yourself by voting, and please take your place. Asked me to wait a minute, colleagues. Colleagues! I'm asking you to take up your jobs, colleagues. All right. Andrew Volodymyrovich! I'm asking you to take up your jobs, and I'm asking the deputies to return to their jobs. Dear colleagues, the session of the Supreme Council will not await you indefinitely. Take up jobs. Ivanchuk! Ivanchuk, the jokes are over! Please take the job. And I'm voting for a proposal that we move to a few positions and move on to a bill on aviation support (6538) now. Please vote and please support. He's in the daytime, just through a few bills. The request is to move it faster so that we can look at it now. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote! Please be supportive. Please vote. [[17:05:25]] For 215 Not enough voices. Next question of the agenda. Once again, well, I'll do it again, maybe we didn't. I'll do it again. The suggestion is simple: move 6538, which is in a number of positions, now to be considered. It was a requirement of the People's Front, Maxim Burbak, 6538 that we now put to the vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:06:04]] For 221 Okay, third time, that's it. This is the third time I've asked for a transfer. Anyone who supports it, please vote. I'll take the third time. [[B in m in s a l in]] Move it, move it. I'll bet a third time like all the other bills. There won't be any votes. I won't put any more votes. So once again, put 6538 on the table right now. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:06:40]] For 219 Declination, 219. All right, colleagues. Let's move on to the next question of the agenda. This is still the block of economic politics of Ivanchuk. This is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of economic competition, No. 6723. And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support me. [[17:07:15]] For 171 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andriy Volodymirovich, to report. Andrew Volodymyrovich, your benefit continues. Please come to the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's change the country together. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u58	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I'd just like to comment on the Peter Dusty Block faction. In a previous vote on the Antimonopoly Committee to refuse the companies on the sanctions list, Mr. Tretlyak and I approached the head of the Antimonopoly Committee. And the committee head confirmed that I was right. During this period, the Antimonopoly Committee did not grant any permission to any company under sanctions. Now we have given him the right and the duty to continue this patriotic and pro - Ukrainian activity. You are being reviewed by Bill 6723, which amends the Law on Protection of Economic Competition and the Law on the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. This is a joint bill by the Antimonopoly Committee with the Economic Policy Committee, which is very finely polishing Ukrainian legislation in order to ensure that the Antimonopoly Committee is not able to address spam. Thousands of statements that do not deserve any attention are being violated, and he will receive the right to stop. Similarly, the bill removes separate categories of concerted actions that are not needed. The bill is short, it consists of four parts. And I am very much asking you to support our joint legislative initiative with the Antimonopoly Committee and to vote in favour of the bill in the first reading as a basis. Because there were two factions on the committee of deputies. And they insisted that they wanted to make adjustments. And I'm asking you to support this bill exclusively on the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u59	Thank you for your clarification. I also point out that this is about discussing the bill and voting only in the first reading. Now I'm asking you to sign up for a bill. We don't have a co-conspirator here, respectable colleagues. Therefore, it is only from factions that MPs will be able to join in the discussion of the bill. Please, People's Deputy Kaplin. I've been fighting for a long time, your word. The faction's position now. It's not parties, it's factions. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u60	Sergey Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'd like to take this opportunity and the presence here of a respected and professional committee head, to draw the attention of the public, tens of millions of fellow citizens, of course, of future socialists, to the fact that we took two or three votes ago. That's about changing tenders. It's all right. It's all right. Two thirds of the law is incorrigible. Absolutely progressive European procedures, no comment at all. But there's one nuance. Who will direct the work of the tender committees? And the work of the tender committees will be directed by the Derjaudit Service. I'll remind you of the story of her creation. At first, Mr. Gordijenko, who accused one of the prime ministers of our country, who were the prime ministers of our country, of a multibillion dollars of corruption, was expelled. Then Gordienko won all the courts. I personally put him in the office, and there were about a hundred police officers who wouldn't let him in. He won all the courts, everyone except the courts. Then they reorganized the KRU, which was to reintroduce Gordienka and expose further multibillion - dollar corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u61	Dear colleague, I do have one. Dear colleague, I must remind you that we have now discussed and voted in favour of the Tender Procurement Act, and this is now about another bill. Dear colleague, this is a very important question. I am. Dear colleague, I understand that tomorrow we have the "Virgin" section in Parliament, on Friday, and you will be able to speak on this important topic. Yes, it is. Dear colleague, you will perform. You'll be, you know, tired of the hall, I see they're getting confused right now, yeah, what we're voting about. We are voting not on tender purchases anymore, but on another bill. I'm giving you 15 seconds from the faction to take a position on this bill. And tomorrow, you're going to talk about anything under the heading "Crazy." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u62	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u63	Thank you. Next, Mrs. Romanova. Mrs. Romanova from Self-Help, she passes the word Semenichi. Please, take your seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u64	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, Madam Chairman! Clearly, the development of an economy without competition is impossible. It is competition that provides a healthy market environment and legislative protection of competitive relations that is one of the priorities of the state. The Self-Help faction supports this bill in the first reading, but I want to read a series of comments and wishes that must be taken into account when preparing for the second reading. First. It raises concerns about the extension of the powers of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine regarding the right to carry out checks to establish sufficient grounds for initiating a case if the signs of infringement are contradictory or insufficient. This may result in an unjustified involvement of the Antimonopoly Committee’s organs in the economic activity of the operators. Next. It is also worth discussing the question of increasing wages from applications for permission to concentrate and reconcile operations. In addition, it is possible to apply several times for the number of transactions within one concentration. The European Commission’s position on merger provides that two or more transactions that have taken place over two years between the same operators should be seen as one concentration. In preparation for second reading, it would also be appropriate to consider the possibility of finally introducing a procedure in the 21st century for filing an application for an infringement of antitrust legislation in electronic form that would modernize the legislation and strengthen business. Please support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u65	Thank you. They're convinced that the committee will take your suggestions into account for the second reading, and now it's only about the first reading. The last speaker is Mrs. Kugel from Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u66	Thank you. We consider the bill to be very important, 6723, because it simplifies, in accordance with EU rules, the procedure for granting permits for vertical concerted action, the facilitation of allowing concentration, the order of commencement and the closure of cases without taking a decision in substance. There are many suggestions for simplification in handling matters for small and medium-sized enterprises, and the control system is improving. It's a bit of a pain in the ass, but we understand that these are inflationary processes. I support fully the warnings that have been announced from "self-help" to "self-help" article 36, which give grounds, the grounds for the initiation of the case, and there may be an investigation or an investigation. The lawyers had a very serious discussion on the matter. I think on the second reading we should write it out clearly. And I want to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the Antimonopoly Committee and the head of Antimo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u67	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u68	30 seconds. Thank you. At the Motherland address, you've done research on the abuse of human beings when paying for municipal services. Thank you so much for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u69	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. If I understand, everyone supports this bill, it's only accepted as a basis. So I ask everyone to come into the session room, take jobs, and get ready for the vote. Please, the heads of factions and the secretariat of the Supreme Council, please invite the deputies to the Hall, and we will move on to the decision-making process. So there's general support, the general position of Parliament, let's put it to the vote. Please prepare for the vote and take up jobs. Please, I'll wait another 30 seconds to get to the workplace. I am voting on a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on protection of economic competition (No. 6723) on the basis of which, colleagues, the committee has only given its decision as a basis. I ask everyone to support and I ask you to vote (6723) as a basis. On the basis of that, please vote and please support. Together and unanimously, colleagues, we vote. Please be supportive. [[17:17:51]] For 213 I see not all of them have made it. Please come into the hall. Come in, take your jobs, colleagues. Colleagues, I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. I see, I see, I'll wait, I'll wait another 30 seconds. So please, I'm waiting another 30 seconds, come on in, take your jobs. Everybody in, all in place? Dmitri, please, Mr. Dmitri. Slow down, slow down. Ready? Ready. Andrew Volodymyrovich waved his hand. She's in there, she's got it. So I'm proposing to go back to voting for the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's economic competition laws (6723). Please support, please vote, now return, please vote everyone carefully. Vote, colleagues, please support, please vote. [[17:19:28]] For 238. We're back. Now I'm putting the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on protection of economic competition (6723) on the ground. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues, carefully vote, please support the base of 6,723. [[17:20:01]] For 239. Decision taken. Next: Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the principles of procedural justice and improve the effectiveness of conduct in cases of infringement of economic competition legislation (6746). This is the last bill of the progressive economic bloc, and I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, vote. [[17:20:45.]] For 176 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Poet Victoria Yuriyovna. Please, Mr. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed by the bill on ensuring the principles of procedural justice and improving the efficiency of conduct in matters of infringement of economic competition legislation. I want to say that this bill is actually pursuing two goals, on the one hand we want to give the antimonopoly committee effective tools to investigate such dangerous competition violations as cartels and other anticompetitive concerted actions. We want to use tools that are common, widely used in European practice, in the European Union to make the antitrust committee more effective in investigating and disclosing cartels. On the other hand, this bill pursues the objective of protecting business and protecting all parties involved in investigating violations of economic competition legislation. You know that the antitrust committee now combines control, investigation, and decision - making functions that give rise to the risk of bias and objectivity. To compensate for this situation, we propose the following changes to provide real tools to owners to ensure justice and prevent abuse by the public authority. First of all, we want to introduce fixed deadlines for investigating infringements of economic competition legislation. We want the Antimonopoly Committee not to have these terms for today, but that the committee should act exclusively within the limits that will be provided for by the time-limits legislation. We also foresee the right of those involved to be heard independently of an investigation authorized by hearings. We foresee the right of the disqualification of a national authority whose prejudice has been exposed to the evidence found by persons involved in matters. We fix people's rights to familiarize themselves with the material of the case, to photofixion and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u71	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u72	and other rights, we identify other rights of persons who participate in matters that actually allow the rule of law to be implemented, will bring the standards of a fair process enshrined in article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. But in the relevant decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. I very much ask you to support this bill in the first reading and to provide, and the committee with effective tools for.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u73	Please finish this? Ten seconds, okay, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u74	And provide the committee with effective investigative mechanisms. And on the other hand, protect an honest, transparent and independent business, and protect their rights in infringement cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u75	The co-report invites the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u76	And good evening again, dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies! The Economic Policy Committee is asking Parliament to support Bill 6746 in its first reading on the basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u77	All right, Andrew Volodymyrovich. Andry Volodymyrovich, we will support it, but please know that I ask everyone to prepare for the discussion and please record: two in, two in, two in, against, please. From Peter Poshenko Block to Vadatursky Andry Alexiyovich. Please, Mr. Andrew, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, the BBC faction will support Bill 6746, which provides for the strengthening of safeguards for the protection of the rights of persons in the Antimonopoly Committee. The other one. It is based on the experience of the leading European countries that the verification is based on signs of real violations, not on prevention, as it is now. Third. It will bring Ukrainian legislation closer to European legislation according to the requirements of the Association Agreement. Four. It will create new transparent rules of verification and protection for both internal market players and foreign operators, allowing foreign investment to be involved. We are also depriving the committee of delaying time limits, discharge from responsibility for those who reported their involvement in the cartel. I also want to say that if we want to have a market economy, we need simple competition protection. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u79	From the Radical Party of Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u80	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, who of what, and I'd like to tell you again about our Ukrainian cow. Why isn't our cow competitive and losing competition, economic competition for a foreign cow? Because foreign consumers consume natural dairy products, and our Ukrainian people, instead of natural milk, eat rotting, smelling, innocuous, harmful palm oil. And that's why Ukrainian peasants can't sell milk at a normal price, and that's why the cow-fowl doesn't feed our Ukrainian family. So the Radical Party team is offering very, very simple, but unfortunately, we can't make three years in parliament, an initiative to ban the use of palm oil in dairy products, so that people can buy quality, natural Ukrainian milk products. Why is palm oil used? Because it is cheaper because it is imported from Africa, it is cut and sold to Ukrainians, rather than buying natural Ukrainian milk. Take the sweets, take the butter, take the cream, take the milk -- everywhere, or the chemistry, the dagger, or the palm oil. Who loses? He loses the Ukrainian cow, loses the Ukrainian peasant, loses the Ukrainian state. Because when a bad Ukrainian peasant has a heartache, the code hurts my heart, the whole of Ukraine loses. I want people not to have heartache, I want Ukrainian peasants not to have headaches where they sell their products, and so that that liter of milk sold is nutritious and profitable to keep their cows. So I urge the Ukrainian Parliament to stop robbing peasants and banning palm oil.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u81	We thought today was a day without a cow, but, thank God, everything was fine -- we remembered Ukrainian cow. Now. Not a day without a Ukrainian cow. Please, now, Mrs. Kugel of the Fatherland to discuss a bill that does not concern cows is another bill. Oh, Mrs. Schrum, please. Mrs. Alona, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u82	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, the Anti-Monopoly Committee of Ukraine, is the body that could substantially change our economic landscape in a state that should monitor compliance with economic competition legislation, which should control and regulate prices for goods, tariffs imposed by natural monopolies and generally introduce normal European principles on protection against unfair competition and monopolies, abuse of monopoly. Instead, we have a very large Antimonopoly committee dealing with so - called business pressure. There are not many issues that allow the Antimonopoly Committee to abuse its rights, to actually push on small, medium-sized businesses and entrepreneurs who are trying to raise the economy a little bit. That is why this bill, it foresees a restriction on the possible adversarial of the Antimonopoly Committee, the establishment of clear rules for the actions of the Antimonopoly Committee and the rights and duties of those individuals who are subject to the study of the Antimonopoly Committee. Well, it generally guarantees rights to just a small, medium-sized business from the antimonopoly committee. I also have the honour of being coauthor of this bill. Please support him. The Fatherland faction will, of course, vote in the first reading, and we believe it is very important to ensure the rights of the persons on whom the Antimonopoly Committee has begun, to enable persons to know, at least, in the commission of which they are suspected, to ensure the establishment of clear terms and deadlines for action by the Antimonopoly Committee, to ensure the right of the person involved in the case to know the material and evidence against it, to improve the hearing institution in the case, well, to establish rules for dispute resolution in cartel and other matters. And I very much hope that the Antimonopoly Committee will act more effectively, more transparently and legally, as we propose in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u83	Thank you. Colleagues, the closing statement will be now, so I ask everyone to come into the hall, invite all the deputies into the hall and prepare for the decision. It's a final speech, Pisarenko Valerius, and we're going to the vote. Please, Mr. Valérie.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, we need to support all initiatives that make the market more competitive and less monopolized. And we will support such bills. But we also need to take other points into account. I'm going to say, for example, that we need to feel the pain that people have today, and one of the problems that I'm asking you to pay attention to, including the Antimonopoly Committee, is the question of setting up, forcing counters into homes. Today, people receive payments several times more after they are forced to set up gas counters, and people are unable to set personal counters and, accordingly, to reduce their payments. That is why this question is painful for people today. Please pay attention to him. And the issue of supporting bills that increase competition and reduce the monopoly of individual subjects in the market needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u85	Thank you. So, colleagues, all the speakers supported the bill. And we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking you not to go out. I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I ask the factions to invite all the deputies into the hall. And we're moving on to making a decision. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on ensuring the principles of procedural justice and improving the efficiency of conduct in matters of infringements of legislation, on the protection of economic competition, No. 6746, on the basis of. Please vote. And please support me, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[17:33:49]] For 230 Decision taken, colleagues. And let's move on to the next question of the agenda. One of them was taken off. This is the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Stability of Settlements in the Optova Power Market in Ukraine, No. 6005, the MP. And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please, for the summary procedure, please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[17:34:32]] For 175 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. Ephimov, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u86	Dear Mr. Head, fellow national MPs. To implement Article 2 of the Protocol on Ukraine's accession to the Energy Cooperation Treaty, a process of liberalisation and the creation of an efficient, competitive environment in the electricity market has been introduced, taking into account the basic requirements of EU legislation. To this end, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian Electricity Market Act. The law provides for a new electricity market model from 01.07.2019. I would like to present to you draft Ukrainian Law No. 6005-d amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Stability of Settlements in the Optova Power Market of Ukraine as drafted by the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The project is aimed at preventing the deterioration of the financial and economic situation of the State Energy Company through the untimely registration of tax overheads by participants in the Opt Market. The draft law provides preconditions for Ukraine’s commitments to the European Community to implement a new electricity market model. So, colleagues, please support this extremely important bill as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u87	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Oh, I'm sorry, the committee's report is Julian Nina Petrovna. Please. Ah, let's finish the recording. Entry is saved. Let's give you a word, why are you so emotionally involved? Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u88	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The bill proposes to stabilize the accounts to determine the special order of registration of tax consignment notes in the Single Tax Notebook for Taxpayers in the Optego Power Market of Ukraine. Taking into account the fact that, in considering the bill at the committee meeting, the members of the committee supported the whole idea of the bill, made a number of substantive comments, it was suggested that a draft bill should be drafted, taking into account all the comments, and taking into account the requirements of part three of article 110 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to submit a bill to the Supreme Council, which had been elaborated on the committee. The amended bill proposes two rules that will apply to all taxpayers without exception, and this will be very good in general in terms of the administration of VAT. This is to remove the 365-day limit for registration in the Single Register of Tax Letters, Tax Letters, from July 1, 2015 after the introduction of an electronic VAT administration system, by imposing a fine of 50 percent of the fines for violating the registration period of such tax overheads of more than 365 days. The other one. Within 1095 calendar days, grant the right to form a tax credit on tax consignment notes registered in the Single Register of Tax Letters that violate the registration period. Because all these tax notes are provided with money in the electronic administration system. So we don't have to take away the tax credit. And it's about the market. Temporaryly, until 01.07.2018, the electricity producers who are supplying electricity to DP "Energy" and the state as of 01.01.2016 had tax debt with VAT, not applying fines and not counting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u89	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u90	In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend that the bill be adopted on a basis and generally as a law, taking into account the technical amendment for the transcript. In the second paragraph of section 4 of section I of the bill, replace the words and figures of subsection "a" of subsection 121.1 with the words and digits "subparagraph 129.1.3" because in the meantime we have amended article 129 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. Please all support the committee's decision and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u91	Thank you. Colleagues, now, according to the record, I only ask you to be concise. Don't make any noise! Opanasenko Alexander Valeriyovich of Self-Help conveys the word of George. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u92	Comrades, good afternoon. Why has this question arisen and been put on the market today? Because electricity was produced. What was the source of electricity? Coal. Where did the coal come from? From occupied areas. Why did the VAT problem arise? Because of the fact that coal was not supplied legally from occupied areas, Sorry, the tax office did not register. Why was this problem not there by 1 / 07.15? Because there was no system of electronic administration, the entire schematic VAT was calm. Why is this issue decided solely after 01.01.2016? Because from that point on, the VAT premium for coal supplies, i.e. VAT, has ceased to apply. So there's a problem now. If you wanted to do something good, you'd say it's working today, and everyone who had it. Not the 1st of January, 2016. What's a 50 percent fine? The fine of 50 percent means that actually at 8.3 percent, you can legalize a schematic VAT on the supply of coal from occupied areas. That's the whole point of this bill. It has nothing to do with energy security, European charters. It's the only attempt to get a schematic VAT on the supply of coal from occupied areas into the single VAT electronic administration system. Thank you. This law cannot be upheld.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u93	Thank you. From "Peter Prashenko's Block," the word is "Juganin Nina Petrovna." Please. Turn on the Jujanini microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, you just heard some misinformation from the rostrum because we've been taking steps to figure out how the money is going to move and who is going to be able to register tax notes in the Single Register of Tax Letters with an expired period. In order to prevent abuse, we have the proposed rule that the list of electricity producers to which this item will be extended and the list of direct tax overheads collected by such electricity producers and unregistered in a single register is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We've given the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine a clear list of payers for which and where the standard is to be extended. So there's no abuse here, no mines, no coal you've just heard about, no matter what.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u95	Thank you. From Rebirth Party Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Valérie.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, we need to think about people in the end when we make this kind of decision. That's what I'm talking about. Indeed, there is a question of debt, there is a question of the development of the electricity market. At the end of the month, people want to see a result that will be reflected in their comforts, where there will be less money, where people can feel normal when they have payment and electricity bills at the end of the month. For the last time at the citizen's reception I spent in Kharkiv, I want to say that people are getting paid all the time and they're showing how monthly electricity prices are rising, gas prices, water prices. And we need to do something about it, we need to show that our decisions that we're adopting here are leading to a normalization of people's lives, because if there are misunderstandings and decisions that don't lead to improvements in people's lives, of course Parliament will not use any respect. I would also like to propose to the heads of factions and Parliament's leadership next plenary week to make the day when we will consider the very bills that will ensure a better, clearer view of our tariff. And maybe this is going to be the electricity bill, the green electricity bill, the gas and the energy bill that will allow tariffs to go down -- this is a very important issue today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u97	Thank you. And, colleagues, there's going to be a closing statement now, after he's voted, so I'm asking. Okay, I'll give you a minute, yeah. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, please ask the factions' heads to invite us into the hall, we'll move on in two minutes to making a decision. Longenkov Alexander Valeriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I would like to dispel some of the insinuation myths that have been said by previous reporters regarding trade in uncontrollable areas. This bill aims to avoid gaps that exist in the VAT electronic administration system, particularly in the Institute for the Stopping of Tax Letters and Adjustments. It's not about coal mines, it's about power generators and DPA Energy. We have the characteristics of the electricity function, which is governed by the Ukrainian Power Market Act. All energy-generating companies, whether they're state companies or private companies, are obliged to supply the electricity produced by DPE Energy, it's a monopoly, it's a buyer, that's what the law sounds like. When they supply the specified electricity properly, they form tax liabilities, they have to write the corresponding tax notes, but no living expenses come, there is a debt that needs to be covered, and electricity has already been used. Yes, sorry, if you've put in place such a mechanism to sell electricity through the power grid of the power plant, you can't do that with extreme power generators. Thus, of course, the system of electronic administration of VAT did not take into account the features of the market. Yes, they are these features, so they're asking by hand to solve the problem, but the problem is the need to solve it, because it's the debt of the state to energy-efficient organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u99	Thank you, colleagues. Last minute. Kugel, please turn on the microphone. And please, everyone, come into the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u100	Dear colleagues, very briefly, yesterday I personally invited some representatives, such as the Starobeshewski, the Slovenian TES, and we discussed the reason for the situation. Personally, 2015, for four months when they were supplying electricity, it wasn't our territory, it wasn't ours, it wasn't ours, it wasn't electricity. But the cash method didn't work, they immediately became VAT payers and they were accounted for, and they grew debt. Now that regulation 263 is in force, not only in them, but in all others who are supplying electricity and controlled territory today, there is a debt in the controlled area of 720 million dollars. But they can't put the energy in the tax box and there's an abnormal economic situation. So I'm delivering the product, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u101	Ten seconds, please. Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u102	I can't put out a tax slip, I've turned to Minfin, here's their conclusion, adopting the proposed bill of law will ensure the solution of the problem, the accumulation of taxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u103	I'm sorry, Mrs. Alexander, time's up. We're running out of time. We're just not gonna make another bill. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to stabilize the calculations on Ukraine's wholesale electricity market (6505) (worked) as amended by the head of the Southern Committee, Nina Petrovna, at the suggestion of a committee on the basis and in general. Please vote, please support. It's a sophisticated law for all. Please vote, please support. [[17:49:01]] For 239. Decision taken. Colleagues, and the next draft of the law that we finally came to, which the People's Front insisted on. This is a draft law amending Chapter II of the Final Position of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Customs Code on the Development of Aircraft Industry, Number 6538. And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote on the simplified procedure. [[17:49:42]] For 172 Decision taken. And I'd like to invite you to the report of National Deputy Corchik Vitali Andriyovich. I'm just asking everyone to be as concise as possible. It's very thin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u104	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Your consideration is proposed by the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Final Position of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on the Development of Aircraft Construction Industry on the support of the aviation sector, Number 6538. The purpose of the bill is to enable the gradual transition of Ukrainian airlines from foreign aircraft to domestic aircraft, which will have a positive impact on the country’s economic development. I must inform you that on December 20, 2016, the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Code and the Ukrainian Law on the Development of Aircraft Building Industry on the Support of Aircraft Buildings, number 1796/8, pursuant to section I, paragraph 1, of which, as of January 1, 2018, tax benefits on the payment of customs payments on temporary importation into the customs territory of Ukraine under contracts for the operational lysis of foreign aircraft have become effective. In this connection, Ukrainian airlines, unlike foreigners who do not comply with this restriction from 1 January 2018, will be forced to pay the rate of duty, the value added tax of 20 percent of the cost of an aircraft under operating lease contracts, when importing such aircraft as Embraer E-145, 170, 190, and the ATR 24/74 Bombardier Q400 to Ukraine. The law proposes to amend Chapter II of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Code and the Ukrainian Law on the Development of Aircraft Construction Industry to continue until 1 January 2023. On the basis of the above, given the importance of the bill, I propose that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u105	Julian Nina Petrovna is invited to the report. But once again, please, as concise as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, just as we considered the bill in the working group, we received a letter from DP Antonov asking us to shorten the three-year extension period, not by 5. So in the committee's consideration of Bill 6538, we recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept as a basis and generally as a law, providing for the text to replace the figures and words "January 1, 2023" with the words "January 1, 2021." The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport also supports the draft legislation. Please support this bill on the basis and in general, taking into account what I just read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u107	Thank you. Please, two for, two for. You may not be speaking. But everyone has the right to speak. Two in, two in. Please. Kostenko ("self - help") Pavel Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u108	Tani Ostrikovi, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u109	Ostrikova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, first of all, this bill, its name does not match its substance. It has nothing to do with supporting or developing the production of airplanes in Ukraine. That's the first one. It's different. Now I want to read a letter from the Antonov DP that came to us on the committee. "The stated statement in the Explanatory Note on the inability of Ukrainian aircraft companies to produce sufficient aircraft does not correspond to reality, because Antonov is capable of producing 12 aircraft per year for today, and if the technological restocking of the production base is modernized, up to 24 aircraft per year." This is the first position. Second position. Antonov writes that "the negation of unequal discriminatory approaches in taxation of import and acquisition of domestic aircraft creates preconditions for the unwillingness of Ukrainian air carriers to purchase domestic aircraft." Therefore, if we are a national manufacturer, we should take care of the national manufacturer rather than talk about supporting the aviation industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u111	Thank you. From the Rebirth Party, Geller Evgeny Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u112	Honorable Speaker and Honorable Colleagues! I want to tell you that while Antonov is building, our passengers need to fly. So this is the first step, this is just the first step, and it actually takes a whole week to dedicate our industry to make it develop. And I ask the MPs to support this bill in order to make the passengers feel comfortable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u113	Thank you. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, "The Opposition Block." And I call for flexibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u114	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'd like everyone to understand the essence of this bill in general. In order to reduce the cost and cost of air travel for Ukrainian citizens, this bill needs to be adopted. Including the faction of the political party "The Opposition Block" has always supported and will support our own producer. We are voting in favour of this bill. And I want us all to fly safely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u115	Please. But, colleagues, in a minute, please, in a minute. One minute from the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko. And a minute from Front, Burbuck. There'll be a vote in two minutes. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u116	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. One of my colleagues just said that while Antonov is building the Ukrainians, they need to fly comfortably. I'll rephrase you. If Antonov doesn't build the Ukrainians on anything. If we want to be a modern, powerful, economically developed country, we need to primarily support the national manufacturer in order to make the best Ukrainian aircraft, the production of Antons in Ukraine on internal and international lines. If we're opening up an internal market for imported sludge, for electricity, for a plane bps, for everything else, we'll never have our own manufacturer. This means that our Ukrainians will always be poor because they will not be able to work and earn. That's why the Radical Party team is defending national production. And to make the planes cheaper, give the credits available, give the tax terms available, and you'll have a quality cheap Ukrainian plane, not an imported b/s. Hail Antonov and our national producer!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u117	And the closing act, from the People's Front, Maxim Burbak. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall. Please, one minute as we agreed, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u118	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will support this bill. Because we also care about the cost of our tickets. So our regional airports can be rebuilt. So that our citizens can fly comfortably and comfortably among the district centers. But I wanted to point out the support of our aircraft now. Mrs. Ostrikova only read the first part of the document. It's the Anton Corporation who sent it to the committee. But there's a second part where it's written, it's estimated, that the necessary certificates will be received no later than three years later. Anton Corporation! So for these three years, we have to provide our passengers with cheap tickets, and we have to restore Antonov in parallel, and we have to provide loans so that they can build them. And I'm sure our companies will only take native planes to re-establish regional flights. So please don't manipulate me. And we vote in favour of our passengers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u119	Thank you. Replica, Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u120	Short, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u121	Wait a minute. By the rules, I have a minute. Dear colleagues! Since my last name has been spoken, I have the right to a replica. I want to tell everyone who's been speaking, that in order for Ukrainians to use cheap airline services, the Antimonopoly Committee has to work, and there has to be no monopolies in the airline market. There must also be a way in, and there must be a clear and clear procedure for removing them. Not turn the arrival of foreign airlines into television shows. Therefore, antitrust committees and antitrust legislation must work primarily. And that is the guarantee that our passengers will use the available services of airlines. It's not the lobbyism of foreign planes that come in here without customs and without blurry, and without payment of any customs fees at all. So it's for the national manufacturer. We support Anton's KGB and our planes and our construction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u122	Colleagues, he didn't have the word BP, but I can see two hands: the South and the Sold. To whom? Sold. Please, Oksana Prodan, one minute. And that's really the last minute. Then the vote. I continued the session. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u123	Dear colleagues, today we have voted with you on a number of laws relating to the work and activities of the Antimonopoly Committee. In fact, we have to ensure competition in the automotive market. To do that, both Antimonopoly must work, and the Ministry of Transport, and we must ensure production in Ukraine, in order to pay both wages and pensions. But we need to remember to have someone to pay, and we must pay those Ukrainian citizens who are forced and need transportation. This bill allows people to receive services under the conditions that exist today and not to raise prices. We are now considering a solution: Will the prices of the airline be raised for the next three years or not? I'm asking everyone to vote in favour of this bill so that, as long as it works, aircraft manufacturers, our Antonov becomes strong, powerful and allows us to create competition in the airline market. I propose to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m1.u124	Thank you. So finally, let's move on to making a decision, colleagues. And I'm voting on the draft Law on the Development of Planebuilding Industry on support for the aviation sector (No.6538) as proposed by the Committee on the Basis and Overall, taking into account the proposal of the committee that Nina Petrovna Južanina made for the transcript from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[18:01:33]] For-198 198. They were all in favor. I'll be back. Please take up your jobs. I'm asking you to include the factions. "Peter Poshenko" – 79, "The People's Front" – 62, "The Self-Help" – 0, Radical Party – 3, "The Fatherland" – 7, "The Will of the People" – 2. I'll lay the groundwork, colleagues. Let's put it on the ground. Will you support it as a foundation? [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, colleagues, let's join together as a foundation. I ask everyone to unite as a foundation. Please be prepared. It's a compromise offer, I'm asking everyone to support it. Thus, the draft Law on the Development of Aircraft Industry (6538) is based. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Colleagues, let's all unite, this is a compromise offer. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[18:02:42]] For 214 214. Colleagues, I'll put it back together. Come on, fellows, I'll lay the groundwork again. Me, actually. In the performances, everyone was in favor. I can see on the board that there is no support among the factions that have been spoken. My colleagues, once again, I'm going to put the proposal on the ground -- it's a compromise proposal. I'm asking you to come into the hall. Now the return, well, the return, and then the basis. Please unite, colleagues, I ask everyone to vote carefully, each voice has a weight, I ask you to support the return to 6538, voting on the basis. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please support, every vote, please vote back as a basis, and then I'll lay the groundwork. [[18:03:38]] For 196 Colleagues, there are the following suggestions that I'm making. The next thing you know, it's for the committee to work on. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to support the bill, it's not a good sign either. I'm putting the next proposal on the committee for a re-read. I ask you all to unite, and I ask you to support this proposal. Oleg, I'm asking you to support me. So I'm going to put the next proposal in the Rules back on the committee for the first time again. I ask you to support, please vote, colleagues, please unite so that we don't lose the bill, please support me, colleagues, please vote on the committee for the first time again. Please vote. Please support us to end the day with a positive vote. [[18:04:35]] For 212 And the last suggestion that is (don't go out) is to get the subject of the legislative initiative back to work. Colleagues, I make the final suggestion that bill 6538 should be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, let's back up, let's end this day with a positive vote. Please support, vote, please support. [[6:05:12]] For 214 The decision is not made. Colleagues, so we've had a hard day. And I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow I ask everyone to come to the hall at 10 o'clock to continue our work. Thank you, everyone, and good-bye tomorrow.
