ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u1	Good morning! Please enter the hall, take up jobs, and prepare for registration. Everybody in place? Can we register? So, distinguished national MPs, please register. Let's register. [[10:05:52]] 355 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Tetjana Anatolyevna Donec. Welcome to Mrs. Tetian's birthday. Also, colleagues, I would like to inform you that there was an important date between the plenary sessions. On June 30, 2017, 110 years of age since the birth of the legendary soldier, leader of the wartime Ukraine during World War II, chief commander of the UPA, Roman Suhevich. UPA is a real phenomenon of world history. The army, led by Roman Shuhevich, has fought successfully for many years without external support against the two largest empires of the world, both Soviet and Nazi. Among us is General Roman Shuhevich’s son, our colleague, a longtime, unbreakable political prisoner, and a fighter for Ukraine’s independence, Yuri Suhevich. Let's give him a round of applause. Mr. Yuri! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to extend my congratulations to you from the Secretary-General of the United Nations, with whom I met on Sunday evening, and I have urged the United Nations to deprive Russia of the veto in Radbez. Because the occupier under the UN Charter cannot participate in the adoption of decisions concerning the State he attacked. We need an effective and strong UN. This is a guarantee of world peace and stability. Colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. And I wish you in two words the logic of today. So the first question is a question that we literally didn't reach a few minutes of the previous plenary week. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the activities of higher education institutions in the areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. I hope that this law will unite the hall, and we will vote on it together. Then about ten bills will be included in the agenda of the day session, among them very important issues related to information security, and I hope that we will be able to include all of these issues in the agenda. Then there will be a question of ecology, our commitments are international, and there is a minister present. And then we'll talk about the Constitutional Court Act of Ukraine. But I want to let you know, once I've put the day session in order, I'm going to put a letter to the vote from the two heads of the coalition factions, so that we can move the issue of filing off the national MPs on Thursday, if there's the will of the hall, we'll move on to Thursday, if there's no will, we'll move on to the presentation today. I want everyone to be informed that this proposal will be put to the vote after the agenda. So this is the logic of today, and I suggest you go to work, and I ask my colleagues to take jobs and prepare for the vote. And we're moving on to the first issue of the agenda -- this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law. Sorry, colleagues, half-hours, yes, important half-hours, according to the Rules, we have 30 minutes to speak from the authorized representatives of the MP factions and groups. And I ask you to prepare for the recording and we will have a productive discussion for 30 minutes. I ask all factions to record, I ask that all factions participate in this record, so that they do not have to identify for themselves who is behind whom. So please record a statement from the authorized representatives of the MP factions and groups, please. From the People's Front, the word is given to the head of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u2	Dear friends, good afternoon! I'm not tired of repeating that the People's Front faction is one of the most monolithic disciplined, one of the most reformed, evidenced by dozens of independent research. The People's Front Command has developed and voted hundreds of reform laws that build civil life rules in Ukraine that distance us from the Yanukovich and the Russian world. "The People's Front" is a political power where they value where they respect everyone who walks and walks by, with the goal of protecting and protecting Ukraine's well-being. We've got 81 MPs, we've got playgrounds, we've got participants in combat, we've got Andrew Parobius, Tetjana Crnowil, Eugene Dejday, Yuri Timoshenko, Andry Teteruk, Yuri Berez, and a lot of others, and all of these people know what Maidan was for. One of his demands, which has not yet been met by Ukrainian politicians, is the lifting of parliamentary immunity in its present form. MP immunity should only work as a protection against persecution for political activity, but it must be abolished for those who have committed criminal offences. Ask the boys who were standing against Berkut in Midan, did this mandate ever save them from bullets and grenade fragments? We insist that the integrity of politicians should be carried out in accordance with European practice, that is to say. And while the Supreme Council is to review the application of the Attorney General's Office for the removal of the parliamentary immunity of six national MPs, among them two representatives of the People's Front, Eugene Day and Maxim Polyakov. Yesterday at a faction meeting, a decision was made to allow our faction colleagues to defend their reputation and honour without any immunity. The People's Front is voting for the removal of parliamentary immunity. We believe that this will be honest with the Ukrainian people. But that doesn't mean that we agree with the ridiculous, empty accusations of NAB about Polack and Dedey. Moreover, the faction is convinced that the court cases against them are pure propaganda, obvious, presumptuous and without any judicial perspective. Taking away the parliamentary integrity of our colleagues, we are not going to keep quiet about the fact that by sewing white thread cases against members of our faction, NABU has managed to reach the bottomless point. Yeah, it's not like NABU's law and order, it's like a new criminal brigade from the '90s. First. Exceeding authority, there was an attack on the wife of deputy Polakov, without any warrants, on the mother of an eight - year - old child in the driveway. The other one. The National MP is suspected, despite the fact that neither the demand nor the receipt of the funds are fixed. Third. Dede's deputy has all the evidence he's got about the property he's acquired, it's not taken into account. And, fourth. The selectivity of persecution. A colleague of Dedey’s assets is a depraved delicacy alongside such eurooptiti owners purchased for an unconfirmed 200 - foot [200 m] apartment in the center of Kiev. But this deputy, the mercenary of Grigorishin, is a friend of Sitnik's, so he will continue to go to Parliament by warming the keys to his corrupt apartment in his pocket. We're surprised that there's open shindigs sitting in this room, who serve lionesses and ferns behind the big bush, working with primitive political clowns. Where are the cases against such gunmen? The People's Front has voted in favour of removing the MP's in touch with Dede, Polack, that we will not allow the NAB and SAP to create lawlessness under the cover of the fight against corruption. Can I have 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u3	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u4	And we want to state that we know clearly the nature of the attack on the People's Front is the attempt to delimitise Parliament, to provoke a political crisis that will result in parliamentary and presidential elections for the term. This is the purpose of the attack on the government of Yatsenuk, which is one big campaign that is going to lead to the power of the populists, to bring about anarchy in Ukraine, a total mess. According to our information, the structure of a new political party with a speaking name is being constructed today. It is this political party that must happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u5	30 seconds, please, more.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u6	It is this political party that must become a transport for the parliament of forces for which NABU clears the way, leading a political struggle against provocations, illegal methods of force. We call on Ukrainian citizens not to deceive themselves in order not to lose their state to either the external aggressor or the internal political diversors. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u7	Thank you. From the Rebirth Party, the word is given to Shipk Andry Fedorovich. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u8	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! At the end of this week, our whole country will welcome the people of the brave professions -- the metallurgists and miners who are trying hard to keep our nation's economy, give it stability, move forward, and believe in the future. They want health, well - being, new achievements, and justice. Welcome to the metallurgy and miners with a round of applause. [[Applause]] Thank you. Let's get to our business. A memorandum with a currency. The International Monetary Fund did not sign any of the national MPs, and the bills that we are going to consider today are the basis of a memorandum of understanding with the Monetary Fund, which is the commitment of our nation. But what is this obligation? These are the main ones: the sale of Ukrainian land, the privatisation of enterprises that were not supposed to be privatized, the rise in the retirement age for Ukrainians, but cleverly, not directly – by increasing internships. Good or bad, you and I can decide in this room. But I want to ask who will work after 60 years if the length of life in Ukraine in men is 62 years. Many Ukrainians are no longer retired. In Germany, for example, the average life expectancy is 77 years, so they can retire at 65. "The Rebirth Party" is convinced that pension reform needs to be done, pensions need to be increased, but retirement age can only be raised after the life expectancy of Ukrainians has increased. All feel that life spans depend on health reform. It's not like the doctor tells you, it's only ten percent, 50 percent life expectancy depends on the level and quality of life, the conditions in which people live, the social protection, the wages they get, and we don't even have three billion dollars to pay doctors. After the minimum wage has been raised, they have to be released or moved to a halfway house, and this is because there are 20,000 doctors missing in Ukraine, and no one and no one will be treated soon, and there is not a word in the memorandum or in the bill that we will be considering. What do we need? And we need a recovery, a recovery of the economy, and that's going to give us jobs worth the wage, a normal social protection, which is the standard of living. So I would like to urge all of you, dear colleagues, to approach these reforms, as we say in the people, "we need to measure and cut off seven times" because God forbid we should cut off what we need. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, from the Self-Help faction, National Deputy Yegor Sobolev is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u10	"self-help" asks Parliament to immediately initiate a procedure to remove the inviolability of those deputies who are accused of illegal enrichment or other acts of corruption. Today, hundreds of people are under Parliament. I think a lot of you who went to work on foot saw them. They came completely peaceful, civilized, but with a clear requirement: No one is above the law! Parliament, which itself adopts laws, should be an example of respect for them. If our colleagues have allowed the actions enshrined in the Criminal Code, the Anti-Corruption Bureau, the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, the Attorney General's Office should immediately have all the rights to investigate these acts. Our request: no portability, no delay, no hope that we will not vote and flee to the islands to rest. You don't have to wake up to human anger. I want to say that what's happening right now is very much like the days of Yanukovich. At first, people were indignant, too, in Facebook. Then a number of action began, and then a small stream of discontent grew into a sea of anger. I want to address those deputies who today are under these suspicions. Believe me, for you, it is much safer for you personally to be honest about your punishment, to be freed by a decently cleansed person than to continue clinging to a circular message, in your interests. Because as people who realize that the country is fighting for independence, the country needs inner evil, inner peace, inner peace, self-help, it asks Parliament in dignity, without delay today to make a decision and remove the parliamentary integrity of those colleagues who have acted on the signs of corruption. Nemo est supra leges – nobody is higher than the law. Let's prove this old Roman truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u11	Please, the following is invited to the floor by the national deputy Wilkul, to whom is the word of his colleague. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u12	Dear people of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies! This week's parliamentary work will be the last for this session, coming out of the schedule of his work. I think the best estimate for the first half is what people say on the streets. According to sociology, only one percent of Ukrainians trust this parliament, and in part they trust three percent, or just four percent, of catastrophe. Why? The situation has deteriorated in almost all areas, starting with the economy and ending with a sphere of security. In the economy, production fell by a quarter compared to 2013 even compared to last year, by 1.3 percent and falls further. This is the result of both the Donbas blockade and the absence of any industrial policy. We're practically losing the whole industry: metallurgy, unfortunately, is almost stopped, even agriculture has stopped being a growth point, in two thirds of the decline. There's more debt on the payroll, and it's already exceeded 2 billion dollars. Unemployment rises by 60 percent compared to 2013. Eight million people have already gone to foreign lands. Half the countries are afraid of losing their homes because of their debts to the communists. This is the only thing people can feel about themselves. But is it important to people this week to raise questions at a Parliamentary meeting? Obviously not. Instead of the important issues at the meeting, they are reforming education, which instead of 22 standard subjects introduces 9. Astronomerism, geography, biology, physics and chemistry want to make one of the things that people and nature want to do. IT IS after the fourth class, the ninth and the twelfth. School closings continue. Many experts say that instead of a system of education that was famous for its academicism in its own time, it would actually be the preparation of a cheap labor force. Retirement reform, which aims to raise the pension insurance system so that many people simply do not live to retire. Already in 2018, the average retirement age will rise to 63-65 years, and millions of people who worked without the official right to survive and who do not have 15 years of service, instead of pensions, will receive only meager social assistance. How can they survive? On the background, parliamentary deputies have more vacations than schoolchildren in younger classes. I declare the position of the Opposition Block: the Supreme Council has no right to go on vacation, it is necessary to work and adopt normal laws to support tens of millions of Ukrainians who no longer have anything to live for. Dear people of Ukraine, it cannot be eternal.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u13	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u14	Dear people of Ukraine, there can be no eternal conflict, an eternal radicalization of the national idea. Ukraine can become a normal Ukraine: a strong, independent, neutral nation with a developed economy, a country in which the main value is human. Let us still see the future and think about the categories of the future. And the future is not based on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u15	30 seconds to complete and dot, dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, let us still see the future, and the future is based, not on hatred, but on peace, unity, jobs, wage increases, and pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u17	Thank you. Please, from the "Block of Peter Prashenko", from the faction, invite the head of the faction Arthur Gerasimov. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u18	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Yesterday, at its meeting, the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko excluded Borislav Rosenblat from its National Deputy of Ukraine, and mostly by a majority of votes, decided to support the removal of his parliamentary integrity and to hold him accountable. We also decided to remove the inviolability of all the national MPs who had been brought before the Attorney General's Office. I would like to stress that this is a political decision. The involvement of Borislav Rosenblat and other deputies in the commission of an offence must be established by the court. It is worth noting that the faction has satisfied our colleague’s request to deprive him of his inviolability so that he can defend his own dignity in court. In a democratic society, only a court can determine the fault and level of responsibility of a citizen. The position of the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko remains firm and firm. We support the President of Ukraine in that there can be no untouchable in Ukraine. I would like to remind you that it is through the President of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Parliament that substantial reforms and updates of the Attorney-General's Office and anti-corruption bodies have been ensured. For this reason, I want to say that it is equally important for the rule of law and for the establishment of a democratic system in Ukraine to form an independent judiciary. Because the old court system, the unreformed courts were and often remain the swamp where resonant cases against corruption officials are sinking and sinking. For all, there is an urgent need for cleansing and decisive reforms in the judicial branch of power. Today we have a unique opportunity to finally adopt the fundamental bills of judicial reform initiated by the President of Ukraine, which are complex changes to codes and the launch of the institution of constitutional complaint. They are aimed at clearing and re-launching the judicial system in Ukraine, creating an effective Supreme Court, and implementing modern mechanisms for its functioning. In addition, the Constitutional Complaint Institute will be finally approved and launched, and then the ordinary citizen will be able to appeal to the Constitutional Court. These laws are called upon to strengthen the protection of citizens’ rights and freedoms, to make Ukraine’s courts completely independent, honest and transparent. Only in this way will we be able to restore our fellow countrymen's trust in the Ukrainian courts at all levels. We have the historic opportunity for the first time in 26 years of independence to establish an independent, independent judiciary in Ukraine, which will be governed exclusively by the rule of law and ensure fair justice in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u19	Thank you, Mr. Arthur. Please, from the Radical Party, the head of the faction, please, Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko. Let's have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u20	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine, last week we received a new demonstration of Ukraine's limited sovereignty with President Prashenko when important negotiations on Ukraine took place without Ukraine itself. And at the first meeting of Trump with Putin at the G20 summit in Hamburg and at the tripartite meeting, in short "normal" format, Merkel, Macron and Putin. What threatens Ukraine with our actual quasi - sovereignty? Because our fate is being determined behind our backs, without Ukrainians. And no information visit to courtesy, like Secretary Tillerson's visit to Secretary of State, changes the essence of the situation. The other one. Has Ukraine received a fresh view and new approaches from the new U.S. administration to halt Russian aggression and achieve peace? No, it's not. Only mantras about the peace process and vain hopes on. dynamics in the implementation of the Minsk Accords. And no breakthrough in the understanding of Putin's global goals in seeing its effective ways of deterring it and achieving victory over the lewd Russia, which has actually declared a new cold war to the entire democratic world and which is using Ukraine as a battlefield, particularly to intimidate Europe and America. Once again, we have the retirement of a Russian aggressor, just like President Obama, with some stylistic specificity of President Trump. So the G20 summit testified, our Western partners blindly and stubbornly move on the road to nowhere, allowing Putin to destabilize the world and international order and to place peace and security on the market in exchange for the execution of his great national laws and requirements. The only way to do that is to strengthen Ukraine's ability to protect itself and its hard economic pressure on Russia. This includes granting Ukraine the status of a major non-NATO ally and the establishment of a bilateral defence agreement between Ukraine and the United States, including the implementation of guarantees under the Budapest Memorandum. This is also the introduction of new severe economic sanctions against Russia. However, neither the Great Twentieth Summit nor yesterday’s visit to Kiev by NATO has given special hopes and expectations. So I would like to point out that in this time of blindness and weakness of world leaders, we need to be strong on our own. Ukrainians, our fate is in our hands! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u21	From the Fatherland faction to the word, Sobolev Sergei is invited, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! I don't think this week is the last week of Parliament's work. Because I think the conference room will support the proposal that we continue to hold meetings and at any time could be assembled for any extraordinary or even state-of-the-art situations. But let's look at the daytime issues that await us. The first and key issue is pension reform. Yes, we are asked to include in the agenda dozens of issues governing pension reform. But some of the issues raised by Fatherland and which have been in Parliament for a year and a half, eventually about the abolition of pension taxes until now have not been considered, but will only be included in the agenda without consideration in fact. When the issue of the budget that the government’s so - called coalition failed, when 26 billion dollars to go to education, health care, housing subsidies that we warned the government about, and said, plan the reality of the payments, not some fig leaf that you covered up. And in fact, the opposition faction of "The Fatherland" is voting for the adoption of changes to the budget, so that from July 1st, the funds will be sent to people, to hospitals, to educational institutions, directly to those who have no ability to pay for municipal disproportionate services, the government coalition has overthrown this bill and is now falling into the budget committee. See where the members of the budget committee were to adopt decisions within two weeks and support the need to channel these funds. They're not in the hall until now. And now what's happening on the budget committee when the "hotels" of the President's Office are trying to replace the need for a vote on education, health and other issues is the price of this coalition. The second question. This is a matter of budget filling. Why so far no de-offshoring bill has been put into the agenda after the budget has been filled. This will again be done before the New Year’s Eve, when taxes will be raised again and, in fact, in this way, in closing the holes in the budget. And the last question, but not the last. We must now begin to consider the issue of the removal of inviolability. The rules require that this be done within seven days. If someone wants to continue to reflect on the matter because of procedural issues in the courts, it will not work. You are obliged as Head of the Supreme Council to put this to the vote now. And our faction has decided to vote for all six petitions. If the MPs aren't to blame, go to court! And in court.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u23	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u24	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u25	Like millions of our citizens who are being mistrusted in this court system that you are not guilty of. Because when we have to sue the secretary of the village council in the Zaporozhye area for trying a coup d'état ("brains have already gone" to the U.S.A. and the prosecutor's office), there is a case for that, there is an arrest without any decisions. Please be like everyone else in court and prove your innocence. And please place it today as required.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u26	Final speech from "The will of the people." Rybczynski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u27	Dear Ukrainian people, Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Today's Parliament and all authorities have generally set a very ambitious goal of implementing comprehensive reforms aimed at bringing Ukraine to the highest European standards of living. However, how can you live in Europe by paying for European energy prices and food and by getting unacceptably low slave fruit wages and pensions. How can you give a European car with one hand, and another can take away the opportunity to make money in Europe, making unacceptably artificial dragon taxes. How can you give the oligarchs for the priceless business that the whole country has built, and then the whole country will pay as much as 1,312 dollars a pension. My pensioner's mother gets 1,490 dollars a month, that's only 50 euros. Please show me one European who can survive at least one month for 50 euros, and our pensioners, they survive and help their grandchildren. It is not necessary to deceive the people by proclaiming reforms that make complete sense of poverty. You don't have to bribe people with pension reform the essence of collecting the last thing people have to do to buy a hypothetical retirement pension. It's not reform, it's a cardboard trap for the naive and uneducated. Today, the average retirement age is 32.5 years. For the next 35 years, Ukrainians will have to buy insurance for tens of thousands of dollars. Then why pay the State Pension Fund for years if you have to pay more to get something? If Parliament does support the government's proposed initiatives, the people's lives will become even more poor and the gap will be even deeper. The anti-constitutional 15 percent pension tax should be abolished immediately, and the minimum pension should be raised to at least the minimum wage of 3,000, 200 dollars. The People's will MP group urges all MP factions to conduct a detailed review of the relevant bills and not to push a corrupt and greedy government into a treaty. Real pension reform is possible only through the development of the real economy and the creation of new jobs. That's the only way we're going to be able to talk about really overcoming the deficit of the budget fund, the pension fund, and therefore the pensionable pensions for our Ukrainian citizens. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u28	So the colleagues, the time spent on speaking from factions and groups, are finished. We're moving on to the day-to-day issues. I'm asking everyone to come in and take jobs, and now it's the first vote. Please, colleagues, please ask the factions to invite deputies into the hall, we have a very busy schedule, we need to work effectively and systematically. Please prepare for the vote. And we're moving to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on higher education in the area of Donetsk and Lugansk. And I'm going to put a motion on the vote right now so that we can look at it in a reduced procedure. A very important law needs an immediate decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I ask everyone to support the proposal, both the author and the committee, so that we can consider draft Law 6548 in a simplified manner. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, carefully, please take part in the vote. Vote, colleagues, please support, please vote. [[10:40:57]] For 158. 158 – a.k.a. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, as you recall a few months ago, the Supreme Council of Ukraine made an extremely correct decision when we allowed children from occupied areas to enter evacuated prisons without exams. In the same way, they supported young people in occupied areas and evacuated huts. But this is a very correct decision that we've made in a somewhat uneven way, the other knots that are near the collision line. Because today there is a lower percentage of the country's procurement in these institutions and we are faced with a huge request from such respectable universities as, for example, Mariupol State University, to solve this issue, and in the same way, we have helped to raise government orders, especially in such professions as the Ukrainian language, the Greek language of which the cathedrals of which are in these colleges. In fact, the bill that I'm talking about right now is the changes to section XV, paragraph 4.1, of the Act on Higher Education, which gives the same preferences to evacuated universities, to all the universities of Donetsk, Lugansk region that are near the collision line. And this is very much our operational and correct decision. I ask for his support today, not only in the first reading, but on the basis of the campaign as a whole. And I also appeal to the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council to have this bill signed today, to be signed by the President of Ukraine. And we're going to ask the head of state to sign it so that the knots that are near the collision line, where it's not that simple, don't lose the graduates. I would like to point out that there is also the Ministry of Education among the authors, this bill is fully in line with Mrs. Greenevich's honourable minister of education, and there are also members of different factions among the team. Please support me on the basis, as a whole today, to sign to the Head of the Supreme Council and to transmit to the President of Ukraine for signature.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u30	The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u31	Dear Head! Dear colleagues, national deputies of Ukraine! Law 6548 is not just an Act on increasing government procurement, it's primarily a law that protects educational infrastructure on the border with an aggressor. This is a bill that allows universities located in the border zone, Lugansk, the Donetsk region to recruit a contingent. By recruiting a contingent, we are actually leaving young people in this territory so that they can continue to protect their territory through education, through appropriate intelligence, through the development of an innovative economy. Dear colleagues, what is the point of this bill? In 2016, a so-called broad competition was launched. This means that the government order goes to children who have a big ball and who are going downtown and still to the west of Ukraine. Thus, a fixed government order actually allows all universities, including the University of Mariupol, to leave the contingent. Thank you very much, the committee voted unanimously. The profile committee unanimously for this bill. We thank the authors of this project: Irina Heratschenko, Maria Ionovy, Irina Lucenko, for being in this territory, they saw these problems and accordingly introduced the bill. It is therefore very important to vote now, to sign with Andrija Volodymyrovich, then to the President and immediately thereafter to make appropriate changes to the conditions of admission to higher education institutions. Thank you. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for this bill. On the other hand, I would like to refer to the national MPs who are now publishing political advertising on the Supreme Council stands asking to be removed. We have just returned from European parliaments, such as the Norwegian Parliament, the Danish Parliament, the European Parliament -- in no country in the world does any political force that respects Parliament, allows itself to hang rostrums or hang the spheres of Parliament with its political slogans. Political slogans have to be paid for political advertising, interest. Please take off your posters! I ask the session room to support this requirement, the immediate requirement of the entire session room! [[Applause]] We're asking. And I'm asking journalists to pay attention to what's going on here: there's no support in motion -- they're hanging their ads. Please sign up for the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, I support this position. This is no place for political advertising. It's not Inter. And I support this position, and I'm asking the National MPs to take the political advertisement out of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Colleagues, please record the performance. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Kurilo Vitaly Semenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! "Peter Prashenko's Block" will support the bill as a whole. We believe that this bill will allow the few higher education institutions of the Lugansk and Donetsk region, which are located in the area under control of Ukraine and which are not transferred to higher education institutions, and these institutions are mainly located in the Donetsk region, in the city of Slavyansk, a university of education, a machine-building academy in the city of Kramatorsk, in Mariupol, the National University of Mariupol, the University of Priazow. This will allow these universities to be in equal conditions with higher education institutions in the curriculum, and this will allow them to accept those children who will come from occupied areas to accept a more simplified procedure. This does not mean that these children will have any benefits. This means that they will simply have a more relaxed procedure for entering higher education institutions. I think that this decision has both a socio-humanitarian basis and a political basis. Because this is how we encourage parents, children from occupied areas: go to the great Ukraine, enter the higher educational institutions of Ukraine, and eat the bread of the invaders. I therefore appeal to all the national MPs to support the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u35	From the Radical Party of Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u36	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The reintegration of Donbas, the liberation of our territories, of my native Lugansk, where my childhood went through, where I made my first bread, that should be the task of public policy. Two million people in Ukraine have lost their homes, their earnings, their possessions, and their prospects as a result of Russian aggression. And sadly, the Ukrainian authorities do not pay enough attention to solving the problems of our brothers and sisters who have become refugees, displaced on their own land. Employment, social security, pensions, even the same municipal payments, the ability to teach their children or even put them into kindergartens -- all the problems that hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians face every day, forced refugees on their land. That is why we require the authorities to anticipate funds in the state budget. I've seen Prime Minister Groysman here today, there's going to be some budget changes, 700 million dollars you're putting back on the procurator's board. They already have four billion, you give them another 700 million, instead of giving them housing for the movers, to set them up for jobs, to rebuild the same abandoned apartment, to allow people to settle in there and not pay those space prices for tariffs and rents. I mean, I demand the government's attention to the problems of the displaced, to the problems of our people from Donbas, from the Crimea. And the main task is to bring them home, to liberate our territory, to restore peace to our home country. This requires decisive action, as British Prime Minister Winston Churchill said: "There are two roads to peace: the road to defeat and the road to victory." I propose to go to peace on the path of victory, not defeat.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u37	Thank you. From the Opposition Block of Dudenkov Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u38	Respectable Ukrainian citizens, respectable colleagues, Donbas is not just a territory, but the reintegration of Donbas is not just a freeing of territory. Donbas is a Ukrainian citizen who lives in these areas. These territories are now uncontrollable. But I want to say that we are obliged to give all our actions signs that we are concerned about our Ukrainian citizens, and they should feel this. The reintegration of Donbas should begin with respect for the people listed, respect for the right to choose, respect for decent social security, respect for education. Unfortunately, this bill is a small step because a very large set of problems is unresolved. But clearly the faction of the Opposition Block will support a bill that allows for higher education in a normal, peaceful environment. And I want to draw attention to the fact that we've registered a very large number of bills aimed at a comprehensive solution to the socio-economic, cultural development of the area. The infrastructure is destroyed, it needs to be restored. And I have a question -- I reported last time on a bill to make changes to the 2017 State budget, which is currently being prepared -- why they took the money from Donbas. Now you're talking about taking care of it, and with other hands you're taking the money. So, please, colleagues, I urge everyone to support the well-designed idea and not to stop at it, but to support that comprehensive package of bills, which has been introduced by the Opposition Block faction in particular on the socio-economic development of the territory and its most rapid integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u39	Yvchenko will pass the word to Rybchin from Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u40	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. The Fatherland faction supports the adoption of this bill on the basis and as a whole. And it treats with great respect our scientists and professors, who are, in fact, our intellectual forpost, who are fighting for the hearts and minds of our people and resisting Russian aggression. However, we have doubts that it is this bill, like the laws that we have already passed with you in the Hall of Assistance to Higher Education Institutions, will be implemented by this government and local authorities, coming out of the following. In November of last year, we adopted with you 266 votes, bringing together the entire hall, a bill on transferred higher education institutions. So since November, the government has not been able to meet the requirements of this bill: to reduce the coefficient from a unit by 0.8 for science and teaching staff moving highers. It's just that the situation can't be developed by the government, and they're suffering from this unnecessary bureaucracy. In order to transfer the equipment to the Makiyivsk Donnaba, who moved to Kramatorski, who agreed to the transfer, agreed to transfer the dormitories, and even found foreign investors from the Czech Republic who are willing to invest in the welfare of our citizens. We need to gather individual meetings at the Ministry of Education, engage the local authorities in which there were to be some kind of group, and move this issue that did not move for a year and a half. Similarly, about two years ago, we passed a bill, already signed, which is an act that allows displaced children to live free of charge in dormitories of higher education institutions. So the Ministry of Finance doesn't finance this program enough. And as far as we know, the Ministry of Education has a debt of about 960 million dollars, including remittances. However, they do have, for example, excess funding for a scholarship that could be postponed, but these bureaucratic measures are not being resolved. Therefore, we demand that the government, the local authorities, comply with the laws that have been passed. And we vote on the basis and in general and we support the scientists of Donetsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u41	Thank you. Let me tell you, we're about to make a closing statement after which we're going to move on to making a decision. Therefore, I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council and the heads of factions to invite all the deputies to the Hall. Now I give you my word, two minutes, Semimenach, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, today, under the occupation of a part of the territory of the Russian Federation, the State is bound to take care of it. so that children who are currently in temporary occupied territories, contrary to their will, may enter higher educational institutions located in the controlled territory. However, the way the legislative initiative is proposed to implement this idea raises many questions. In fact, children should be helped by their children, not by specific higher education institutions. Because what is proposed by this legislative initiative is actually interference today with the distribution of the Ministry of Education's public procurement, because today this principle foresees that government procurement in specific higher education institutions depends on the competitiveness of the competition in this institution, i.e. today the more successful the higher the educational institution the more the government order. And today, in the way proposed by the authors of the legislative initiative, we're actually creating a discriminatory norm. Let's just put it plainly on the basis of which the budgetary positions of the higher education institutions of Kharkiv, Odessa, Dnipra today will be the actual fixation of government procurement and the provision of specific higher education facilities to the Lugansk and Donetsk oblast. The other one. There is no reference to financial accounts in the bill. We have to show people, tax payers, well, what kind of a penny this is going to cost and what it's going to cost. The other one. I think if we're going to solve the issues and fates of those people that are really important today, I think that starting for the fourth year of war the Supreme Council has from adopting and reviewing the Law on Interimly Occupied Territories, which will decide the fate of millions of people both in this territory and in the occupied territory. And last of all. The Self-Help faction immediately urges the Head of the Supreme Council to raise questions about the removal of immunity from all MPs for whom there is submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u43	So, colleagues, I'm once again asking everyone to take up jobs. We're going to vote now. I appeal to all the deputies who are in bed while the deputies occupy jobs for one minute, Irina Heratchenko. And I'm asking everyone, in a minute, we're moving on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! I listened very carefully to the statements made by members of the MPs, including the argument put forward by honourable colleagues from Self-Help. You're well aware that we have to take into account some of the nuances of these areas that are near the collision line. Usually, aboriginals from these areas want to stay with their parents. That's a clear story. But there are some nuances. We offer to go there together, look at these vases. They're near the collision line. This in itself poses a danger and washes out the students. And that's why we have, you're right, something in manual mode today to support these bonds. What's more, there's usually evacuees on one street that we've already given preferences to, and for example, the same Mariupol State University that doesn't have these preferences. And today he's losing better students because he doesn't have this government order. Plus the key. If you and I put up a wager for young people from occupied areas and give them the opportunity to enter non-coastal units, then we're just including these nodes here, and we're expanding this list. It's about the financial side. This is a reconciliation with the Ministry of Education. Obviously this is the position of the government. And I'd like to support that. But you're right about these questions, they shouldn't be solving mosaically, but there should be a systemic solution. We'll do it. Now I'm asking you to back it up. This is the position of the Rectors of the Donetsk and Lugansk districts. They have to leave their graduates in these areas. If the young get out of there, believe me, our army will be very difficult to fight in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u45	So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the activities of higher education institutions in Donetsk and Lugansk regions (No.6548) with the proposal of a committee to take as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:00:57]] For 248 The law is passed. Colleagues! Colleagues, now we're moving on to the next chapter of "Inclusion in the Order of the Day Session." It's going to be, I'm asking everyone to stay put, it's going to be a short chapter, but we're going to go vote after each other, and so please don't leave the room. So please prepare for the vote. All these questions were noted in advance. I'm sure the factions have been able to get to know them and make their decisions accordingly. And we're going to the vote. I am the first to vote on the draft Law amending certain legislative acts to ensure public disclosure on the financing of community activities and the use of international technical assistance (No. 6674). Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. Vote. [[11:02:19]] For 209 The decision is not taken. Next is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Public Information on the Financing of Public Associations and the Use of International Technical Assistance (6675). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. [[11:03:03:03]] For-183 The decision is not made. Next, colleagues, we have a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on pension increases. We have basic law 6614 and five alternatives: 6614-1, 2, 3, 4, 5. And I urge everyone to vote in favour of getting into the agenda of the day session, getting into the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support, vote. [[11:03:51]] For 251 Decision taken. Next draft of the Law on Amendments to Article 588 of the Ukrainian Customs Code on Pension Insurance (6615 and 6615-1). Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:04:30]] For 252 Decision taken. Next draft of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Pension Insurance (numbers 6616 and 6616-1). Please vote and please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote. [[11:05:02]] For 260 Decision taken. Next draft of the Law amending the Code of Budgets for the Retirement of Pensions (numbers 6617 and 6617-1). Please vote, please support. Entry into the agenda of the day session only. [[11:05:34]] For 261 Decision taken. Next, colleagues, the law, is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws regarding territories with a special language regime (No. 6565). This is a proposal from the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information Policy, which held a field meeting in the front zone and, according to the meeting, requests that the Supreme Council support the incorporation of this law into the agenda of the session. Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session, please. [[11:06:21]] For 247 Decision taken. Next, colleagues, an important law, which I believe will unite the entire room, is a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to improve the rehabilitation of victims of Communist totalitarian repression in 1917-1991. It's a very important law that I'm sure everyone in the room supports. And I ask you to vote for the inclusion in the agenda of the 6574 session, please vote. [[11:07:14]] For 245 Decision taken. The next important Information Security Act is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to counter national security threats in the information field (6676). Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please support, we vote. [[11:07:50]] For 197 The decision is not made. Next, colleagues, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the identification of persons for the formulation, issuance, exchange, invalidity and destruction of documents that confirm Ukrainian citizenship bear witness to a person or to his or her special status (numbers 6630, 6630-1). Please vote, please support an extremely important bill and please include it in the agenda of the session. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:08:42]] For 210 The decision is not made. Next: Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the conduct of economic activity from foreign employment mediation (6275). Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. [[11:09:20]] For 199 The decision is not made. Next: Draft Law on Amendments to Article 149 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (as regards compliance with international standards) (No. 6243). Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session, we vote. Please be supportive. [[11:09:59]] For 217 Colleagues, I've been asked by the faction of Peter Prashenko to re-establish the two laws that were the first ones, and since the Rules do not limit it, I'm going to reintroduce them into the agenda of the session, and the People's Front insists that 6630 and 6630-1 once again put the proposal for inclusion into the agenda of the session. So please prepare for the vote. I hope that everyone has been able to understand these bills, and consultations have been held, and I once again propose that the draft Law amending certain legislative acts to ensure public disclosure on the financing of community activities and the use of international technical assistance be included in the agenda of the session (6674). Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote. [[11:11:16]] For 199 Arthur, the next one doesn't even make sense to bet. My colleagues, I ask you once again to put to the vote an important question, to my conviction, concerning the security sector, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the identification of a person for the formulation, issuance, exchange, invalidity and destruction of documents that confirm Ukrainian citizenship, certify a person or his special status. Colleagues, I'd like to stress, this is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. This is a question that applies to the use of biometric passports for other countries primarily for communities. Colleagues, when we put in the order of the daily session 2.5 thousand laws exactly, we didn't all see them when 2.5 thousand laws and we included all the laws that were even named from the place. This question, which I stress once again, actually solves the issue of biometric passports for entry into Ukraine first of all from the aggressor country and it's just the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, yet there's no committee we'll be able to have a discussion on the committee, we'll be able to talk in the hall. I ask you to vote and please support the inclusion in the agenda of draft laws 6630 and 6631. Just getting into the agenda of the day session so the committee can look at it, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:13:18]] For the 220. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, now. Let the people come in, let them take their seats, I'll put them back in. Six votes are not enough, that's not enough. I would like to emphasize once again, colleagues, that we've all worked together for the law, to the Cabinet of Ministers for the introduction of visas with Russia. It would only be our appeal, not our decision, it would be just an appeal, not a decision. Here we have a chance by the Law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to settle this matter by our law. Not to turn, not to ask for help, but to decide with your vote. I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall. We're short six votes. I'm going to do it again, and I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take up jobs right now. I ask you to take a responsible vote. I ask you to vote in favour of the inclusion of the agenda so that the committee can proceed to the consideration. This is a proposal from the National Security and Defence Council, my friends! Let us vote responsibly. And I invite everyone to the vote. And I'm voting for the day-to-day session draft Laws 6630 and 6631. And I'm asking you to support everyone. Colleagues, we vote responsibly. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Everyone, please take your seats. Every voice matters! And please vote. Colleagues, we vote! Vote. [[11:15:25]] For 217 No votes. All right, I'll do it the third time, colleagues. Colleagues, I'll put it again, third time on the vote. And I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting 6630 and 6631 -- inclusion in the agenda of the session. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. [[11:16:11]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, just like I said, after getting into the dayroom. Colleagues, let's exchange our thoughts. And then we can go back to that question again. Now, colleagues, colleagues, please. Now I'm going to put two factions to the vote -- a four-course transfer. So I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Before the vote, I would like to make an announcement which came to the presidency that, according to the minutes of the parliamentary faction of the Party "Block of Peter Prashenko" of 10 July 2017, I am reporting the exclusion from the parliamentary faction of the political party "The Unification of the Party "Block of Peter Poroshenko" of the Ukrainian National Deputy Rosenblat Borislav Solomonovich. And, colleagues, I want to make a message. I received a letter from the leaders of the deputy factions: the "Block of Petra Poshenko" of Herasimov Arthur Leonidovich and the political party "National Front" Burbak Maksim Juriovich, proposing to move on Thursday, 13 July 2017, to consider the issues of the Attorney-General regarding the granting of consent to the criminal responsibility of Ukraine's Long People's deputies, Dedeja, Lozov and the granting of consent to the prosecution of criminal liability, detention and selection of precautionary measures in the form of detention under the watchful custody of Ukraine's national deputies, Poland, Rosenblat and Dobkina, predicting that one morning plenary session would be held without interruption at 12:00-12:30, with its continuation until the end of the agenda of the day session. This possibility of changing the working order of the Supreme Council is foreseen in part two and in article 19 of the Rules. In view of this, I am voting on the proposal of MP factions. I want to emphasize, it is suggested that we work on Thursday without interruption so that we can look at all the submissions after the committee's submission on Dobkin. So everyone can determine their position by voting, colleagues. In this case, I emphasize, no later than seven days I have time to set up if there is no special decision of the Supreme Council. And that's why I'm voting on this proposal. If it doesn't get enough, today we're going to go over those taxes that took seven days. So I'm voting on the proposal of two factions that I've just heard. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:20:29]] For 190 It's not a decision you make, colleagues. I will immediately contact the Attorney General to find out when he will be able to arrive at the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration. I think it could be, like, 12:30, tops. I emphasize once again, and please don't take me in screaming. I said we'll move on as soon as the Henprosecutor confirms how long he can come. It could be either 12 or 12:30. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking everyone to calm down. Today we're going to consider the application for recess in the near future. Now I'm going to turn to the Attorney General and ask him to come to the session room as soon as possible so that we can get to the point where we can address the issue of removing the parliamentary immunity. Now, me. Now, colleagues, we move on to the next issue of the agenda. This is a bill amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes to improve the financing mechanism for radioactive waste management (number 6435). And I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Moskalenko Jaroslav Mikolaiovich, please. Eutusek, Eutusek. [[do not hear]] Eutushka. Oh, I'm sorry. He'll be reporting from the Fishbuck Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u46	Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, respected colleagues, the purpose of the bill is to restore the cumulative status of the State Fund for the Management of Radioactive Wastes in order to develop the necessary infrastructure and to support the safety of existing objects to deal with radioactive wastes at the current level. As stated in the financial and economic justification for this bill, under the existence of the State Radioactive Waste Management Fund, it is planned to gradually move on to 100% funding for radioactive waste management by 2019. The cost of the fund will be used to develop a system of radioactive waste management, to build long-term storage, scientific research and development, to transport radioactive waste and sent nuclear fuel to shelters in the alien zone. Ten proposals by Ukrainian national deputies were tabled before the bill. At its meeting, the committee took the number 3, 4 and 10 proposals into account. Five, six, seven, eight, and nine counted editorially, and proposal one and two were rejected. The adoption of this bill will contribute to improving the safety of existing and future generations from the harmful effects of ionizing radiation from radioactive wastes, to reducing social and psychological tensions in society, to creating a positive attitude in society towards the application of nuclear and radiation technologies through the introduction of state action on population security and the environment. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Disaster Management recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on Financing for Radioactive Waste Management, under registration number 6435, second reading, and generally as a law. I propose to move on to the discussion of amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u47	You're done, aren't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u48	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u49	Let's move on to the amendments. Please, amendment number one, national deputy Eutuszek. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u50	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. John, tell me, please, we all understand that this fund has already been created, which is intended to generate revenue, and we will continue with the amendments to speak which will be used there in the direction of the bill. But we also understand that the state budget is created from two, a special and a common fund. Now, I'd like to understand why the committee rejected my first amendment, where the proposal was clear, came from me a proposal to set up a fund and send all the congregations that would come in. Why did the committee reject the amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u51	I can explain why the committee rejected your right. Because your right was to say, "A state fund for the management of radioactive wastes (hereinafter: the fund) is being created within the state budget of Ukraine." According to an editorial that was voted in the first reading, if we read it, the proposal was: "A state fund for the state budget of Ukraine creates a state fund for the management of radioactive waste." The point is that today these funds will be accounted for accordingly if we vote for this law in general, of course, at the expense of the environmental tax paid for dealing with radioactive waste. And it's these costs that are going to be focused on the measures that I've been making in my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u52	Thank you. Are you insisting on your amendment? No, it's not. Thank you. Next amendment number two, national MP, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u53	I've already started to talk, Sergey Eutuszk, the "Fatherland" faction, about how not only would we be allowed to fall from different congregations to form this fund. In my second amendment, I suggested that we still be able to fill this fund and benefit from legal and physical persons. And I also don't understand why the committee didn't have a positive look at my amendment and not allow charities, both legal and physical, to contribute to this fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u54	Thank you. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Sergio, we had a discussion on the possibility of charitable contributions, of engaging in charitable contributions from legal and natural persons just as we considered the right at our committee meeting. Unfortunately, support among committee members has not found such a proposal, but if I think that if we put this proposal on the floor, we can now support your right. If you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u56	Are you insisting? Yes, please, ladies and gentlemen, amendment No. 2 of the national deputy Eutuska, the committee is ready to support it, it was previously rejected. Please vote. [[11:28:52]] For-96 Thank you. For 96, no decision is taken. And I now ask two closing statements from the committee and the minister of ecology. And then we'll move on. Is he gonna fix it? 3rd? Please. 3 more amendments, National Deputy Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear Chairman, the 3rd amendment is mine. I wanted to thank the committee that accepted the amendment, which was a fairly correct amendment. That these funds will be approved directly from the State Fund, the distribution of these funds will be approved by the Committee on Environmental Policy, and then by agreement with the Committee on Budgets will be distributed. That's a pretty good approach. I thank you for supporting my work, as well as Julius Volodymyrny Timoshenko, who also talks about the allocation of funds directly to environmental consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u58	Thank you. I don't think we should comment. There is another remedy from the national deputy Eutushka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u59	Sergey Eutuszek, Fracchia Fatherland. I also want to thank the committee for its fruitful work and I want to say that our faction will support the bill as a whole. And the only thing I'd like to do is address both the chairman and the minister present in the room. We have a long - established fund, and we would like to understand, for sure, what expenses the direction has been aimed at is already in the working order of the committee or on Friday, let the Ukrainian people and the parliamentarians know where the funds from that fund were going. And the "Fatherland" faction today votes on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u60	Thank you. And a closing word from the committee, please. And then he's the minister of ecology. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, the adoption of this bill will allow for the directing of funds to create new technologies in the field of radioactive waste management, the formation in society of just a positive attitude towards nuclear and radiation technologies, the security of the population, the construction and maintenance of nuclear fuel landfills and most of the rights have been taken into account. This is a very important bill, because it returns essentially the fund that we had before 2011 in Ukraine and worked effectively and qualitatively enough to benefit the state. I thank you all very much for supporting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u62	Thank you. And I would like to ask the Minister of Ecology. And, ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to return to the hall in a few minutes, we will proceed to the vote. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u63	Thank you to the chairman, and thank you also to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Ecology for its active and efficient work, as well as to all the national MPs who have applied, they have been absolutely right and have increased the level of parliamentary control over the implementation, the use of funds. I would also like to say that the purpose of this law is actually to restore the management mechanism of the State Radioactive Waste Management Fund, which is essentially to raise costs, not taxes, and the cost of services, those who form radioactive waste, pay the appropriate costs, and those costs should be used by the State as a responsible partner to use the very conditions for dealing with radioactive waste. I also wanted to say that the actual mechanism that was created would allow for the continuation of the construction, the financing of the construction of radioactive waste facilities, which unfortunately have not been financed by the State or built in recent decades. Moreover, the restoration of the RAV Fund will provide an opportunity to work with international partners. And what our colleagues in Fatherland, the national deputy Eutuszek, have offered us the opportunity, with such a fund, to engage in donor funding. And I would also like to say that the projected use of these funds under three programs is to do work in the area of radioactive waste management, the second program, the budget program, it's to support an ecologically safe state in the area of exclusion, and the third budget program is to support the safe state of the power grids and the shelters of the Chernobyl nuclear power station. In other words, the funds will focus on clearly defined budget programmes and in partnership with the Committee on Budgets will analyse quality, efficiency and relevance. So, honourable colleagues, I would like to support the joint work of the government and the parliament, and to vote on this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u64	Thank you, colleagues. There will be a decision-making process. So I ask everyone to come in and take the seats and prepare for the vote. I'd like to inform you that the Attorney General of Ukraine will arrive at the 1230 session room and we'll begin our consideration of the motions for lifting parliamentary immunity. Now, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, we're moving on to making decisions. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes to improve the financing mechanism for radioactive waste management (number 6435). We have completed our discussion of the rights, the unifying law, and the room supports it, and I ask for the support of the committee’s proposal. Draft Law 6435 should be adopted in a second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:36:00]] For 231 The law is passed. Hello. Colleagues, I've been approached by a statement from two factions to announce the break from the Peter Prashenko and the People's Front factions. And I'd like to invite Arthur Gerasimov to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u65	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, as you know today and on more than one occasion before this, we have stressed the importance of judicial reform, which we must conclude and adopt today, which relates to constitutional conduct and changes to procedural codes. Therefore, honourable colleagues, Your Honor Andriy Volodymyrovich, I ask you to put to the vote in order to decide in this room the matter of the bill of day (6427-d) the draft Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u66	Thank you. I'm going to put this motion to a vote so that we can put forward a daily draft of the Constitutional Court Act (6427-d). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:37:28]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. And we're moving on to the next issue of the agenda -- this is a law that is actually accompanying that law that we passed earlier -- is a bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on improving the financial security mechanism for dealing with radioactive wastes (number 6436). Colleagues, I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. I ask you to vote and I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Vote, colleagues, please. This is an accompanying simple law and I ask everyone to support this proposal. We're voting for a reduced procedure. Vote. [[11:38:28]] For-173 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Minister of Environment and Natural Resources Semerak Ostap Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u67	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor Andrey Volodymyrovich. Dear National Deputies! In fact, Bill 6436 on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on improving the financing mechanism for radioactive waste management is paired with the previous law, which you just voted for, which I am very grateful for, and they should be voted together. I would like to point out that today the situation has to do with the functioning of the State Fund for the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes (RAV Fund) is very unsatisfactory. There is a systematic underfunding of planned measures for the development of a radioactive waste management system in Ukraine that has to do with improving the safety of objects designed to deal with radioactive waste. In fact, the creation of objects and the implementation of other measures to develop the RAV system of conduct is only due to the availability of funding under international technical assistance. The creation of such a fund will enable us to be proper partners and to have an additional opportunity to raise the costs of international partners. This is a situation that we have today, unfortunately, come from the introduction. Radioactive waste management has a negative impact on the security of functioning and the continued development of the national nuclear energy sector as a whole, Ukraine's adherence to the fundamental international principles of ensuring the management of radioactive waste and the use of nuclear energy. The behaviour of RAV, including the provision of a reliable mechanism for financing jobs with these wastes, relies on the state. Therefore, I ask you, fellow believers, to support this law in the first reading and in general. This is the appropriate decision of two committees — the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Ecology. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u68	Thank you. And to my co-report, I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on the budget of Ischeikin Kostin Evgenovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u69	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The Budget Committee at its meeting on 24 May considered a bill amending the budget code number 6436. The bill proposes to amend the budget code and to establish a state-owned fund for the management of radioactive wastes, which will have a cumulative nature. The foundations of the fund are proposed to come to the special fund of the government’s environmental tax budget, which works for the formation and temporary storage of radioactive waste. Such a tax is now included in the State Budget’s general fund. The validity of the law is proposed as of January 1, 2018, which is in line with part three of article 27 of the Code of Budgets. The implementation of the bill will result in a redistribution of the revenue and expenditure of the State budget between the general and the special funds. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council's Apparatus noted the need for simultaneous consideration of drafts for registration numbers 6435 and 36, which are systematically linked. Therefore, as a result of the Committee's consideration, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill number 6436 to be adopted on a basis and generally as a law taking into account the committee's proposals made in a letter to the bill. Then the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should the bill be adopted in the drafting of the relevant law, should be provided with the necessary editorial and technical legal details relating to the committee's decision. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention. Thank you. And I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. Semenha Roman Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u70	Markevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u71	Markevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u72	The Self-Help faction supports the adoption of Bill 6436, which is derived from 6435, which we have just voted on as a whole, and supports the committee's decision to vote as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u73	Thank you. From the "Father's" faction, Evtushok Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u74	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. The "Fatherland" faction will also support this bill, because the truth is said by the minister, it's a derivative bill that we just voted on earlier. But I want to thank both the delegations and, in fact, the minister. Because literally recently, there was a meeting in London where they looked very clearly at what had been saved in the Hidden Program in Ukraine, 62 million dollars to return to donors who were sending money to this project. The Ukrainian side managed to convince the board of these donors that these funds could be used for equipment and for the purchase of unstable structures. That's why, Minister, you are personally grateful and grateful to the Ukrainian people's deputies, the delegation that was and convinced the donor council not to take this money, but to use it in our Chernobyl in Ukraine. The Fatherland faction will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u75	Thank you. Colleagues, I don't see the People's Front and the Peter Dusty Block. Tell me who's going to come from your factions. Okay. Now it's Yatzenko Anton Volodymyrovich from the Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u76	Dear friends, well, we really supported the first law on this subject, but I'm very surprised that it's only 231 votes, because it's a matter of ecology and our country, our land. So I think there's too little support for this law. And this law is definitely going to be supported, it's technical. And it's gonna be okay. The only thing, Mr. Speaker, is to address you. Right now, we're in the middle of the day, taking advantage of the opportunity, there's the Law 3491-d on Education. There are 800 pages. It was distributed only today. Therefore, he asked to be withdrawn and transferred so that the deputies could get to know him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u77	Thank you. I can let you know, if there's going to be a discussion today about the elimination of inviolability, I think it's going to be difficult for us to go over any other issues. And that's why I think it's going to be the way you expect it to be. Please, from Peter Dustock's Block. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, the bill is indeed derived from the previous bill, which has just been supported by our Parliament, for which I thank everyone. And what I'm saying is that a purely technical bill -- making changes to the Budget Code -- will allow for the technical formation of an appropriate fund. And the adoption of this bill will contribute to increasing the level of security of existing and future generations from the harmful effects of ionizing radiation from radioactive waste, to reducing social and psychological tensions in society, to creating a positive attitude in society towards the application of nuclear and radiation technologies through the conduct, proper conduct and proper use of the real technologies that exist today in the entire civilized world. So I urge everyone to support this bill. The bill will indeed contribute positively to improving the environment and health of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u79	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. And I'm going to have another request to all the national MPs: to consider a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the rehabilitation of victims of Communist repression by 12 hours. We'll put it in the order of the day session. It's short, it's supported by everyone so that we can get through it quickly by 12 o'clock. After this vote, I'll put it on the table, and we'll put it in the order of the day session. So we're moving on to making a decision. And, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a bill amending the article. I'll give you 30 seconds to get in. God, where's the law? So we're in, right, ready? Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on Improving the Financial Security Mechanism for the Management of Radioactive Wastes (number 6436) as proposed by the Committee in its first reading and in general, please vote, please support. Vote. 6436, we vote. Please be supportive. [[11:49:21]] For 259. Decision taken. We have adopted important environmental laws, and this is also our international commitment. And I welcome Kabmin and the committee with quality work. Colleagues, as I have told you, I am now asking that we support the law, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the rehabilitation of victims of the communist totalitarian regime of 1917-1991. This is a law that will allow many fighters to be rehabilitated for Ukrainian independence during the twentieth century. And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[11:50:19.]] For 176 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, in 2015, Ukraine passed Law 317-VIII "On the Condemnation of the Communist and National Socialist (Nazi) Totalitarian) Regimes in Ukraine and the Prohibition of the Propagandization of Their Symbolism", which the Communist regime of 1917-91 has been criminalized and which has pursued a policy of State terror that has been characterized by numerous human rights violations in various forms. Under this law, the State is obliged to eliminate the consequences of the crimes of the Communist regime and to restore historical justice in relation to its victims. The need to rehabilitate victims of Communist repression is also noted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, of which Ukraine is a member, in the resolution on measures to eliminate the legacy of the former communist totalitarian systems. Therefore, the moral obligation of the State of Ukraine is to rehabilitate these people and restore their good name, such people up to 10,000 in Ukraine, this is the exploitation, forced removal of property in our Ukrainian peasants, these internally displaced citizens, these deported Crimean Tatars, they are also forced by the national motive of the Crimean Tatars, many, many others, Germans, Bulgarians, Greeks, and, above all, Ukraine. This is what Bill 6574 refers to. What does he propose? To establish that the basis for the rehabilitation of persons without any additional requirements is the application of reprisals by the communist regime in the non-convictional order, so-called triads, special councils of the NCSC, etc. To rehabilitate persons convicted of acts that were not considered crimes in a civilized society under the Resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Third. Create special commissions from rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u81	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u82	The adoption of this law and the further rehabilitation of victims of Communist repression is an important step towards restoring confidence in Ukraine as a state that respects including those who have fought and fought for its independence. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u83	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Veterans, Actors, ATOs and People with Disabilities, Yuri Bogdan Romanovich. Sir, Yuri, perhaps from the place? It'll be more comfortable, I think. Please turn on Yuri's mana microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u84	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The proposed law is a restoration of truly historic justice. How can it be that the regime that has been criminalized and those who have fought against this criminal regime still remain criminals? Let's move on. Isn't the nonsensence that there is a point there is not the rehabilitation of those who have been accused of betraying the state. What State? A state that no longer exists. By that law, we rehabilitate hundreds and hundreds of innocently convicted, innocently repressed on a national basis, on a religious basis, by the social sign of the evicted, deported, convicted, deprived of all civil rights. And now this law puts everything in its place. I think we can't, literally can't stop adopting this law, because otherwise it turns out that those who advocated this criminal regime are still privileged caste. At the time, those who fought against the criminal regime fought for an independent Ukrainian state, were seconded, unrecognizable, and those who fought with weapons in their hands were found criminals. I urge everyone in the name of justice, in the name of Ukraine, to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u85	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. From the People's Front to the word Lapin Igor Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u86	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, I propose to mobilize and not expand the field, but to vote on this law, and the People's Front will support it fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u87	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Nemirovsky Andry Valentinovich, please. Nemirowski from Peter Dustenk's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u88	It is vital that we be supportive. In each family, there are people in each family who were persecuted during Soviet times. At the moment, there are more than 10,000 of these people. That's why this law only has to be voted in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u89	And a closing statement. From Self-Help, Wojciecki Victoria Mikhailovna. Two minutes from now, we're moving on to a decision, and I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u90	Please pass the word to Oleg Berezuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u91	Thinking about this bill, I think it's the story of a soldier of the Ukrainian Armed Forces who was detained in Italy a few weeks ago and who doesn't believe in Italian prisons. This is a new repressive warrior who has fought and fought for his country. The state of colonial Soviets did not care for Ukrainians who cared for their state, and it destroyed them. Today, this bill restores justice. Many are gone, and there are still a few who live out their days. It is important for us to show our children that we respect those who stand up for their country, the Ukrainian state, and punish those who rob, rob, and kill our people. And so by voting for this law, I want each of us to think about the soldier of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, who is now sitting in an Italian prison, so that we can adopt the law as soon as possible, including the occupied territories, and the Ukrainian soldier legally, de jure, was worthy not only of his land, because he is worthy of the apiori, but worthy and in accordance with the laws of his country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u92	So, colleagues, the discussion is over, we're moving to making decisions, and I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Colleagues, I urge all patriots who care about our historical heritage to take up their jobs and we move to a vote. And I'm voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the rehabilitation of victims of the communist totalitarian regime of 1917-1991 (number 6574) on the basis of a committee proposal. Yeah? Based on the base. Please vote, please support. We vote, colleagues, carefully, please all take part in the vote and support. Vote 6574 as a basis. Please vote. [[12:00:23]] For 245 Decision taken. This is an important responsible decision of the Ukrainian Parliament. And according to the Rules, I'm now going to recess until 12:30. At 12:30 I ask everyone to come to the hall to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that just in 12 hours, a telephonegram came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Attorney General, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, stating that, in connection with being on duty, I would like to arrive at the Supreme Council to attend the plenary meeting to agree to a criminal charge at 4:00 p.m. At 4:00. Colleagues, I read you the official document. [[B in m in s a l in]] I, my colleagues, have just read the official document that came into the Supreme Council's apparatus. Let's exchange our thoughts for a minute. Colleagues, please pay attention in the hall. I ask the heads of factions to exchange their thoughts. Please, all factions. Arthur Gerasimov, please. I've got a strong one.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, today the Supreme Council has decided to move on to a review of the removal of parliamentary immunity. I can tell you right now that the Peter Dust Block faction made this decision yesterday at its meeting and will support all these submissions. But for today, we do. They told the Attorney General of Ukraine that as soon as he's within the city, he'll be here at 4:00, in the Supreme Council. Therefore, it is a great request, so far until the Attorney-General is born, without which we cannot consider these submissions in the Supreme Council to proceed to the consideration of the agenda in order not to kill the efficiency of Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u95	Please, the People's Front, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I understand the degree of tension in this session room. And so it's a shame that we didn't discuss this when we had our proposals for the transfer and consideration of all the submissions on Thursdays. Sadly, then, the hall did not join us in having a full day on Thursday to consider all the issues. And I believe that Self-Help, which, along with the Environment today, gives zero votes for any normal, positive decisions in this room, once again confirms that this room has created a united opposition in Self-Help, Parenthood and former districts in the District. Here they are, all of their efforts to draw attention to the political processes in order to distract attention from the garbage problem and what this party has loaded into this garbage country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u97	Please, the Opposition Block. Dopkin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, under the Rules, the Attorney-General was obliged to report today on the submission he had made to the Supreme Council and had no right to travel because he could not know the decision of the Supreme Council - whether or not it would be resolved. Therefore, I support my parliamentary colleagues, and I demand that the submission of deputies be immediately considered, which the Office of the Attorney-General reported so loud to journalists, and today it is afraid and unable to come here and finish its earlier crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u99	Next. Self-help next, excuse me. Oleg Beresuk. Yegor Sobolev, one minute, please. Then there's the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that this is disrespect for the laws and disrespect for Parliament. In all civilized states, prime ministers, not to mention general prosecutors, who are accountable and accountable to Parliament, in any civilised state are immediately challenged by Parliament. The Attorney General knew very well that today the day was running out when Parliament was to make a decision to give consent to the criminal responsibility of Eugene Dedey. The Attorney General knew that he had to personally present this to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask all of us to oblige the Speaker of Parliament to call the Attorney General immediately to do his job. In fact, all the work in these investigations has been done by detectives of the Anti-Corruption Office and the prosecutor of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, and only one thing is required of Henprocuror to come and read the file. He's ready, he's in the material.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u101	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u102	Everyone saw that the Attorney General had answered questions on the Rules Committee, that he should not be allowed to abuse Parliament, abuse the law, and delay the adoption of that decision. We take off the touch, we quietly pass laws with respect from the citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u103	Thank you. Just as I have no obligation to do anything, from the rostrum of the Supreme Council I have publicly summoned Henprocuror to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, then Fatherland,
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u104	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I'll tell you why there's no Lucenka. Five applications from the Attorney General to the National Deputies, each, is a minimum of one and a half hours, if at 16 hours, we can only go through one, all the other submissions that should be considered within a seven-day period are not considered and then this is the basis for cancelling the decisions of the Supreme Council in the Supreme Administrative Court. The absence of Attorney General Lucenk, despite all his pear, as he struggles here against parliament and the MPs, demonstrates one thing: Lucenko has nothing to say. Lucenko is deceiving the Ukrainians. Lucenko tells us how he struggles and comes here to report forged matters to him. That's the last of it. Lucenko says he's on his way. I'll tell you where he's headed. By two nights, he was drinking, and now he is falling asleep. Let them analyze the blood alcohol content and see where it is shipped. Sergey Sobolev will be speaking from the Fatherland faction for one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u105	Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! Everyone understands the game, and before me, Deputy Mosiyczuk, I specifically call it his last name, because it's because of the violation of the Rules that the Supreme Administrative Court has given us the right decision and we don't hear any apologies from the Attorney General's Office or the submissions we've been promised. So you either apologize and say that these are actually fabricated pictures and there were no pictures, or then do the right thing according to the law. The other one. For us there is a second fundamental moment, now that we have missed a seven-day term, we are bringing court disputes into Parliament and in fact, this is a direct crime that is being pushed by the Head of Parliament, because the answer in court will be the Head of Parliament and in fact he will be responsible for the missed terms, so now and immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u106	From Rebirth Group? Nobody. "The will of the people"? Nobody. There was a replica mentioned by Igor Moseschuk, one minute for the replica. Then I'll announce my decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u107	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear colleagues! The Radical Party faction and I are convinced that most of the Ukrainian Parliament require the immediate arrival of Attorney General Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka to Parliament and the presentation of contributions for which either he or those to whom he or she is involved can't do otherwise. In this country the law and law must be applied to all, not selectively, as the Attorney General does, mixing the righteous and translating from a sick person’s head to a healthy one. In response to what my colleague said, I'm ready, and I want to make a presentation, and then I'm going to show a movie, because there's a new movie, there's a sequel, the second series of "Shakin's Cinema." Everything will be and everything will be according to the law! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u108	Thank you, colleagues. We exchanged thoughts, now I ask you to listen to my position, colleagues. The issue of the removal of parliamentary immunity is an extremely sensitive and important issue. Moreover, I'm going to exaggerately say that today is question number one in the order of the day of the Ukrainian state that the Ukrainian society is waiting for and on which there is a question of the whole society. As the Supreme Council, it is extremely important for us to endure all the norms and procedures when we consider these issues. I will exaggerately say: there is an effort by the Supreme Council to discredit, but the Supreme Council has responded quickly and effectively on all issues. Just as the decisions of the committee were, so was the willingness to consider. But at the same time, I would like to point out to you that, under the Rules and in accordance with the procedure, we cannot, without the Attorney-General's presence, begin to consider matters, which may be a violation that will then be abolished in court. And so I want to inform everyone that as head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I have no right to start a hearing without the presence of a prosecutor. I have an offer to wait for the prosecutor, maybe he'll come sooner. And at the same time, I'm going to propose that we vote to continue our session to consider at least two petitions. As a minimum, we have a deadline of two. I am a proponent of considering all five petitions, and I am in favour of having this matter resolved before us today. Before society. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, I'm going to ask the hall to continue the evening session to consider all motions for the removal of parliamentary immunity. So that we can vote in favour of the continuation of the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine before the completion of the examination of all submissions. Colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u109	All hands on deck.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u110	All hands on deck. Colleagues, is there support like this? So I'm asking you, colleagues, to take up jobs now and get ready for the vote. This is a responsible vote. And I am convinced that the entire Supreme Council Hall will vote in favour of this proposal so that we can start the consideration of the issues of inviolability and work until all the submissions that are on the Supreme Council of Ukraine have been decided by the Regulatory Committee until we are finished. Is my position understood? Are all of them supported, fellow workers? Then I ask you to take your seats, prepare for the vote. Please, I want to clarify, is this a supported position, is this a negotiated position?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u111	Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u112	Vote. So I'm betting. [[B in m in s a l in]] Five servings, yes, five, five offerings. I'm being corrected by the chairman of the regulatory committee. Five petitions are yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u113	Today?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u114	Today. Five servings today. So please prepare for the vote. I'm putting a motion to the vote, by the way, we have to take it in the morning to continue the evening so that we can continue the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today to consider five petitions that are ready for consideration at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Attention! Every voice, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues, please. Please be supportive. [[12:55:50]] For 233 Colleagues, we're out of this colony that we're in. So, colleagues, today I want to set up everyone so that all the meetings that were scheduled after 6:00 are cancelled. I would like to point out that, according to the procedure, the examination of a single submission takes place within an hour and a half. I will of course call on everyone to shorten that term. I'll call for us to pass at least an hour. But still, five hours from four o'clock -- it could take up to nine o'clock in the morning. We can't start the discussion now, my friends. Without the Attorney General's presence, we can't begin the debate. So I'm asking that all meetings after 18 hours be cancelled so that we can move on to the agenda. And once again, according to the procedure, I don't have one right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] We wait for him to arrive. [[B in m in s a l in]] So write your application. Colleagues, a statement has been made. Colleagues, I've got a statement from two factions. Now, colleagues, I want to tell you once again the simplest thing. We have a full-blown agenda that we have to consider, we have two options: or we're going to look at other issues. Then, colleagues, I have a statement from two factions to announce the break, and I propose a real break. And meet me in the faction heads' office for discussion. So again in factions, right, per minute? Then let's have a fraction-by-minute exchange of thoughts. So, colleagues, I'll let you know again, I'll tell you again. I dropped the application. I'll explain the logic again. I'm asking everyone to calm down, we have a simple situation, we can't start without the Attorney General's presence. We have important questions in the daytime. Let's talk for a minute, but not with the questions of grades, but with the suggestions on how to act? If we don't work it out, then I'm going to gather the heads of factions, and we're going to decide how we're going to proceed. Please, in a minute. Arthur Gerasimov. In a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I want to tell you that we are now seeing an attempt to disrupt Parliament's work. I want to remind you that we have just voted in favour of having the Attorney-General in the Supreme Council today, we will consider all submissions without interruption. Next question, but I want to remind you again, we're having the last sessional week. And finally, the next issue in the day is the very serious issue of judicial reform in the country. What do I see? That certain factions block judicial reform and do not want to consider it. I only have one simple question: Are you satisfied with Janukovic's judicial system? Therefore, the proposal, Andrew Volodymyrovich: For now, it is clear to continue the consideration of order, the issues of order, until the appearance of the Attorney General’s Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u116	People's Front, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I call upon everyone to calm down, to lower the degree of tension in this room. And on another occasion, I remind you that there was an initiative of two factions of the coalition that decided yesterday by factions to vote for all submissions, because MPs should not hide behind inviolability. And it would be quite logical that the factions of Self-Help, the regions of the Kremlin Block and the Fatherland who don't vote for our proposal on Thursday to look at everyone, are doing everything they can to avoid the former urban head of Kharkiv Dobkin from the procedure, because Thursday they won't come to the hall. Instead, if we all looked at the package on Thursday, we could all ask a thorough question to the Attorney General about the grounds and the submissions that were made. Why the NAB finally protects members from coalitions who bought apartments and now sit in the hall and smooch at everyone. But we had a lot of questions so that the whole society could see the whole truth that was being created in this room. That's why I'm asking you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u118	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u119	In order for there to be no disturbance in this room, in order for there to be no blocking of the rostrum, it would be logical to finally vote on our decision to address all issues concerning the removal of the integrity of all six deputies on Thursday. After that, the regulatory committee will review the application for Dobkin tomorrow. And now we understand what Self-Help is doing, and they're trying to get rid of the Odystic region. All of it!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u120	Colleagues, please be brief. Dopkin, Opposition Block, Replica. Please. This is your minute. Very short. Dopkin. And speak the national language, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I have repeatedly stated today that I will personally vote in favour of withdrawing my parliamentary immunity. Therefore, to accuse my colleagues in the hall of being covered by someone, to continue the stupidity of the Attorney-General, who already wanted to intimidate the MPs, to make the Parliament by hand, went so far that today the Attorney-General did not come here, even though he knew that submission would be considered here. He had no opportunity to guess the decisions of the Supreme Council. And I fully agree that his conduct is an absolute disrespect for the highest legislative body in the country. I'm asking you to stop speculation and do this to your colleagues on the Supreme Council, Lucenko, so that he can come here in any condition he may be in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u122	Yes, please, help yourself now. Self-help for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u123	Please hand over George Andrew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u124	Hurry up and turn on the microphone. On the rostrum, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u125	Dear coalition! Honorable deputies and leaders of the People's Front factions and the Peter Prashenko Block! You've torn down your voices all over society today and promised that you were for removing the MP's in touch with the people who are being accused. You've run so far away from the inviolability that you've decided to move this issue, which was scheduled to be considered today, to Thursday, by saving your colleagues and allowing them not to make a decision about these deputies, the deputies of your factions. Friends, time to promise is up. It's time to do it! That's why the Attorney General has to be here right now! And Parliament must immediately remove the intrusiveness of the deputies for whom there is an appeal. Also, respectable colleagues. You have promised to remove the MP's intrusiveness, so you will never get to the point of reviewing the bill on constitutional changes. There's no time. You're guarding the election, and you have to film it today. This is how you want to remove the MP's immunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u126	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u127	That you blocked the bill, which registered 5487, which does not require 300 votes, requires 226. And the procedure for removing parliamentary immunity will be greatly simplified. And those MPs who don't need it will be able to give up on their own initiative. And, Mr. Parobius, I am addressing you. It is your responsibility to make this bill appear in the hall because you promised. We're taking down the D.A. right now!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u128	Guys, I'm only asking one thing. Avoid self - eating. And so many want to discredit the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All the factions in this Parliament have decided to vote for the removal of inviolability. I put it in the period stipulated by the law. We voted, and I am grateful to all the deputies for continuing our session. Now we're talking about whether we should work until Henprosecutor gets here or have an extra meeting. So I ask you briefly to complete the conversation and then I will announce my decision. Please, Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u129	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Today's behavior of Attorney General Lucenk has repeatedly confirmed the rightness of our team's position when we did not vote for Lucenk's appointment as Attorney-General when we did not change the law that would allow Lucenka to become Attorney-General. Lucenko abuses his office, politicizes the work of the prosecutor’s office, uses the procurator’s office as a tool for political struggle, pyar, and the construction of his own political career! Instead of protecting Ukrainians, the protection of Lucenko’s law violates the law and abuses its authority. That's why the Radical Party faction signed for the resignation of Attorney General Lucenk, and today's surrender of Lucenko to Lozov is revenge on our team for our principled stand. We demand Lucenck immediately before the House of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u130	Thank you. And that concludes the discussion. "Paternality," one minute more, and I'll announce my decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u131	Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev. Dear colleagues, the People's Front, the Peter Prashenko Block, where's the Attorney General? Where's the Attorney General? The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, where is the Attorney-General, who is obliged to carry out his constitutional duty and report to each individual national deputy? What is involved in an unexamined submission. Assemble the committee immediately. Now. Invite the Attorney General and consider the final application. The Fatherland faction has come to an end. We will vote in favour of all the submissions made by the Attorney General. Please make a constitutional commitment and allow now, here, to fulfill the obligations that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u132	So, colleagues, we exchanged. We can't have an endless discussion. We have to move on to the decision-making process, because I ask everyone to listen carefully to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Attention! I stress that the Supreme Council of Ukraine responds quickly and effectively to all challenges related to the removal of parliamentary integrity. We act harshly and solely on an active procedure. At the same time, I would like to say that we cannot begin to consider the issue of the removal of inviolability without the presence of the Attorney General. If he gets here faster, we'll be able to start this review faster than 4 o'clock. But without his presence it will be a case (please don't yell at me) that can be charged in court. We have 50 minutes until recess and we have important questions. I suggest: (a) cancel the break from 2 to 4 hours. That's my first offer. And I'm asking you to back me up. The other one. I will put to the vote the proposal to move to the constitutional court. [[B in m in s a l in]] I was told by several committees at 2 p.m. and the Budget Committee, and several committees have meetings at 2 p.m. Unfortunately, we can't do that. Colleagues, pay attention! We have the next question: this is a matter of the Constitutional Court. I want to tell you that there are a lot of rights in this question. If we go into it, we can have a rather difficult period to discuss. And I ask now that we put him to the vote so that we can exchange thoughts and vote, whether we are now going to consider the draft Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. So, Ruslan Knyazevich? Please, now I'm going to announce again after a minute of discussion and then I'm going to put to the vote a proposal, a rating vote, or we're going to consider the Constitutional Court issue so that we don't put at risk one of our basic reforms -- judicial reform. Please give me a minute, Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u133	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I understand that there is a lot of emotion going on right now. But I would like to keep trying until we get to the very important issues, but still focus on a little bit more important issues, and perhaps even more important for the country's life, particularly the extremely important bill that applies to the Constitutional Court Act. It's about creating a new actual institution on a new constitutional basis. You know, this bill has had a long history of discussions in the session room, and we've been trying to get a third time to accept it on second reading, and in general, unfortunately, the two previous attempts have been unsuccessful, and I really want to believe that we will be able to resolve this issue today. The committee as I have been removed from virtually all the discussions around the issues that lasted in the session room and relate directly to the question of the Constitutional Court. There is a pending question of the Authorized of Human Rights, a way of voting for appointment and release, but the question is more complex than a direct subject. That's why we're asking today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u134	30 seconds, please. We're done, aren't we? Please, colleagues, do we have an exchange of thoughts? In a minute. Arthur Gerasimov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, we have repeatedly said that judicial reform is one of the key to our country, we need to restore justice in the courts, we need to restore a fair situation when investors who create new jobs in the country have to be given fair decisions in the courts. That's why we support these minutes of the Constitutional Court bill, especially considering the Constitutional Court, where ordinary citizens will be able to go and address the Constitutional Court. And another point that I'd like to pay attention to. One of the factions thought about where the Attorney General was and why he was not in the room at this particular moment. But then why is the leader, more precisely the leader of this faction, knowing that today there will be so many important issues in the hall, I mean both judicial reform, and the removal of inviolability, gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u136	Please, the People's Front, Maxim Burbak. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, let's calm down and start looking at the very important issues of the reform of the Constitutional Court, and we also have very important questions today about the consideration of the changes to the budget for this year. And this faction that sank its hometown in the garbage is doing everything it can to keep people from receiving such necessary subsidies. So I can tell you that I, as the deputy mayor of the 204th constituency, have 250 people getting payments in two months from the skynergo without subsidies. Two-room apartment in Novo-Dnistrovsk, 7 000 500 gravel. So this faction sunk its hometown in the trash, feeds all of Ukraine with political garbage, and now it wants the subsidies not to get the right funds from the state budget -- it's sabotage and a break in the work of the coalition government. And we will do everything as a responsible political power: first, so that the MPs don't hide behind the inviolability; and secondly, so that our citizens can get social assistance from the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u138	Thank you. My colleagues, listen to me carefully. I will give my word to everyone. Now the key question is, are we moving on to other issues? And in particular, I'm going to put to the vote the proposal to go to the constitutional court bill. On that point, I ask you to say, two factions have said their position, who else insists on speaking? And please come into the hall, there will be a vote. Berezuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u139	Some faction leaders are not competent enough to know that people have not received subsidies because of the inadequacy of government. Because of the bad decision, not because of the Supreme Council's decision and they're getting subsidies through Rotterdam Plus, cancel it and then talk about others. Dear colleagues, there is no more important question than the trust of the nation in its power, in Parliament. There is no such confidence today because Parliament plays under the bells of the oligarchs and hides from its own responsibility. There is no point in voting on any law today, for this law will have no confidence in humans. In these laws there is mistrust among those who do not develop but destroy the state. So stand by and wait for the Attorney General, call the Attorney General here immediately, cancel the break and work. and to work until this day, until the responsibility of every deputy who is subject to this day is removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u140	Thank you. Colleagues, it's factions, one minute, and now we're going to make a decision. Very short, please finish. Please, Baby, Soboljel is very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u141	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to explain to our Ukrainians what's going on in Parliament. President Poroshenko is trying to usurp power in Ukraine, which requires a controlled parliament, an influence on the judicial branch of power, on the law enforcement authorities, and on the security services. The Codes and the Constitutional Court Act enable President Dustenk to establish a monopoly on the judicial branch of power. The garbage that Henprocuror brings to Parliament and there can be no confirmation that President Prashenko wants to make an independent, discredited Ukrainian Parliament in order to manage it manually because when the Ukrainian Parliament is destroyed, President Prashenko will establish a dictatorship. I warn Ukrainians of the danger when the President uses the prosecutor's office to discredit Ukraine and the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u142	Thank you. Final speech and in a minute there will be a vote, Soboljev, in a minute we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u143	Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland. Such cynicism, when two factions of the majority overturned Prime Minister Groysman's proposals for 11 billion grants from July 1st and did not give proper votes, and now they cry crocodile tears that people do not receive subsidies have not yet seen any government and parliament in the world. That's why don't hide under any law now Parliament has passed a decision – 223 votes, start a review of the procedure for removing the immunity of each of the people's five deputies for whom there is submission, and there is no other option in Parliament. The Constitutional Court Act is not ready for consideration, 500 amendments have not been considered on the committee and we have no chance of considering them now. So now it's the only question we have to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u144	Thank you. So, colleagues, pay attention! Once again, I would like to report that without the Attorney General, we cannot proceed to the hearing. It's going to be a violation of procedure, and then any decision can be sued. Now I want to inform you that we have the next draft of the Constitutional Court Act in order. It really has a lot of rights. The chairman of the committee, the day before, we consulted with him. We can get into his consideration only if the committee head's proposal is supported to consider it by ad hoc procedure without passing the rights. Otherwise. [[B in m in s a l in]] Otherwise, we're going to go into a discussion that might take us. That's why I'm putting this proposal into Parliament's consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Not the law! I'm making an offer: who's in charge of going to the Constitutional Court? I ask you to prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't make the law! That's why I'm voting. Rating Voting: Who is backing us now to consider the question of the Constitutional Court on the ad hoc procedure? Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Colleagues, I'm putting the committee head to the vote. Please vote. [[13:21:29]] For 165 The decision is not taken. Under these circumstances, sir, I think we can't go into consideration, we'll just fall back again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I now have the right to either announce a recess or propose to any other bill. I'll take that right. And I'm going to the hall. I would like to point out that once again, under such conditions, when we enter into a long-term discussion, we do. No, we won't be exchanging any more thoughts. We have exchanged our thoughts three times, and this can last indefinitely! I have a suggestion that we, colleagues, consider those issues that are now ready for consideration and which have general support, because I see no point in wasting the sessional time that is foreseen for our work. We have the following: the draft Decision on the calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a technical issue. Why don't you give me an explanation? The following is the question of the appointment of temporary elections in the areas. Why not assign him, colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u145	While he's gone, why don't you take a look? Colleagues, I'm going to put a few motions for a vote, if there are no votes, I'm going to call it a day. I ask everyone once again to hear the logic, we have questions on which the Supreme Council of Ukraine should make decisions. The first is the calendar plan. The next is the appointment of successive elections in a number of communities waiting for our decision. I don't understand why they should be the hostages of our decision. And that's why I'm going to put a motion on the vote now so that we can move on to these issues. And I ask you, colleagues, all to prepare for the vote and I ask you to support these proposals. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. So, colleagues, I'm proposing that we now move on to the decision to continue the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. All factions supported this position regarding the continuation of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's in the daytime, it's just two questions. Who supports us now to go to the draft decree on the continuation of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call, please vote. Please support me. Vote, vote, please support, vote. [[13:24:43]] For-161 Next. I'm betting on the vote now. The decision is not made. Next: Project Assignment of Local Elections. Colleagues, this is a series of votes. The local communities did not blame anything before the political discussions in the hall. I would like to support the proposal that we now move on to the draft decrees for the selection of out-of-order local elections. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:25:30.]] For a hundred and 194 – yes. The decision is not made. We didn't make it, did we? My colleagues, I'll put it to the vote again. Guys, I'll explain the logic. These elections are to take place in September. They cannot take place without the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We still have to find 40 minutes to vote on those decisions. Now we have a full Chamber of Deputies. Explain to me why we can't vote on these rulings right now while there's no Henprosecutor. He will not appear because we do not vote on them. Colleagues, so once again, I can't be the Supreme Council of Ukraine, her work as hostage to any political situation. That's why I'm asking you, colleagues, to support this proposal. And I'm going to give Igor Guzu another minute to get Igor Goose to justify this. Perhaps his words will convince him that he knows the situation both locally and in the community. Please, one minute, Igor Gus.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u146	Dear friends, I'd like to address you all. In this decision, there is a proposal for elections in Lutsk. This is the district center. The city’s head died. And the community of Lucca demands that the election be held on September 24. We have problems: the secretary changes, there are contradictions. The city can't be without a city head. So, dear friends, I turn to all factions: coalition, opposition -- I ask as a resident of Lutka, as a person who lives there, to support elections in the district center. That's 218 thousand people, September 24th. Lutsk needs a legitimate leader, a city head. I understand everything: Lucenka, other moments. Please vote! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u147	Thank you, colleagues. These are compelling arguments, I ask them to listen, colleagues. Please support us, because in doing so, we will discredit the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not someone else. I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm once again putting a motion to vote so that we can now move on to the draft decrees for the selection of out-of-order local elections. Please vote and please support. Please vote, please support. Please vote, please support. [[13:28:24]] For 216 Well, 10 votes. Colleagues, 10 votes. Not all of them made it. I'll put it again, just explain to me why we can't look at it now? Can anyone give any real argument? Colleagues, I ask you once again to prepare for the vote. I'll make that offer again. I see no reason for local communities to make us hostages of the political situation. I'm asking you to take up your jobs, colleagues. And I'm once again putting a motion to vote so that we can go over the draft decrees for the selection of out-of-order local elections. I ask everyone to vote responsibly. Do not make local communities hostage by political discussions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Guys, every voice has weight. Take up jobs. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote, please. Please support, we vote. [[13:29:46]] For 193 The decision is not made. And according to the Rules, as Head of the Supreme Council, I have the right to declare a recess. And I'm calling a break to consult the heads of factions and groups. And I ask the heads of factions and groups to come to my office on. According to the law, I have 15 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] At 1:50 p.m., I announce a recess to consult with the heads of factions and groups. I'd like the heads of factions and groups to come into my office. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! We concluded a fruitful and constructive discussion between the factions. To my profound conviction, it was wrong that we did not vote in favour of the appointment of out - of - turn elections to the local councils. I don't think anything was in the way. Sadly, though, that was the decision of the hall. And now we're running out of time for the morning session. And I want to announce now, at 2 p.m., the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. And I call on everyone to arrive in the Supreme Council of Ukraine at 16 o'clock with discipline. And I remind you that today we are continuing the work of the evening session to consider all the five offerings that have come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the elimination of inviolability. So I ask that you cancel all evening meetings and prepare to work in the hall until all five dishes are considered. At 16 o'clock, I'm waiting for everyone in the hall to resume our work. Thank you. I'm asking you, colleagues, but right now, from two to four o'clock, I'd like to inform you that in the action room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on culture and spirituality at: The bank, 6-8, will be shown with the creative group of the movie Red. It's a stark historical drama. And it's this film to be made for the support of the Ukrainian State Agency for Film Affairs. And I invite all those who intend to participate in the screening of the Ukrainian film, whose presentation will now take place on Banking, 6-8 on the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. Thank you. At 16 o'clock, I'll have everyone in the hall.
