ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u1	Good morning! People's deputies please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. The registration is about to begin. So let's move on to the agenda. But before that, we'll register. Please prepare for registration and register. Let's register, colleagues. [[10:06:24]] 356 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. I would like to remind you that today we have the first question about the Constitutional Court. The first is parking, and then the Constitutional Court. And the two main blocks that we're going to look at today are the tax and customs policy block, and the energy efficiency block. We have many important issues today, and I hope that we can work effectively and effectively. And I'm asking you to prepare the authors for the draft. And now I've got a statement from two factions -- Self-help and the Radical Party -- about a break. But we're ready to replace the break with a three-minute speech from the rostrum. And I give the floor to who? Andrew Lozov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u2	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. I decided to make changes to my electronic declaration and declare a unique exclusive collection. A collection of applications from the Attorney General to bring me into criminal liability and arrest. That's the third time I've been in office for less than three years. One was from Shockin, and you know what it ended up like, it's the other from Lucenka. I think it's quite obvious to everyone that bringing Attorney General Lucenck to criminalize me is a billraiser, which is revenge on our team of the Lyashka Radical Party. And it's done all the time. Recall how a year ago, on the birthday of Mr. Oleg’s mother, seven frames of the box were thrown into his home, as if they were wrong. Now we see the second of Lucenko's submission to attract me. Note that yesterday, at a meeting with Christine Lagarde, President Poshenko promised her to vote for the so-called reforms of land, pension, medical, which are anti-national and against which the Radical Party is decisively speaking. Thus, with the hands of the Attorney General, his godfather Lucenka, exerts pressure on our team, forcing us to overstep our moral values and support these anti - national reforms. I wanted to warn you that no pressure, no repression against real Ukrainian opposition, against our Radical Party will not force us to retreat and support the destruction of medicine, to support the rise of pension pressure, to support the sale of the most expensive we have, the Ukrainian land. We will continue to stand firm in our positions. What's more, Attorney General Lucenko is thus in retaliation for the fact that the Radical Party faction has not voted in favour of a law that allows a person without legal education to work as Attorney General because it's the same thing as going to a surgeon who doesn't have medical education. And that law allowed Lucenka to become the Attorney General. We didn't vote in favour of Lucenka's appointment, we didn't vote in favour of the draconian amendments to the Criminal Procedural Code, initiated by Lucenka, who took up the defense, the lawyers, and the prosecution's tyrannical powers. And we will never vote against our will, never vote against our conscience, which would not be pressure upon us. The whole faction of the Radical Party was signed long ago for the resignation of Attorney General Yuri Lucenk. This dusty Trojan horse, which continues its policy of total corruption and political repression in the Henprocurator’s Office, must go away and be responsible for its crimes. Because Lucenko has overstepped his duties, he is constantly using the Attorney-General's Office as a way of putting pressure on the politically disagreeable, as a way of personal enrichment and simply compromising the prosecution's office. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u3	Thank you. So let's move on to the agenda. We first have before us the draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislation on increasing the responsibility for parking, parking, parking, and parking of vehicles in places designated for persons with disabilities (room 5629). Yesterday we literally missed one minute of this bill, so it was transferred to today. It's a second reading, it doesn't need a specific procedure. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Protective Activities of Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u4	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues! A committee on law enforcement is being prepared for consideration in the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on increasing responsibility for violations of parking, parking, parking, and parking facilities for disabled persons (No. 5629). I would like to remind you that the project proposes to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences of the Ukrainian Law on Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, which will allow legislative protection of the rights of persons with disabilities or drivers who transport persons with disabilities to free parking in specially equipped places with road signs and markings. In particular, the Administrative Code proposes to establish responsibility: first, by stopping or parking vehicles in places designated with appropriate road signs, where only disabled drivers are allowed to stop; second, by parking vehicles in places designed to park vehicles operated by disabled drivers. The right to draw up protocols on the commission of the above-mentioned administrative offences is proposed to empower officials of the National Police and members of public organisations and persons with disabilities authorized to do so. At the executions of village, village, city councils. During the drafting of the bill, 24 amendments were made in the second reading, 12 of which are proposed to be considered by the committee and 12 proposed to be rejected. The reasons are given in the table below. So we've got a harmonized text, and we're proposing to approve the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a second-reading project and generally as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u5	Thank you. Please prepare the amendments. And I'm going to read those amendments that were rejected. 1st National Deputy Teteruk. Don't insist. 5th, Capplin. Don't insist. 7th, Missy. Don't insist. Eight o'clock, Missy. Don't insist. 12th, Teteruk. Don't insist. 14th, Capplin. Don't insist. 15th, Capplin. Don't insist. 17th, Teteruk. Don't insist. 19th, Teteruk. Don't insist. The committee carried out quality work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u6	24th, Eutusek. Eutusek insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u7	Sergey Eutuszok faction of the Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. In fact, I would like to thank both the drafters of the bill and the committee. Because we often see that in parking spaces for disabled people, even those with appropriate markings, that it is a stop or a parking lot for disabled persons, there are different Mercedes, Lincolns, and all kinds of cars that have absolutely nothing to do with the status of disabled people. My amendment was about what I wanted to predict in the Transitional Situations a transitional period of three months to allow local authorities, local authorities, to arrange additional places, to assign them to plenary sessions, to draw a marker and to anticipate these places. But instead, I'm going to say that the committee has taken a more stringent position, and the law comes right from the date of signing, publishing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u8	Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u9	Dear colleagues. I am grateful to Mr. Evtushka for, let's say, correctly assessing the need to adopt this bill and its amendment, as we've already discussed with him, it's about making changes to the Transitional Regulations of this bill. But the committee with the author has already been defined, even during the first-reading vote, we are introducing a rule on the introduction after the entry into force of his law for three months for the Cabinet of Ministers, which should bring all normative acts to the requirements of this bill. And this is exactly the three months that my colleague Mr. Sergei offered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u10	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're done here, and I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm asking both the Supreme Council Secretariat, and the factions' heads to mobilize the task force, the bill is supported by all the factions and has to find unanimous support in the hall. So we can go to the vote? We can. Colleagues, pay attention! I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the responsibility for parking, parking, parking, parking of vehicles at places designated for persons with disabilities (number 5699) as proposed. 5629, so I said 5629 at the committee's second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, we vote, please support, please vote. [[10:18:13]] For 244 The law is passed. Let's move on. We've already been through some adjustments. We move on to the next issue of the agenda, this is the draft Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine (number 6427-d). I spoke to the chairman of the committee the day before, and he said that there are 98 articles here, and that's why we can consider it as a simplified procedure. And that's why I'm going to put the committee's proposal to a vote. So I'm voting on the proposal of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice that we consider the draft Constitutional Court Act as a summary procedure. Anyone who supports such a proposal from the committee, please vote. Please be supportive. [[10:19:16]] For 128 We didn't make it. I just told you, 98 articles, 98 articles. Fellows, I'm going to put it again, if there are no votes, we're going to go full-time, it's not a problem for me. The chairman of the committee made a proposal, he had the right to make this proposal, we'll be in the room. Anyone who supports this proposal with a reduced procedure, please vote. I would like to vote on who is in favour of hearing 6427 on a reduced procedure. We vote in favour, we vote in favour. [[10:20:09]] For-140. We're going into full procedure, colleagues. And I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Prince Ruslan Petrovich, to report. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, distinguished voters! Today, on behalf of the Committee, I would like to present a proposal to the Supreme Council for the re-reading of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act at the registration number 6427-d. I will briefly remind him of his history, because this is no longer the first attempt and consideration of the full procedure, and the decision-making of the bill on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Remember, last session's parliamentary week after a lengthy discussion, unfortunately, did not make a positive decision to adopt this bill as a basis for the first reading. And instead, there were enough votes to send to the committee for the rereading of the first reading. At the same time, during the decision to refer to the committee for rereading, the committee was asked to prepare it for re-reading, taking into account the discussion that took place in the hall and, above all, the presentations by representatives of the MPs and groups, most of which stopped at. As the committee believes, on the same line of issues, what needs further discussion. And accordingly, the committee was commissioned to concentrate itself when preparing the bill for the re-reading of the first reading on these issues. For two weeks, the committee, for its part, carried out an active work to prepare the bill for its first reading, a repetitive one. I just want to remind you that the story surrounding the adoption of the Constitutional Court Act has been going on for more than six months. As soon as the constitutional changes took effect in part of the judiciary, we received the relevant bills, and for many months the committee has a working group formed by a committee decision, I lead the working group as chairman of the committee. This working group includes all members of the committee who are willing to participate in a meeting, including committee management, and members. and the heads of the subcommittees, and the members of the committee, also present at such meetings, representatives of the Supreme Council’s Office, representatives of the Constitutional Court of other interested neighbouring judicial institutions. So I can tell you that there's a rather fruitful discussion going on, and in the end, that's exactly what we've been preparing for the committee and the bill that you're looking at in the form of a re-reading. Allow me briefly to speak on behalf of the committee about the things that we've worked on and about which consensus has been found in the committee, and accordingly we want to share with you that information about these. I'm going to stop at them very briefly, and I'm going to stop at them, and I'm going to first of all to improve the competition principles for the selection of candidates for the seat of the Constitutional Court judge, both in general and in part in the work of the Constitutional Court. Once you've got the bill, you can see how qualitative it's changed in this part. The second question, too, was the subject of a discussion on the possibility of withdrawing the signature of the People's Deputy after the relevant submission was registered in the Secretariat of the Constitutional Court. We have adopted a consensus position around the fact that a national MP can withdraw his signature under constitutional application until the relevant submission is registered at the Secretariat of the Constitutional Court. He may do this while checking signatures at the Supreme Council's Office during the appropriate transmission of documents to the Constitutional Court, but in that case, if an appropriate constitutional submission has already been registered in the Secretariat. So that it doesn't happen that in some way, there might be, let's say, direct or indirect pressure on the signature withdrawal. We suggest that his claim to withdraw such a signature be considered worthless, and this signature will be valid accordingly. Next, we ruled out the congregation’s payment for a constitutional complaint. That is, once again, the court will not complain about the payment of a constitutional complaint. We removed a whole chapter on this, because it also sparked a lively discussion during a preliminary consideration of the bill and during a previous discussion in the session room. Thus, all the discussions about what has been the obstacle to accessing justice, the constitutional justice of our citizens has lost the subject of discussion, and the bill will not contain such an institution at all. As to how to find financial compensators for, let's say, technical assistance for processing complaints, I think that the Constitutional Court should have such compensators directly in the budget line, which is foreseen for it as the chief cost manager for its activities. It's a very interesting important discussion, we've had around those constitutional complaints that have been filed since the Constitution took effect, but until the time when the law will be passed. There is, indeed, a legal dilemma, you know what the problem is. The point is that the Constitution clearly states that a constitutional complaint can only be filed in the order laid down in the Constitutional Court Act. Since there is no law, however, a whole host of our citizens — hundreds more — took advantage of their constitutional rights and filed such complaints. There has been a denial from the Radical Party that we believe is fair. And I said last time in the rostrum that we would definitely find a compromise, we found such a compromise. How will this compromise look? We believe that after the validity of this law, those citizens who have submitted their constitutional complaints, the Secretariat of the Constitutional Court should be informed about them, we propose a three-month deadline to reshape the relevant constitutional complaints without returning them to the citizens. There was a problem because there had been an institution of the judicial congregation and it had to be returned to pay for it. Since we're cleaning up this institution, it makes it much easier to work on these complaints, so a person can just formally, if necessary, re-form such constitutional complaints for three months. If within three months a citizen does not consider it appropriate to bring them into conformity with this law, only then will the secretariat be able to return such a complaint and request that it be resubmitted. I mean, I think it's a compromise that deserves support. As for the constitutional complaints that have been made regarding decisions that have become effective. Before the Constitution became effective in part of the judiciary, we decided by consensus that such complaints could not be considered by the Constitutional Court because they were under constitutional regulation and should therefore be returned immediately to the subject of the appeal. Very briefly, a point that also sparked discussion about the so - called repeal of laws and the emergence of new legislation. We have rejected both the procedure that was in the law and the terms that we have set out, we have simply come together unanimously in a position that we can only reproduce 152 articles of the Constitution word for word, so that it is clear that we are not going beyond constitutional regulation, but we are clearly following those legal norms that are already contained in the Constitution of Ukraine. Finally, the position on the changes in the legal position of the Constitutional Court and its specificization has been clarified. These are questions that, as it were, we have found consensus on. The only question around which we were unable to find consensus on the committee, unfortunately, has led to the fact that the committee has not been able to take any of the decisions provided for in the Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council, has to do with the Constitutional Court itself, its legal status and the procedure for the consideration of constitutional complaints, which concerns the "Transitional Regulations" and specifically concerns the procedure of order, more specifically the Parliament's consideration and the decision on the appointment and release of the Commissioner from human rights. Since there is no committee decision around this, and the committee is unable to find consensus, we have decided to ask Parliament to make a decision in favour of Parliament itself by expressing political will. For or against this norm. Because we do not see any other obstacles to this law being passed. So we would very much ask you to uphold the law if this rule were to be removed and, in one way or another, we would agree, the committee would recommend to Parliament in general the adoption of this law in a re-first reading and in general. If not.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u12	10 more minutes, Ruslan Petrovich? Maybe 10? Question is, stay on the stand, Ruslan. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to record a question to the reporter. Three minutes. And please sign up. Zubak Lubomir Lvivitch, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u13	Please, Oleni Sotnik, the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u14	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I have two very short questions. Considering that this bill was designed to be drafted, worked by a committee, heard all the comments that had been announced during the previous session, during the previous consideration. I have a very simple question first. On what basis are the laws again included in this law, including provisions for the election of the Commissioner for Human Rights, which do not apply at all to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and its procedures? The second question concerns pension insurance, or permanent detention of judges. What is the reason why the article on 50 percent of the insurance is available again? Why are we reintroducing preferential pensions again if we're talking about there's no such thing? Still, there must be some single policy in the state regarding pension insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u15	Come on, I'll start with the other one. It'll be easier that way. The point is that the reduction to 50 percent, that was the original line, is equal to twice what was in the first line. You just compare the two bills and then it'll all be clear. As for the question of authority, I said about him. But I'd like to argue that the committee or the authors and the committee have artificially brought this rule into the Transitions. The point is that directly under the Human Rights Commissioner Act we are forced to correct in any case because now the Human Rights Commissioner is empowered to make a constitutional reference to the interpretation of laws to the Constitutional Court. After we have amended the Constitution, we have taken such a right before the Constitutional Court and handed it over to the Supreme Court, and unfortunately we have not changed the Law on the Authorized. As far as the order of election is concerned, we can't stop touching this order, because the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court and the Commissioner is one piece of the Supreme Council Rules Act, and we're forced from there.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u16	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u17	We are forced to remove the judges of the Constitutional Court from there and correct this rule. So, of course, we had to work on it naturally. Another issue is how it should look final in terms of the voting procedure. But we just can't touch it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u18	Thank you. The word for the question is Lozov. He's handing it over to Cooper. Turn on Cooper's microphone, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u19	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. The Act on the Constitutional Court does not contain anticonstitutional rules. The Constitution states that the activities and regulations of the court are governed by the Constitution and the law. The bill states that the rules of procedure of the court are adopted by a court rather than by law, which is directly contrary to the Constitution. That's the first question. The second question is about court hearings. That's what it is written that is usually written. Thus, 45 national deputies will be brought to justice. The court will say we don't want to hear you, we won't hear your position. Will they go into writing, and what will they decide? The subject of the appeal cannot even publicly declare his position and defend his legal position in court. That's why it's an offer. If written conduct is carried out, the subject’s application or appeal is in agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u20	Please, Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u21	Let's do it in a row. I want to tell you that the difference between the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Court and the Rules of the Supreme Council is essential. Because in the Constitution, the rules of the Supreme Council are stipulated as law. You know that 92 articles clearly state that only the law establishes a procedure for dealing with matters in the Supreme Council and a series of decisions of the Constitutional Court on this matter. As far as the Rules of the Constitutional Court are concerned, this should not be the law, this is not provided for in the Constitution. Accordingly, the Constitutional Court itself, as is the case in all countries of the world where there are courts or constitutional tribunals, approves its rulings by regulation. As to what you're talking about, it's basically a written procedure designed to deal with constitutional complaints. All over the world, constitutional complaints are being considered in writing. This is normal because such complaints can be considered by the Constitutional Court in a few days, if not by a few dozen. We don't know how many such complaints there will be. Another matter of constitutional references and constitutional references to recognition is that it is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution, certain laws, or laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u22	Thank you. Question time is complete. And now we're going to the next chapter -- that's the factions. I'm asking you to record the factions. From the Radical Party is Oleg Valeriovich Ljasko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u23	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The issue of functioning in Ukraine of the independent Constitutional Court is extremely important, because otherwise, if it is the Office of the President's Administration, I have a question: why spend space money on keeping judges to do the will of the President's Administration? So the Radical Party team has submitted their proposals to the relevant bill and we want to see if these proposals are taken into account. First of all, the order for the election of judges. It is suggested that the competition commission that will elect new judges of the Constitutional Court be based on the Committee on Legal Policy. With all due respect to this committee, but out of 34 members, there are 17 members of the BPT faction. So in fact, the President has a monopoly on the election of new judges. We firmly deny it. And we're proposing that this rule be removed from the bill. Next. If the judge turns out to have other citizenship, we believe that any civil servants and judges of the Constitutional Court have the same right to have no other citizenship than the Ukrainian one. There is no procedure for depriving a judge of the status of another citizen. There's also a rule in "The End of Position" about changing the order of the Human Rights Commissioner's election. We firmly deny this because it's what they want to do in manual mode, so that the buttonheads in the room can choose the Commissioner from human rights. I have a question for our esteemed President, Dusty, "Well, why do you need it all? The effect on the Constitutional Court is yours, the Attorney General is yours, the BSS is yours, the Human Rights Commissioner is yours." It reminds me of the movie "The Wedding in Malinovka," as Popandolo said, "It's mine, it's mine, it's mine, it's mine, it's mine, it's not yours." Therefore, I propose that the President act solely in accordance with the requirements of article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution, where there is an exclusive list of powers. And our President wants to direct everything: "ROSHEN" governs, "NCRECR leads, law enforcement controls, courts rule and parliament rule." Janukovich has already made his point! I also set up a monopoly and a dictatorship. We suggest we stop on this path. And the Radical Party faction will not allow President Dustyenko to usurp power in our own country. The impact on the courts is the first and direct route to usurping power. We want to have independent courts, an independent prosecutor's office, not to put our Trojan horse Lucenka as the Attorney-General, who executes political orders, in pursuit of our deputies, in carrying out real reforms of the judicial system, the prosecutor's system, all of them to one of the Darmoids to release and recruit completely new people, where Ukrainians will have the opportunity to find truth and justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u24	Thank you. From the "Fatherland" faction, Kugel gives the word to Sergey Vlasenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u25	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. You know, listening to today's report, I'm always mentioning the expression of the immortal classic of our parliamentary system of trying to instigate it. You know, for the third time, this bill is being passed to us, absolutely incomprehensible, completely reinforcing the influence of the President of Ukraine on the Constitutional Court, and they're trying, in the form of good things, to push it all through the Supreme Council's session hall, and as the chairman of the committee pointed out today, even in the first reading and in general. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich Parobius, I address you. I have rights to this law, so there can be none in general. That's the first one. The other one. My colleagues, well, I'm not saying that this bill is being tabled with a complete, total violation of the Rules, and the committee members only saw its text yesterday, and in the session room we were unable to analyze it. My committee colleagues informed me that this bill is a very interesting norm. It turns out that under certain circumstances, the Constitutional Court can go back to reviewing earlier decisions. Guys, what are we going to do with this? I understand that Peter Alexiyovich must now break the jurisprudence that is before the Constitutional Court, which does not allow him to formally usurp power, but today they are trying to change it, push it into law and allow it to continue to be decided by the Constitutional Court, as they have already decided that the next session is any other session. But this is unacceptable in a normal society. We cannot allow that under any circumstances. I'm going back to the key positions of this bill. This bill preserves, strengthens, increases the President's influence on the formation of the Constitutional Court. He's not talking about what's important right now. On the return of confidence in the Constitutional Court, on the creation of a real mechanism of constitutional justice that would allow for the balance of branches of power and the protection of Ukrainian citizens from the adoption of the President, from the adoption of the Prime Minister, from the adoption of the Sadly, though, all these fuses are cleaned. I understand that Peter Alexiovich is used to running Roshen, where one thought at all and he's in charge. So, Peter Alexiyovich, come back, run Roshen, you're good at it, you're good at it, you're making good money there, you're still making good money there. Ruschen, don't destroy the Ukrainian state, don't ruin the rest of the constitutionality that was still poured in the Constitutional Court in the person of those judges elected by this Supreme Council. By the way, I would like to point out that Prašenko did not take any steps to free those judges who helped Yanukovich to usurp power. Why? He needs hand judges, he needs those who will carry out his demands, and he also needs them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u26	Finish up, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u27	In harmony with this, he further strengthens their authority under this law. And the absolutely insurmountable thing about this law is the mandate of the Ombudsman. By the way, there's Bill 6426, which solves all the questions, but which is somehow not dealt with in this hall, probably because it was made by opposition deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u28	From the Samohelp faction Sidorovich Ruslan Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u29	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self-Help faction. Colleagues, let's stop turning Parliament into a theater of absurdity. Why is there a first - and - second reading procedure? It is necessary to ensure that the bill that Parliament and the people will receive on the way out is, indeed, qualitative, aimed at protecting the interests of people rather than individuals. Therefore, it is absolutely unacceptable to vote on the Constitutional Court Act, a real body to protect the Constitution, on the basis and in general. The other one. We agreed by voting, sending a bill for re-reading, that there would be no tails in the law. But why can't we do without the tails, why we can't resolve the issue of choosing the Authorized Person from human rights in a normal constitutional and legal way? The self-help faction divides the position on the need to bring the requirements to the Constitution and the procedure for the election of the Commissioner for Human Rights, but not in the Constitutional Court Act. Again, let's go back to solving the issues of penitentiary service, notary, executive conduct, and so on and so forth. Next. Article 91 of the Constitutional Court Act. We lose, we take away from Parliament, in fact, partly from the right of the legislator, because the Constitutional Court, not Parliament, will already recognize laws that have become invalid. We are grateful that a position has been taken on the procedure for electing the judges of the Constitutional Court in Parliament. But for us it is completely unclear why the procedure for forming a competitive commission formed by the President is completely in no way in fact regulated? Because the general notion of "experts", recognized professionals in the field of law, is completely not specific. Our position was that there should be people who did not have the position of the Anti-Corruption Act and that there should be no representatives of the President's Administration, and that the competition commission should not be manual but have the opportunity to choose the most worthy ones. And finally, most importantly, the organs of local self-governance are the orphans who are given consideration by any authority, executive, legislative or other. Further, the authorities of local self-government do not have the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court, this right is Parliament, this right is vested in the President, this right is vested in the Cabinet of Ministers, this right is vested in ordinary citizens who are tried in courts, but not in local self-government. So why is the Ukrainian State so afraid of local self - government? So the Self-Help faction can't support this bill because it's not meant to restore trust in the Constitutional Court and it's not meant to form a body that can protect the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u30	Thank you. From the Opposition Block is Dobrenkov Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u31	Respectable Ukrainian citizens, respected colleagues! Hereinafter, a bill is being considered that is called upon to bring the work of the Constitutional Court to order. But unfortunately, the very conceptual principles that are based on the activities of this single body of constitutional jurisdiction are wrong. Since the changes voted in the plenary room, the changes to the Constitution, do not remove the conflict of interest that will always be present in the work of this constitutional body. The point is that the cornerstone of this body’s activities is the principle of forming the body’s composition. It is the involvement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine that determines the main struggle to influence this constitutional body. This law will not change what law we are considering now, during the re-first reading period, or the law of opposition referred to in this room, we need to move away from the changes in the Constitution, namely the order of appointment of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is politically motivated. Because those who are recommended to serve as judges of the Constitutional Court under the quota of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are the main requirement of political loyalty. Why should the President differ from the Supreme Council of Ukraine? He also selects individuals for personal, perhaps political loyalty. But the result of this procedure is terrible, unfortunately, there is no independent Ukrainian Constitutional Court in Ukraine now, perhaps some influence that was before, but it has survived and now, why? Once again, the main problem is the appointment of judges to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The faction "The Opposition Block" refers not only to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, but also to the written fact that we have submitted more than 15 constitutional submissions, because of the unconstitutional recognition of both laws as a whole and parts of them, which in fact violate the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens who are antisocial. Which violates the constitutional right to adequate public security, pension insurance, to cancel the increased state security at the birth of a child, to tax pensions, we also filed a constitutional application. In addition to negative decisions, no decision has been taken by the Constitutional Court. We call for immediate consideration and cancellation of that large part of the legislative initiatives that have been adopted by this Supreme Council, this coalition that do not meet the interests of Ukrainian citizens and society. So please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u32	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u33	We urge the Constitutional Court to act within the framework of the Constitution to prove, indeed, that this body, which is equivalent to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, from the President of Ukraine, and its activities are specifically aimed at ensuring the interests of citizens. In particular, according to the constitutional statements made by the opposition faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u34	Thank you. From. Pisarenko, 3 minutes from the faction. from the Rebirth Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u35	Thank you, Your Honor Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! What are we looking at today? We're looking at the continuation of our constitutional reform in part of the system. Let me remind you, a year ago, you and I approved the changes to the Constitution. And for a year now, you and I have been unable to adopt basic laws that will regulate both the activity and, in general, the judicial system and the work of the Constitutional Court. Should this law be approved? Of course you do. So far, we don't have any constitutional mechanisms to implement those positions that you and I put in the Constitution a year later. There are, indeed, very good things, today citizens get more rights to defend their interests in our country. But we've always approached the bill with one goal, so that we'll have honor and within the existing Constitution, so that we don't shove in constitutional bills something that doesn't apply to the subject of such bills. Why, then, did this bill again raise the issue of the Commissioner for Human Rights? You don't have to burden the bill with the fact that it doesn't go to the subject. Today, there is a problem. I want to tell you one interesting fact, you and I have voted here on the first reading of the procedural codes and today there is a vote under the Constitutional Court Act, so both of these bills have not been given a decision by the profiling committee. We were unable to agree within the committee to vote on the recommendation as to how to vote in the session room. This suggests that even in a professional committee that cares about this issue, there is no unity in what to do with this bill. That's why we've always talked about having to be professional about this kind of impeccable bill. What we're talking about is that we need to throw out what doesn't apply to the bill at all, what my colleague Sergey Vlasenko said here, I want to say again, there really are some norms in the bill that we haven't even discussed and discussed on the committee yesterday that they shouldn't be here. When the Constitutional Court can change its legal position in the event of a substantial change in the regulation or the existence of objective grounds for improving the protection of constitutional rights and freedoms, and so on and so forth. The Constitutional Court can't be held under any kind of authority. instructions from other organs and change their positions without changing the Constitution. So, dear colleagues, if we come to consensus with you to make an independent professional constitutional body, we will support you, and so far, on the first reading, we have much work to do with the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u36	Thank you. Colleagues, or all factions and groups, spoke out, who had the wish? They're all here. Let's move on to the next chapter, this is a speech by the national MPs. And I'm asking you to record a performance by the National MPs. It's 15 minutes, I remind you. Vadim Victorovich, Peter Prashenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u37	I give the word to the Pigeon.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u38	Thank you. Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. April 11, June 8, June 22. These are the dates of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of the eighth vocation when the bill was considered. But there's the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is direct. Part two of article 107) says that during the same session the Supreme Council cannot consider a bill that is completely or essentially repeated earlier rejected. On April 11, I recall that the bill was rejected. But is it less important to adopt a law that deals with constitutional justice? Yes, of course you do. But let's not put a bomb on slow action when we now adopt a bill that will procedurally fail to comply fully with the rules of existing legislation, allow in the future the Constitutional Court to repeal the prescribed law, to declare it unconstitutional in connection with the breach of the procedure of adoption, and we will have a legal collapse when there is no previous Constitutional Court Act or new Constitutional Court Act. With regard to ensuring the right of citizens to a constitutional complaint. Dear colleagues, this is, in fact, the registered bill of my colleagues, the Yemeni, the Vlasenka and the Sotnik. Let's adopt this bill, settle this issue and really start reforming constitutional justice. And to you, Andrew Volodymyrovich, I have a request. I don't know how to say this. You, on the other hand, are concerned with reforming parliamentaryism and reforming procedural points in Parliament. Well, if we can afford to violate the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Council Rules, which contains mandatory rules on the inability to consider this bill, let's be honest and frankly say that if we allow ourselves to cynically disregard the rules of an imperative that does not allow any ad hoc procedure and derogation from this procedure, let's completely repeal this Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council and work in the usual regime as we do now. So, dear fellows, let us be open with you to the end. I call on my colleagues to return to the Constitutional Complaint Act, to accept it as a basis, to initiate constitutional justice reform. And to the Constitutional Court Act, to return when we are allowed to have active legislation, that is, at the next session. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u39	Thank you. Wojciecki Victoria Mikhailna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u41	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Well, colleagues, well, you can't go on like this, every once in a while, breaking the rules and especially in such important laws as the Constitution and the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I'll do it again. People's deputies, we're not the world's rulers. We have to act within the framework of the law. And the basic law for us after the Constitution is the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it turns out that an important system law is actually now being adopted completely with the violation of existing legislation. What will that mean? To date, there is minimal confidence in the Constitutional Court. Minimum confidence in the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. When do parliamentarians adopt a law that violates the basic procedural law, the Rules, what can be the question of restoring trust? Now with regard to the standards of this bill. Well, first of all, I'm going to the coalition. Please, there is no need for systemically important, fundamental laws to solve the problems of distrust among themselves. Why did the choice of the Commissioner for Human Rights arise? I'll explain. Mr. Knazevitch didn't say that. This is because you do not want to vote in secret because you do not trust each other. Because you want to see that you will not be misled by the Peter Dusty Block during the vote in favor of the Human Rights Commissioner of the People's Front. Here's the question. This is not a matter of settling these points and of settling them against the constitutional, in line with the new rules in the Constitution on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And the last. This norm, which has emerged, I don't know, from whose reformist hand or initiative, as it turns out that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine will not follow the Constitution, which should actually be their main guide in how to make decisions. Because it will be the last instance for humans when lawlessness is complete, they will refer to the Constitution and appeal to the Constitutional Court. Thus, when you make a rule that the Constitutional Court can change its position in some way in connection with a change in legislation, it is an exclusive tool for the authorities to influence in fact and to allow themselves to justify their illegal actions. Therefore, please do not use or further destroy the trust that does not exist before the Constitutional Court today, nor do we need to violate the Rules. And please renew your confidence in Parliament. Do not destroy it permanently in humans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u42	Weaving Hennady Vitaliyovich, The Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Souslow Irina Mikolayovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, in paragraph 9.8 of the “Transitional Regulations” of the bill, there are rules that change the procedure for the election of the Authorized Human Rights Council. It says that the Ombudsman will be elected, not by secret ballot, but by an open vote. I believe that we are obliged to rule out this norm, otherwise we can totally discredit the office of ombudsman. I remind you that there has been a secret ballot for the Authorized Human Rights Commissioner for more than 20 years since he began his work. The procedure was studied in accordance with international standards by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, who approved it. This would result in a loud international scandal and public claims against Ukraine by the United Nations, the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe. A secret vote is a guarantee of appointment as an Ombudsman of an uninvolved person who will be responsible not only for formal criteria but also for the spirit of the law. An open vote will turn an authorized political figure into an institution, making it a toy in the hands of politicians. As a member of the Committee for the Protection of Human Rights, I ask all colleagues to show principle, as the committee did yesterday, and to be professional, and to exclude this rule from Bill 6427-d, the election of the Ombudsman. This will finally allow the reform of the Constitutional Court to be implemented and preserve the independent and authoritative status of the Commissioner for Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u45	Thank you. Kostenko Pavel Petrovich, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u47	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Now, what does self-help specifically offer in this case. Indeed, the key for us right now is that changes to the Constitution gave citizens the opportunity to file a constitutional complaint. And in this part, we can't block the possibility for a citizen to go to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and defend his rights, especially considering that today the judicial reform has not yet taken place and that the courts do not actually act for an appointment, i.e. do not protect the rights of the people. Accordingly, we believe that our bill, which was submitted and registered earlier in the case under consideration, 6426, was passed in May. Please, we've offered this to our colleagues, it's fully in line with the Rules, it's necessary. It's included in the agenda, it needs to be voted in this room on the basis, and before we actually go on vacations, give people the opportunity, a practical tool to address a constitutional complaint to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Moreover, this bill fully foresees all the necessary points. He establishes both the grounds for the appeal, and in fact the grounds for the refusal, and the consequences of the legal, and clearly regulates the format and written conduct and oral conduct, that is, he prescribes all the necessary regulations, including those defined by the Constitution as a requirement. That's what parliamentarians are supposed to do -- protect people, give them opportunities, give them tools to protect their own rights. So please, colleagues, once again I urge you not to violate the Rules, to consider the existing bill concerning the constitutional complaint, 6426. And this bill, after discussion, after exclusion from there, is a really destructive rule, an exception, particularly the rule that I said, on the possibility of changing the positions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to consider how this is provided by the Rules in the autumn session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u48	Hire Mustafa, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u49	Oleni Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u50	Please, Olena Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u51	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. First of all, I want to thank the Head of the Supreme Council for the full procedure. I know that this law has been tried, including by a reduced procedure, it is very important and important to consider it fully. Thank you. Now, essentially, colleagues. Why is this law under consideration for the third time, even though the rule of the Rules does not allow it, even though the Supreme Council should not support it for the third time, and has not supported it twice, and has not returned it to the committee? Because the President wants to make a "handsome" Constitutional Court. That's the first reason. And including for such issues as cancelling the moratorium on land manually through the Constitutional Court is trying to do so. And secondly, because the police really don't trust each other, and here, unfortunately, the non-existence of this coalition has made the coalition itself hostage to its own non-existence and have to trade positions and negotiate. And from here is a totally shameful norm in the Constitutional Court Act that changes the order of election of an ombudsman or an authorized human rights officer in a totally unnatural and unhealthy manner. Colleagues, it has already happened that we do not have confidence in politicians, but at least we must maintain and restore trust in the institutions of power. Because if we lose confidence in any institution of power, the Ombudsperson, the CEVC, the Accounting Chamber, the Supreme Council committees, the newly created NAMC or the NABU, then we'll actually lose the state, and the state will be built on healthy and effective institutions of power. So far, the coalition is called because of its challenges and the agreement to put a person from the People's Front on the Ombudsman and to put a person from the WFP in the Court of Auditors, because of other arrangements, they are ruining the actual procedure for the selection of non-political, independent institutions of power for all ages, because the secret vote for the Ombudsman, which is envisioned in all civilized countries, is precisely saying that he is a guarantor of the Ombudsman to be an independent political man and not a representative of the political faction and not a politician at all. And here, colleagues, I'm even more perplexed than the Constitutional Court Act, which we're actually considering by procedure, by violation of the Rules. I'll give you just a few examples. For example, in the European Union, according to the Maastricht Treaty, the Ombudsman elects Parliament by secret ballot. In most European countries, an ombudsman chooses to vote in secret. In Scandinavia and Sweden, where the word ombudsman came up, and it was invented in 1700 years ago, in 772, an ombudsman is elected, not by politicians, but by lawyers and defenders who were never MPs, and so on for 300 years. I also want to tell Ukrainian citizens that on May 12, 2017, the European Network of National Human Rights Institutions, which brings together 40 European ombudsmen, addressed the Human Rights Committee and Parliament, and said that, unfortunately, the process of selection and appointment of the Ombudsman is now sensitive to politics and is opaque in Ukraine. And it's because of the secret ballot that we have to renew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u52	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u53	Not to kill, in general, the Ombudsman's Institute to kill the reputation of the state, to kill trust in this institution, and to kill any trust from our European partners to Ukraine. So please return the law to work again and rather reject it, and adopt another Constitutional Complaint Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u54	Thank you, colleagues. And the closing statement by Rybczyn Aleksei Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u55	I'll pass it on. I'm asking you to give my word to my colleague Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u56	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u57	Yuri Odarchenko faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the changes to the Constitution that have been adopted in this room have provided a key point: ensuring that citizens have access to the Constitutional Court with such a thing, an instrument such as a constitutional complaint. But unfortunately, I'm very sorry that the bill, which is going to be the basis for protecting the constitutional rights of citizens, was actually used, in fact, solely to address the question of usurping power in the Constitutional Court, focusing the President's influence on the Constitutional Court, to address issues that are now of interest to the authorities. And including the question of selling land to farmers. I am convinced that after the adoption of this law, the first decision of the Constitutional Court will be the decision to abolish the moratorium on the sale of land and to accept the constitutional sale of land for agricultural purposes. This will be the first decision he will make. And the main real purpose of this law is to legitimize this decision, because the President sees that it will not pass through Parliament, so he creates appropriate tools. The great work of people who really wanted to improve the bill and correct a large number of shortcomings was wasted because it was impossible to support a bill whose purpose was to sell land. I'm talking about article 36 of the bill, which states that "constitutional complaints are being considered by the Senate." Attention, fellow officers! At the same time, the Senate is competent if there are only six judges in the Constitutional Court, so six judges will be able to make any decision. With this rule, the President of Ukraine will be able to reverse Ukraine's Land Code for a Moratorium for Sale without the real support of most judges, 6 judges will take a decision instead of 18, and it will be impossible to review the Senate's decision in principle, that is, even if most of the Constitutional Court opposes the sale of land, they will not be able to annul the decisions of 6 Senate members who will be fully controlled by the authorities. In addition, once again the unresolved question of how to deal with requests for redress is that the withdrawal is dealt with in accordance with the established rules, which are contrary to the Constitution as to the existence of this regulation. Dear friends, despite the fact that the committee has taken into account a large part of the amendments that have rectified part of the technical flaws of the bill, I am forced to urge my colleagues not to support the bill, the vote "yes" is the vote for selling the land of the salt-spang agenda. The election must be conscious, any MP who, the electorate must be conscious.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u58	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u59	Any MP who supports this bill supports Ukraine's land of agriculture by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u60	Thank you, colleagues. Thus, the time spent on public speaking is exhausted. And here's the closing statement of the committee head, Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich. Better than the podium, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I will try to summarize, at least on behalf of the committee, the discussion and, if I may, lay down some emphasis that may help us avoid some denials from the deputies and from individual factions and groups. On the other hand, once again, there was the accusation that I was misleading and did not tell the truth about the authorized person. I insist once again on this, of course I appreciate the experience of the Nordic countries, I appreciate the experience of other European countries, but I also appreciate the Constitution of Ukraine and the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court's decision clearly states that the Supreme Council of Ukraine can make any decision only in the plenary room. This decision has led to what we have had to do in this part of the Rules to put this rule out of effect with regard to the election of ballots to the Head of the Supreme Council, and I remind you that there was once such a rule, the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. Remember, there's a "joy" at the end of the '90s and 2000, when we had a Spikeriad in connection with that vote and we couldn't get to work for months, maybe someone just forgot? From the young MPs, they probably studied at school, they don't know the story, I think the experienced can tell them. What about the fact that the committee, in fact the constitutional and legal committee, was supposed to do? He could not have done otherwise than the requirement of the Constitution to abide. This is a question of the session room, how will it politically address this issue? But a professional committee would be useless if it allowed a clear interpretation of the Constitution and a clear reference to the Constitutional Court's decision. The question as to me is political and let's not politicize the committee, but to politicize, as appropriate, the session hall, it's designed for that. Our committee is still legal and, thank God, we have no political discussions within the committee, we have only the legal language to resolve legal issues. Next question: For the record. There was a denial here from the Radical Party that the committee should not authorize a competition commission. The point is that this rule existed in the original edition, but then there was a denial of, you know, both the Chief Legal Authority, and many other experts who couldn't fail to exercise this authority by impeding that there was a clear requirement of the Constitution that all of us, without exception, should get a proper assessment of the committee in Parliament. I understand the concern around the fact that the committee can politicize this problem, and the committee wouldn't want to get that kind of authority, so to speak, because it understands that there are going to be such accusations under any circumstances. But in this bill we came, I think, to a clever, common denominator of the next act, we proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u62	I'll continue now, Mr. Ruslan, and I'll give you some time. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that in two or three minutes there will be a vote for the bill, so please invite everyone to the Hall and the Supreme Council Secretariat to report and the heads of factions, please inform the deputies that they will arrive at the Hall and take up jobs. Please, Mr. Ruslan, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u63	We agreed that the committee would not be a competitive commission, and in fact, the competition committee would be a session hall, and the committee would have to have exclusive technical powers. Assemble those documents that will come to him and send them to the session room to make appropriate political decisions. There are no other decisions regarding admission or non-admissibility, the corresponding candidates for the party out of the session room the committee can't take. Its mandate is solely, as in the case of an authority to carry out a technical examination of the conformity of the candidates with the requirements of the Constitution and the Constitutional Court Act. What is it? Well, for example, if age is not enough. This means that we have to stop immediately by our decision the further movement of this person in the competition. Or, for example, he doesn't have the appropriate vocational education, or he doesn't have the right job experience -- it's on the surface of things that we can do. Yet, given that this is going to be fractional, I personally do not allow any faction to see these things in itself, of course, it will see it, and on the original level it will already be dissipated. So there's not going to be any authority left on the committee at all to collect everything it's got from factions and groups and just automatically pass it on to Parliament. Here you can talk about the names of the committee heads, the committee members, but they'd want to do absolutely nothing, and the names of the committee and the names of the people who work here will now work for the future, make it impossible for most of the committee to have any political influence on factions that, for example, do not belong to the majority or will not belong in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u64	Thank you, colleagues. All right. Please give one more minute, there were many questions, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u65	Since Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko addressed me, I answer, Oleg Valeriovich, I have just explained why we insist on leaving the committee. Because if we remove a committee, we're giving the prospect of considering the procedure that we put in place that is contrary to the Constitution, so that we don't give anyone too much of an argument, so to speak. I'd like to leave as order is, and at the same time, simplify any passage through the committee of documents. The committee should receive them and recommend to Parliament to consider them, and Parliament will put everything in place by way of a rating vote. Thank you very much, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u66	Thank you. So, colleagues, we've been going over the full procedure of the draft Constitutional Court Act, and now I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall and take up jobs. During the discussion, in fact, all the most acute problems of the bill were discussed, but they could be worked out between the first and the second readings. All who have been amended, all who have been warned, can be made between the first and the second readings of the bill. So I'm asking everyone to take their jobs, and I'm asking the factions to invite their deputies into the hall, and we're moving on to making a decision. So I'm voting on the draft Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine (number 6427-d) as a basis. Please vote. Please support the base of 6427-d. Please vote, please support. [[11:21:21]] For 231 Decision taken. Don't you have to cut to the second reading? [[Noise Nodes]] You don't need a cut? [[Noise Nodes]] Okay. Colleagues, we are now moving on to the next agenda item, which is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. I'm asking you, colleagues, we have high mobilization, everyone stay put. Thus, the first is the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to prevent excessive pressure on public oversight (control) to enforce labour legislation and employment. — Number 6489. Colleagues, it's just a proposal to get into the agenda of a day session. Please vote and please support. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[11:22:32]] For the 250. Decision taken. The next, colleagues, is proposed to include in the agenda of the day's session a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2017 (No. 6600). So please support the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of Law 6600. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:23:11]] For 243 Decision taken. Colleagues, I wanted to ask if there was any support in the room for us to look at it today. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me put it. Whoever supports the proposal for us to consider it today, draft Law 6600, please vote. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:23:45]] For-161 The decision is not made. All right, guys, let's do it again. If it's necessary, I'll put it again. Let's move on. Colleagues, pay attention! Attention! Next. Next. Draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning 19 articles of the Rules (No. 6281). I'll remind you. It's about canceling break 12:00-12:30. And we made a preliminary agreement that we could only do it on Thursdays. And that's just getting into the agenda of the day session. Please vote and please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. It's just a turn-on. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:24:43]] For 190 The decision is not made. Next up, colleagues. Draft Decree on Amendments to the Ukrainian Supreme Council Regulation on the provision of the activities of the Ukrainian people's deputies (6525). I want to inform you. It's about consulting counselors who are preparing bills for the people's deputies to raise social protection (6525), it's for those people who are preparing a legislative basis for each of you to be able to improve social protection. I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. I ask you to vote and I ask you to support the Bill of Decree 6525. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support your colleagues. [[11:25:45.]] For 255 Decision taken. Colleagues, by the way, have a proposition. It's a very short law. For us to consider it today too, there is an offer. Come on, colleagues, who would like us to consider the bill of Decree 6525 today, please vote. Please be supportive. Support me, colleagues, to look at it today, it's very short, 6525. Let's vote for it today, colleagues. Please support, we vote. It's very short, it's very simple. [[11:26:26]] For 240 Decision taken. Let us consider it today. Next: Draft Act amending Chapter II of the Final Position of the Law of Ukraine (No. 6538). Just getting into the daytime session, colleagues. Only integration into the agenda of the day session (6538) "For the development of the aviation industry" in support of the aviation sector. Please only support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, vote, colleagues. Please support, we vote. Keep it up, fellas. [[11:27:13]] For 257 It's a victory. So the next one is 6515 and 6515-1. A few deputies approached me, asking me very much. This is a draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 and Appendix No. 4 to the State Budget Act 2017" (for the provision of constitutional rights of citizens for housing). Who supports the inclusion of it in the agenda of the day session, only in the agenda of the day session, please vote so that the committee can consider it. Please support, we vote. Vote. [[11:27:56]] For 278 Decision taken. I'd like to have a constructive look at the committee. Next: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Voluntary Integration of Territorial Communities on the voluntary integration of territorial communities of villages, settlements into territorial communities of cities of regional importance (No. 6466). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, just the sessions. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[11:28:37]] For 227 Decision taken. Colleagues, besides, are next. 6120: Draft Act amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports. I ask you to maximize your mobility and support culture and sport. 6120, scheduled for the day session. Please vote. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. [[11:29:19]] For 233 Decision taken. Next. Now, just a second. And then we have 6534 and 6534-1. Thus, the draft Law on Amendments to Article 133 of the Tax Code of Ukraine (to ensure the introduction of pension funds into the Register of Nonprofit Institutions and Organizations). 6534 and 6534-1. Include only in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:30:16.]] For 231 Decision taken. The next one is 5314. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the regulation of road safety relations. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote and support. Please be supportive. [[11:30:54]] For 231 Decision taken. And the next is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of the Accounting Centre in the servicing of financial markets contracts (No.6539). Include in the agenda of the day session. Let's take a look. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:31:29]] For 171 And it went so well. And on the last bill. Colleagues came to us to avoid rhythm, Prime Minister of Ukraine Volodymyr Borisovich Groysman came to the Council. Hello. [[Applause]] Now, Vladimir Borisovich, I'm going to give him my word, because he insists that we review the draft Budget Act today. Let us hear the convincing arguments of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Prime Minister of Ukraine, who has been elected, will ask. I give the floor to Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groisman of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u67	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished deputies! First of all, I want to thank you for including the day-to-day review of changes in the budget. Given that this is a very important document, which provides for a rhythmic funding of subsidies for Ukrainian citizens, salary in the defence sector, funding of salaries for doctors, financing of the Free Medicine program, many other important projects. I would very much ask you today to decide that this bill should be considered today, and it awaits millions of Ukrainians waiting for their funds from the state budget. So I would like to ask you very much to support this consideration today. Thank you so much for your understanding and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u68	So, colleagues, I'm asking you once again with the proposal that we review the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2017 today. And I would like to emphasize that there are issues relating to Ukraine's national security that relate to the financing of Ukrainian special divisions. And I think it'll be the right thing to do if we don't drag it off. So I ask everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs and prepare for the vote. Please take up jobs. So, are you ready to vote? So, are your colleagues ready? So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the proposal that we take a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2017 into consideration today, as I understand, after lunch, right? Today. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Voting, supporting. Please vote. [[11:34:42]] For the 250. Decision taken. And, colleagues, in order not to move away from those questions immediately, we voted that today's consideration would be draft regulation 6525. Come on, it's short. Let's take a quick look at it. Is Pinzenic in the hall? Yes. I ask for your support (6525) on a reduced procedure. Please support me. [[11:35:23]] For 218. 218th. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u69	Dear Head, dear colleagues. Your opinion is on the draft Ordinance (registration 6525) amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance "On Ensuring the Activities of the People's Deputies of Ukraine". It was introduced by our Committee on Rules. It is proposed to amend section III, paragraph 4, of the Supreme Council Order of Ukraine to ensure the activities of Ukraine's national deputies until the year 94, which has not been repealed until now, is valid. It is appropriate to determine the exchange of the pay fund for assistant consultants of the National Deputy. Thus, according to this editorial, which is now valid, the size of the payroll fund is determined from the two monthly pay funds of the National Deputy member of the committee, without taking into account the premium of 25 percent. Colleagues, we don't have a bonus long ago. And this rule of law just takes away from the funding of the pay fund for assistant consultants 25 percent without any reason. Next. That's why it's suggested that these words "without taking into account the non-existent prize" from the text of the decree be taken away, and thus allow our accountants to account for the wages of the assistants of the national deputies in the full range of the budget assignments for the current one and for every subsequent year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u70	Thank you. Please hold the recording. Two-to-one, two-to-one.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u71	Colleagues, pay attention! You have the right to speak for 10 seconds very briefly. Okay, I won't. Are you saying that Volodymyr is insisting on the performance? No, it's not. The arrow doesn't insist. Ichenko insists? No, it's not. She doesn't insist. So we're going to make a decision, and I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and get ready to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I implore you to take up your jobs. Mr. Stephen, ask the deputies to take up their jobs. Once again, I ask the national deputies who are at the government table to take up their jobs. So I'm putting to the vote a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the provision of the activities of the people's deputies of Ukraine (number 6525) as a whole. Please vote, please support, vote, colleagues, please support. [[11:38:55]] For 251 It's been decided. Now, colleagues, we're going to tax and customs policy, our first block today, we've been going to it for a long time, but we've been able to get to it at 11:39 and so at least one law we can consider before the break. Maybe we'll cancel the break? What do you say? Let's try it. Look, I'm in the lobby alone, and I promise to hold out until two o'clock. I'm voting a motion to cancel the 12:00-12:30 break in today's job, just today's job. Please vote and please support. Vote, fellows! Please support cancelling the break. [[11:39:51]] For-174 And I was ready for this feat, but the hall wasn't ready. We move on to the first issue of tax and customs policy. So the first question is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine (4646-d). And I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it with a reduced procedure, please support me, colleagues, please support me. [[11:40:34]] For 169 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Tax and Customs Committee of South Carolina's Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 15 June considered a draft of the Act amending the Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine (for the improvement of certain provisions) (registration number 4646-d). Dear colleagues, in furthering the provisions of the two bills, are taking into account all their constructive work and have been thoroughly worked out by their individual positions, namely, the proposed new definition of the term of an enterprise that is of social interest. Such subjects will be businesses, issuers of securities, and securities admitted to trading. So not all public equity companies, insurance companies, not state pension funds, other financial institutions will be enterprises that are of social interest only if the criteria set for medium-sized and large enterprises are met. This will greatly expand the market for domestic audiences because it will narrow down the number of enterprises of social interest and, as a result, reduce the number of subjects whose audiences are required to meet the stringent requirements of the required audit. Taking into account the provisions of EU Directive No 34, it is proposed to release micro and small enterprises from reporting on governance. Medium-sized enterprises have the right not to be included in the report on management of so - called non-financial information. In terms of the category of enterprises, especially enterprises that are of social interest, defined approaches to filing and publishing financial reporting, the date of publication of financial reporting is clarified. The bill's position is completely agreed upon.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u73	Please, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u74	Implemented requirements of Directive 34 and international financial reporting standards in part of consolidated financial reporting, specifying that they are based on national or international accounting standards. Consolidated reporting requirements do not extend to small groups of enterprises. Also in the drafting of the bill were the changes to Ukraine's Accounting Act, which were adopted earlier and are already laws of Ukraine. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Change in the Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting (Registration No. 4646-d), introduced by the National Deputies of the Committee and other National Deputies, and to adopt it as a basis for further further further further elaboration of the second reading by a reduced procedure, since the law will take effect on 1 January and on all subjects.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u75	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u76	Please make a second decision today and on a simplified procedure, since the law should provide time for all subjects to prepare for the new year and to reorganize all accounting programs and get to know each other more fully.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u77	Thank you. So let's do the recording: two in, two in, two in. Olena Babak, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u78	Aunty Ostrikovy, please pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u79	Mrs. Tetjano, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! This is really an important law for our accountants. It aims to improve accounting and financial reporting, taking into account the requirements of international standards. It is also important in the context of bringing our legislation closer to the EU's right, because the law includes part of the provisions of the new European Union Financial Reporting Directive. According to the chairman of the committee, the project has been developed and proposed new definitions of enterprises of social interest: freed from reporting to micro and small enterprises. Regarding the shortcomings that may be developed in the second reading, it is necessary to clarify the position of head accountant of an enterprise that is of exclusive interest to three specialists: an accountant, an auditor, an auditor. This limits the rights of other experts in the field of finance. But this can be worked out. So our faction will support this bill. However, dear colleagues, will this bill resolve all the issues that our accountants face? Yesterday June 20th was the last day of filing a tax return on the added value I had a hot phone from the calls of the accountants because the tax returns were not accepted, the systems were hung up, the servers were hung up, the first receipt came in, the number one withdrawal for the registration of the declaration, the payer's electronic office is empty, the second ticket is not coming. So is it worth reconfiguring the company's accounting system, or maybe you need to redesign the tax servers and the IT systems of the State Fiscal Service. When this manual regime of bullying our accountants stops, they sit until night waiting for confirmation from the DFS that a tax declaration will be accepted. The same is true of the registration of tax notes, in manual mode. They think the DFS registers the back number and then comes the information literally in manual mode. That's why we're going to support this bill, but first, we need to redesign the DFS systems, not the system.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u81	Thank you. I give my word. Pavelko Andrey gives the Hen a word for the performance. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u82	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The Peter Prashenko faction will certainly support this progressive bill in the first reading. It is designed for the active help and support of our European partners. It has been developed by a large number of brilliant experts and experts in our Ukrainian environment. The main task of this law is to improve and bring European standards closer to accounting and financial reporting in Ukraine. To this end, the editor proposes to complete the list of definitions, in particular, the term "expenditure", such as the "report of payments in favour of the State", "enterprises of social interest" and many other progressive things. This will enable the establishment of new transparent requirements, according to international financial reporting standards to state-owned enterprises and also to extractive industries, and this has not been the case, it has not been the money, and these reports can be made available electronically, making it much easier to work with documents and creating a convenient mechanism to publish financial reporting. Dear colleagues, this bill will facilitate the further integration of Ukrainian entrepreneurship into European space and will help in further cooperation with the European Union, these are new opportunities for the Ukrainian market. Once again, my point is that our partners in the European Union are not just supporting this decision, but working directly with us, this is our joint acquisition. We vote unanimously in the first reading and follow the reduced procedure of voting for the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u83	Thank you. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that this is the final closing statement on this issue. In two minutes, we're going to vote. So please invite everyone to the hall and please inform the MPs as much as possible that in two minutes there will be a decision to make. Please, Gusak Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, the Honourable Head, the faction of the Opposition Block welcomes the fact that Parliament is finally considering issues related to the work of the Ukrainian economy. The last time we've had a sad trend, we've had another 6 percent drop in industrial production in April. And we already have this negative dynamic from January to April, we have minus 2 percent relative to the very low base of the previous year. And I think the results of the first half of the year are going to go down in gross domestic product, despite the government's triumphant relationship. But it is a good thing that Parliament is considering economic laws. And yesterday, for example. Not yesterday, but on Tuesday night an important investment bill by issuers of securities was adopted only by the votes of our faction, when the coalition deputies, as always, were no longer in the hall at the end of the day. Sadly, though, this bill does not meet the stated prices. I would like to point out to all the deputies that for all businesses with more than 250 employees, this bill introduces additional reporting. Ukraine is ranked 80th in the Doing Business rating, which is a very low place. We're talking about deregulation all the time, and at the same time, we're introducing additional reports. Moreover, the classification of enterprises adopted in this law does not correspond to the Ukrainian Master Code. Why are we introducing a new classification in every law? To confuse the accountants away and clean? So our faction will not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u85	So, colleagues, let's move on to the decision-making process, and I ask everyone to take up their jobs and go into the hall. I ask you to invite everyone into the hall, and ask the factions' heads to help maximum. I'm going to have to get the deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u86	That's how MPs come in, I see. They're just going through the columns. Can we move on to making a decision? [[B in m in s a l in]] So I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine (for the improvement of certain provisions) (No. 4646-d) as a basis. Just for the basis. Please vote. Please be supportive. Voting, voting, colleagues. [[11:52:54]] For 215 Colleagues, I'll put you back. Invite MPs. I'll be back. Please show by factions. I very much ask everyone to come into the hall and work and vote during the sitting, not to hold political discussions. Please take up your jobs. I'll be right back. I ask everyone to participate carefully in the vote. So I'm proposing a draft law, going back to the basis of draft Law 4646-d. Please return to 4646 d. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, support. Please be supportive. [[11:54:37]] For 241 We're back. 241 – yes. Decision taken. And now draft Law 4646-d as a basis. Please be supportive. Please vote on the basis. Please be supportive. [[11:55:01]] For 245 Decision taken. Colleagues, pay attention! Oh, for short of second reading. Please support the simplified procedure for second reading. Please vote in favour of the short deadline for submitting proposals and amendments to the second reading. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[11:55:32]] For 208 208, it's not. I'll consult with you, colleagues. If there are no votes. All right, I'll do it again. I ask you to prepare for the vote, to take up jobs. I'm once again putting to the vote the proposal to shorten the deadline for submission of proposals, the amendments to the second reading of draft Law 4646-d. Please vote, please support. [[11:56:08]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I have an offer for us to move on to the next question, I'm going to continue for 15 minutes. What advice does the head of the committee have? Shall we come in? We have a big mobilization, let's work, colleagues. I keep going for 15 minutes, and then it's all going to be one half hour break. Not now. I will, but not now. Now we're going to the next question. This is a draft of the Audit Act (2534 and 6016). They're actually alternative, even though they were registered at different times. And I'm asking you to support their consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. A brief consideration, please. They will vote together, but they will be voted on separately. [[11:57:04]] For-183 Decision taken. And I'd like to invite you to the first report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Halasyuk Victor. Yeah? Then Buza Yuri Bogdanovich and then head of the committee. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u87	Thank you. Mr. Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues of the National MPs, I'm going to ask you today to send both drafts on the audit activity and the MP I am now presenting, and the one that has been tabled by the Ministry of Finance for further work. I'll explain why. The MP's bill was passed with Alexander Kirsch and with Alexander Kugel on April 3, 15. On February 3, 17th, with violations of all regulations, an alternative bill on government audit was introduced to Parliament. It just couldn't have happened. Is that the 2 weeks difference between April 3rd and February 3rd 17th? For several years, the committee had not considered a bill on audit. But that's not the point. What's important is that today I have an address as a national deputy from the Union of Auditors of Ukraine, representatives of the Auditor's Chamber of Ukraine from Odeščina, Equinox, Dnipropetrovščina, Zaporozhye, Harkovščina, other regions on the systemic threats created by the Government's Audit Bill. It is formally declared that this is bringing national legislation to European standards. But the devil in detail is the monopolization of the auditing market, it's the destruction of all the regional companies, it's the laying out of criteria for the number of testers, at least 15 people. There is no such thing in any of the regulations. It's essentially taking control of this country's financial information space that wants to make our own authorities today. You definitely can't do that. I've studied carefully the arguments that I'm making in my next statement, and I want to stress that a government bill is an artificial monopolization of the market by large companies, a threat and an end to an independent audit in Ukraine. In fact, they're subordinating Minfin in an organizational and financial way. It's impossible to accept that. I'm asking you to send both laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u88	Thank you. Deputy Finance Minister Butz Yuri Bogdanovic is invited to the report. Yuri Bogdanovich, please be brief. And I want to report that I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. But still, the more concise we are, the more chance there is to make a positive decision. Please, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u89	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian Law on Auditing Financial Reporting and Auditing, which aims to harmonise national legislation in the field of auditing with the provision of relevant acts of Directive 2000/43 of the European Parliament. The bill envisages improving the system of auditing in Ukraine in accordance with international standards and best practices. This will increase confidence in the professions of the audience and in the quality of reporting. The bill ensures full harmonisation of legislation in the field of auditing into European standards, the fulfilment of our obligations under the EU Association Agreement and proposes an optimal and balanced model of social surveillance and self-regulation supported by international organisations, regulators and representatives of professions. The new model provides for a reduction of the audience’s registers from five to one. At the same time, the corresponding cost of teaching and certification companies in different regulators is being reduced. Independence and impartiality are also ensured in the decision-making process compared with the existing system of regulation of audit activities. The bill was developed by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, with the participation of the World Bank, European Union experts and professional public organizations. The draft also received positive conclusions from the European Commission, the International Forum of Independent Audit Regulators, the Financial Reporting Board of Great Britain and the Audit Board of the Federal Republic of Germany as such meeting the requirements of Directive 2006/43. The bill was also supported by a working group created by the Supreme Council Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, which included European experts, representatives of all regulators and professional public organizations. A large number of improvements have also been made that will be taken into account when preparing for the second reading. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u90	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Tax and Customs Committee, Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that for the first time our committee came to work on the study and on the drafting of these two and 2534 bills, and for the first time on August 17, 2015, when the government bill was registered for the first time by the government of Yatsenuk. For almost two years. More than 60 working groups were held, with experts, audiences, professional accountants, well, mostly in the majority of 50 and over. So what I'm saying is that this is a question that's already been discussed with the profession, so we've been trying to clear up the standards that seem to be becoming more hard on our audiences. But let us tell the truth, and the work and conclusions of the audience in our country are highly respected. We need to achieve a different attitude toward the audience, a different attitude toward the audience. And that can only be achieved, by the way, because of the more stringent requirements for audit companies. And the audience agrees. Because the regulator that is now, the Auditorium, has long been undervalued. And society understands that as such a regulator representing a community, he has already regained his senses. That's why, right now, even after the government bill (6016) was registered, we worked hard to remove all the questions that remained in the audience that asked you to block the bill. So I would like to point out that even after the introduction of this bill, we've worked out, we've all worked out, we've worked out, we've all worked out, we've worked out, we've worked out, we've worked out, we've worked out, we've worked out, we've been working on, we've been working on, we've been working on, we've been working on,
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u92	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u93	Colleagues, I'll be done soon. Please don't leave the hall. We need to make a decision. The list of so - called non - auditor services that an audience can provide has been clarified. The biggest issue raised questions about the requirements for auditors to carry out mandatory audits. And it has been decided that the requirements for auditors can only be established by the Auditorship Act. And now everyone's regulating the auditory activity and not letting the audience audit big businesses. Especially.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u94	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Romanova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u95	The word Ostrikovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! This law is really necessary in order to bring the bottom of the auditing market into line, because the legislation we have is outdated and these bills bring national legislation on auditing into line with European Union legislation. It is planned that even European markets can be released through recognition of the equivalence of systems, and the bill provides for the creation of a public oversight body that all audiences and audiences will be subject to social supervision. The public oversight body will be responsible for the public oversight of the audit activity, which will consist of the oversight of audit activities and quality assurance inspections. But there are a number of major shortcomings in the bill that are brought to the attention of professional representatives. In particular, we have been approached by audiences, the Harkow County Auditorium, who warn us that the number of auditors in the state of international diplomats is not provided for by international directives. They say that inadequate fines for the profession and they're out of line, they don't agree with the limitations of the director of the firm to work together. Please indicate the definition of the subject of social supervision in accordance with the bill that we have just voted for in the first reading, 4646 makes it possible to exclude medium -sized enterprises from there, leaving only large businesses there. It's said that according to international auditing standards, the share of the income of an audit firm from one client can't exceed 10 percent, otherwise it'll be recognized as an influence. We also have a lot of questions about how we finance a social security agency, and they're asking us to put a wire, so that it's not more than 20 percent, sorry, 20 thousand dollars from one firm. If these requirements of the audience are taken into account between the first and the second readings, we will support this law in the first reading, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u97	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u98	The Self-Help faction supports this law in the first reading with my warnings. However, if they are not taken into account by the amendments to the second reading, we will generally not be able to support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u99	Kirichenko Alexei Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u100	I give the floor to the deputy leader of the Radical Party of Economic Affairs, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u101	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The way the bill is put into the room, I mean the government audit bill, it can't be adopted. It's the destruction of independent auditing, it's the monopolization of the market, it's the takeover of Minfin's auditory profession, something that's not provided for by any Euroredict. And in fact, it's about putting an audience, an independent audience, under external management. So if you want to support this, do it, but understand that you are voting today. So I call for a red button now and both bills to be sent to work on the committee. I have great respect for Nina Petrovna as a professional, but she is obviously being misled because it is impossible to read secondly, according to the Rules, to make the conceptual changes that this legislation requires. So go back to the committee, really take all the comments from the audience and experts into account, and put a consolidated paper into the hall, just like the bill on accounting happened. When industry thinks it's possible to adopt these laws, when it goes against the interests of the country's profession, it's not possible to enact such laws. So I urge you not to support these bills today. Audit is an extremely sensitive area of activity. It's not just entrepreneurial activity, it's access. financial and economic information. And the criteria for the audit companies that will result in this market being artificially narrowed down to the largest companies, twenty - fifty and fifty, can only be known by those who planned it in Minfin. Therefore, this affair must not be overlooked; it must be governed by the laws of the State. Both draft laws can be amended in a qualitative manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u102	Thank you. Missik's giving the word to Jacenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u103	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Unfortunately, there are some very large questions under good intentions. First of all, you think to be an audience, you have to have an internship for at least 15 years. So it's actually a small and medium-sized business, and it's killing young people who want to take the job, they just drive them into submasters, and they actually discriminate. Secondly, a social oversight body is being created that will be financed by the same audience from each transaction, that is, such a tribute. In addition, the mandatory insurance liability of the audience is introduced and such restrictions are actually added, for example, that 3-5 audiences are expected to work in the audit firm. So it's actually just aimed at stabilizing the market and swinging at this, you know, grandfather in the field of auditing. So, of course, we feel that this law needs to be revised and that it needs to be rereaded first. And, my friends, the other question is not about this law, but I think a lot of MPs in this room want to pass Law 5119-1 against hedgehogs. And we're all reading a lot on social media and on TV, let's do Andrew Vladimir, put him up early, and now we're going to vote after this law. Let's finally show that we're a European country where cattle don't belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u104	Thank you. It's in our house, so we'll get to it after lunch if there's room will we be able to look at it and see it more quickly. Colleagues, this is the closing statement and I'm asking everyone to come to the hall, and in two minutes, there's gonna be a vote. I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the Hall, and I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies to the Hall. And Rybchin Alexei gives the floor to Kugel, Alexander Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! I have the privilege of being present and having an attitude toward the first auditors of Ukraine. We are then headed by Vladimir Golovac, Julia Futorianska, Taras Vasil from Rivno, from Ternopol, from Lviv, Valery Galasyuk from Dnipropetrovska, Alla Savchenko – we were the first to sit down and write a bill that the democratic first parliament of Ukraine adopted in 1993. I can tell you, we were proud that Ukraine was the first country in the SND to adopt the Audit Act. I was ashamed to hear Mrs. Yuzanina today when she said that it was impossible to give administration to public organizations in the field. It's a European principle, it's always the Europeans saying that it's the most important thing that's not in a country that's not building a democratic one. In fact, your President doesn't want democracy, you want management of the audience. In Italy, for example, the Chamber of Commerce is responsible for registration. But in particular, over the years of the bill, the audiences have been subject to the Ministry of Finance, ask their audiences, although once in their lives the Ministry of Finance has done something to make this profession a business to keep it accountable for small and medium-sized businesses. No, we started four foreign companies in Ukraine, we just let her conduct bank audits, which everyone is bankrupt today. Think of the speech of Gontareva when she said that KPMG should be sent from Ukraine for the reports of the audit firm that they gave to the banks. If you vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u106	Please, 10 seconds, because I've got 15 minutes and I can't continue the session. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u107	I support Valery. Victor Halasyuk has asked you to vote these bills to complete the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u108	Thank you, colleagues. So the discussion is over. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Either do not take up jobs or stay there. I put to the vote the first draft of the Audit Act (No. 2534), which was represented by Halasyuk. The committee suggests that it be rejected, but I'm putting it on the ground, and the hall will be determined. The committee's offering to reject it. 2534 on the ground. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:15:35]] For-100 The decision is not taken. And I'll put the next one to the vote. I'll just warn you, I won't vote unless someone votes. I am voting on the draft Financial Reporting and Audit Act (No. 6016) on the basis of such a proposal by the committee, on the basis of it. I ask your support, I ask you to vote on the basis, I beg you on the basis. Please support me as a base. Please be supportive. [[12:16:30]] For-166 Colleagues, I'm going to make an offer that I've been making, both of you, to send to the committee for work. Will everyone be supported? It'll be supported. So I'm going to propose that we send the 2534 and 6016 back to the committee for re-reading. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote, please support. [[12:17:07]] For the 220. Colleagues, a few votes. Please come in, take your jobs. Colleagues, please vote. Minister! Minister, you can only be in the government's bed. Sayenka! In the cabinet bed, please. I'll ask the government again. So, colleagues, I'm betting on a return -- a proposal and then a vote. I'm proposing to go back to the proposal for a dispatch to Committees 6016 and 2534. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:17:59]] For 218. Well, that's the deal, fellows! Well, we agreed to do it together. That was your offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, I'll put it back on. Please mobilize, I'll make that offer again. But I would like to stress that I'm putting forward a proposal that was announced by the drafters of the bill, and that's the right, compromise proposal. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize, take jobs. Once again, I propose that draft Laws 6016 and 2534 be sent to the committee for re-reading. And I ask your support, please vote. Please vote, please support. [[12:18:59]] For 232 And now I'm putting 2534 and 6016 back on the committee for my first re-reading. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[12:19:30.]] For 229 Decision taken, colleagues. Thank you for your constructive work. We have been able to do a lot of things, but now, according to the Rules, it is necessary to call a recess. I'm calling a 30-minute break to 12:50. After the break, we will continue to consider tax policy issues. And this will be the draft of Law 4560. I would like the authors of the law to be in the hall and ready for consideration. Thank you. At 12:50, we'll continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. And I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. I'm going to put a vote on the summary procedure for the draft Law 4560. I ask you to support this offer, and I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, we're short. That's bad. There must be more of us. Invite the deputies to the hall. Please take your seats and come into the hall. It's organized. The deputies of the columns enter the hall. So we can go to the next law of the tax and customs policy bloc, this is the draft law amending article 243 of the Ukrainian Customs Code for Territorial Authorities of the National Police. And I, colleagues, ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and I'm asking you to support this proposal. Please vote. We are voting on the reduced procedure. [[12:58:11]] For 111 Let me show you through the factions. Peter Poshenko Block 51, People's Front 41, Opposition Block 0, Self-help 2. My colleagues, it's still very simple. We have a tax policy cluster today, and a block of energy efficiency issues, and budget changes. If we go into full procedure, we just won't be able to look at all of this ambitious plan that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has put in place today. Therefore, I ask you to take a responsible vote and I ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Yes, by the way, there is still the Animal Protection Act to which we must reach. And I also ask all animal-protectors to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. And cinematography is a very important bill, Ukrainian. They're the next two. And we are simply obliged to support Ukrainian cinematography. So, colleagues. Hey, guys, can you back me up? Andrew, Volodya. [[B in m in s a l in]] I know why I'm asking you to follow a reduced procedure. And to do that, it's not me that needs to be apologetic. It's my colleagues who come up on the faction and support this proposal. So, colleagues! So once again, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to consider draft Law 4560 on a simplified procedure, please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. There's two words. It's a very short law. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:00:37]] For 131 131. Dynamics positive. Dynamics positive. The MPs continue to enter the hall, more and more in the hall. I'd like the factions' heads to mobilize a special warehouse. And I'm betting. Colleagues, let me remind you, we have the next two laws. This is the support of cinema. We have an energy efficiency block today, 4941 and 4901 -- progressive and important laws. To be able to look at all these bills, we have to go and work effectively and efficiently. And so I'm asking everyone to mobilize, take jobs and support the review of the reduced procedure. So, colleagues, can we vote? High level of mobilization and readiness? Let's go to the vote. Please. And I'm voting on the summary procedure for draft Law No. 4560. Please support and please vote. We vote, our colleagues are settled and responsible. Please all take part in the vote and support the proposal. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:02:39]] For 168 168. To win, the responsible position of Parliament. And I invite you to report to the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, Trojan Vadim Anatoliyovich. Mr. Wadim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u110	Good afternoon, distinguished Head, distinguished national MPs. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 243 of the Customs Code provides that the formal territorial authorities of the internal affairs of the article be replaced with the territorial authorities of the National Police. It's just a technical decision. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u111	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Tax and Customs Committee, Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u112	Honorable National MPs. Indeed, the bill has a very technical nature, no changes to the existing order for the administration of revenue and customs control and customs administrations, it does not make any changes. Therefore, at its meeting on April 5, 2017, the Committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and generally as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u113	Thank you. My colleagues are really very brief on the bill. Let's have a brief discussion. Please, two-and-a-half, two-to-one. Please sign up. Ritchkova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u114	I give Michael Kobtsev my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u115	Dear colleagues. There's nothing to discuss. This is a bill that changes the three words "National Police" to "internal affairs." That's why the Dust Block will vote in favour and call everyone to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u116	Thank you. From the Radical Party is Ljasko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u117	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, there is nothing to discuss, for many of you do not go to Parliament, receive help, and have a status of inviolability, and do not go to the Supreme Council. How many times does it take to close a meeting because of a lack of appearance? And the Radical Party team that goes to work every day has something to discuss. Thank you for your support. In particular, the issue of pension insurance. Each person in Ukraine is concerned about the pension he will receive when he retires. And there's no answer. Four million people in Ukraine today receive a minimum pension. The minimum wage when they retire, they will receive the minimum wage. The government, by raising the pension entitlement, raising the working age, does not solve the key problem of increasing pension insurance, so that our world's best pensioners, who have worked their lives honestly so that they don't get cleaned up so that they don't collect bottles so they can buy drugs. That's why the Radical Party team requires the authorities to immediately consider a bill in Parliament from July 1st of this year to radically increase pensions for Ukrainian citizens is our first requirement. Half a million people get a pension of less than a thousand dollars, live on it, parasites! The people need normal pensions, normal wages, and the key are jobs. I'm sure every one of you has relatives, friends who are employed, and what to do with millions of Ukrainians, young people who are studying and going abroad, because there's nowhere to work. That is why we offer Ukraine an alternative to the destructive policy of power. Ukrainians work and pay!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u118	The People's Front is Oleg Medunica. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u119	The People's Front supports this bill, we call for a vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u120	Thank you. And, fellows, we're about to make a closing statement. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and in a minute, there's going to be a vote. Please invite the heads of factions, all national deputies. From "self-help" who? Yegor Sobolev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u121	We support this technical change. But, colleagues, I'm sorry, I wanted to take this opportunity, but we rarely find out when the government is in Parliament, what about a man named Yuri Doluban? How did the investigation of the involvement of a person who appeared in the form of an officer of the Ukrainian police in the Supreme Council Hall end and then find out about his being in the East Battalion among the traitors of Ukraine during the attack on Ukrainian volunteers? Is it true that this person is being transferred to the Kyiv district police? I'm asking the National Police representative to give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u122	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over and we're moving on to a decision, please. Colleagues, those who call me to the Rules, first of all, when we discuss the bill, we don't talk, now we're talking about the bill. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to prepare for the vote right now and please take your jobs. You're ready, aren't you? And I am voting on the draft Law amending Article 243 of the Ukrainian Customs Code on Territorial Authorities of the National Police (No. 4560) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Wait a minute, now. Vote, colleagues, please support, please vote. [[13:09:43]] For 206 Fellows, I repeat to you now, once again. Please invite the deputies to the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, advice on what to do? I'll be right back. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, look, we can exchange our thoughts for a minute, but I suggest we try to get back, because this is a very different issue. So let me do it. Tomorrow will be an hour of questions to the government. And he told the National Police that tomorrow he would give a complete answer, didn't he? Colleagues, now 1:00, Thursday, tomorrow the National Police official promises that he will answer that question in the "hour of questioning to the government." That's okay, is it okay? Copy that. So this is going to be right, and I'm going to bet. I think so. colleagues, do you understand what's going on here right now? We're discussing a bill on a completely different subject. A representative of the National Police, the deputy minister says, "Tomorrow, during the hour of questioning to the government, I'll give you an exhaustive answer." What is the problem? The problem of tearing down the hall and making a conflict? So it's not the right approach. I think the approach is to vote on our decisions and mandates, and tomorrow the answer will be given and that will be fair and fair. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to return to draft Law No. 4560 and I ask you to vote and please support. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[13:13:09]] For 222 I'll do it again. Take your jobs again. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. So I'm proposing to go back to draft Law 4560, asking everyone to take up their jobs and vote. This is a technical bill necessary for effective law enforcement. Don't put politics where it doesn't exist. Please vote and please support the return to 4560. And you're against it, yes. Please support the return to 4560. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[13:14:15]] For 229 We're back. I am now introducing the draft Law amending article 243 of the Ukrainian Customs Code on Territorial Authorities of the National Police, 4560. And I reiterate that tomorrow, Troyan Vadim Anatoliyovich will provide information on the question that sounded in the room at the time of the law. So 4560 is on the basis and in general, please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please. Please vote. Vote. [[13:15:01]] For 238. Decision taken. The law is passed. Next question, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (3238 and 3238-d). Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please be supportive. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[13:15:38]] For 202 Decision taken. And I'd like to invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Condratjuk Olen Kostinenovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u123	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! We've come up with a fine bill, as I think. Because on March 23, this year, Parliament passed the Act on State Support for Ukraine’s Cinematography, which provides direct state support for cinematography, has been successfully tested in other countries, as well as a system to stimulate the development of film and distribution networks and the return of some of the qualified costs incurred in producing films that have passed a cultural test. As a result of the adoption of this bill, an effective system of state protectionism in the field of national cinematography should be created. I will note that the adoption of legislation on the protection of Ukraine’s information radio area has liberated a large niche from the Russian audiovisual product. So it was important for all of us not only to ban Russian but also to create the conditions for filming national films and TV shows by adopting the appropriate Act on the Maintenance of Films. However, the adoption of this law is only the first step towards creating a Ukrainian film and involving the world film industry in Ukraine. Such violations will not take place unless Parliament supports amendments and additions to other legislative acts, including the Tax Code. In view of this, a bill was drafted, which I will report on. However, since the fall of 2015, almost two years have passed since the registration of the legislative initiative. And it is clear that, for essentially objective reasons, the project was somewhat outdated and needed to be further developed by a broad working group on the basis of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee. On the basis of our project, the task force on the profile committee worked out a system of preferences that allows us to create better conditions for filming than in the neighbouring countries, this is Poland, Croatia and Hungary. Then, as members of the Tax Committee, customs policy is in association with the authors of Bill 38.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u124	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u125	Then, since the members of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, together with the drafters of Bill 3238, have introduced a joint amended Bill 3238-d, we do not insist on it, but we ask all colleagues to support the bill that the Committee has worked on. Thank you. I'm asking you to support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u126	Thank you. My colleagues, I'd like to remind you. You remember how we all adopted the Cinematographer Act in the hall, there was general support. Then they had a discussion through the President's veto. We finally accepted him. The two laws that are now in place are short laws that ensure the financing of this bill. So I'm asking you very carefully, it's very simple laws for us to consider and make decisions. It's very concise. Please report to the head of the Southern Committee, Nina Petrovna. Please be brief. So we can get through them quickly. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u127	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! Thank you for stressing once again that we have adopted a basic bill that clearly indicates that we need to develop changes to the Tax and Customs Codes to support the film industry. And it can't be without the support that our country has to make. Indeed, in the working groups and on the committee, we were very cautious about the benefits that we could offer. In order not to give preference to one payer to another. But given the balance that we've been trying to reach the last one, I want to tell you what the amended bill foresees, apart from everything else, a definition. We responded to comments that were being made all the time during the working groups. Thus, the amended bill identifies a non-profit owner, a nonresident in the Royalty, taking into account the characteristics of the film industry, the adjustment of the financial result, both the reduction and the increase in the amount of subsidies received by the payer in Ukraine’s cinematography to recover some of the eligible costs. Adjustment of the financial result to the amount of the royalty paid when an intellectual object arose in Ukraine and was then transferred abroad, taking into account the specificities of the film industry. Non-resident subsidies for the return of part of the eligible costs provided for by the Ukrainian Act on State Support for Cinematography and many other very valuable changes that make it impossible to abuse representatives of the film industry. In addition, we limited the duration of these benefits to five years, until January 2023. In view of the above, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt, on the basis of a bill drafted in the Committee, amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (registration number).
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u128	Colleagues, I'm asking you to hold a very brief discussion. Because, look, we have adjacent two bills, there are conjoints. I'm asking you to do the recording right now: two in, two in. But in a minute, just a minute for the show. Agreed? Please record: two in, two in. Please, Tetjana Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! Our Self-Help faction certainly supports the state support of cinema. And we proved that by voting in favour of the Basic Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine. But let's figure out what benefits are offered in this bill. What are you talking about? The amount of income accrued for the benefit of a nonresident natural person registered by a business entity under the laws of the country of which he is resident is not taxed. This is not at all in line with the general situation of the current Tax Code, which establishes the only approach to taxpayers’ income tax. But the biggest indignation is the release from VAT payment of a large number of equipment. What are we talking about? Cameras, television cameras, digital cameras, video cameras, motion cameras, lenses, chandeliers, and other electrical lighting devices that hang or anchor on the ceiling or on the wall. In fact, this law can be imported without VAT by the 21st year, without VAT, and without duty, without any payment of customs payments, with a huge amount of electrical equipment, audio transmission, audio recording equipment, chandeliers, any lighting device. Fellow dignitaries, the state support for cinematography should be provided with appropriate grants from the state budget, not by granting tax exemptions for added value. Moreover, we do not support exemption from land taxes. Because it is the competence of local councils and communities to pay land taxes or not to pay them. This is a local tax. That's why we support this bill conceptually. Let us work on it, then we can, indeed, provide effective benefits to cinematography subjects, not importers, not importers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u130	Thank you. Princely, please, Mikola, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u131	Thank you. The People's Front faction will unanimously support this bill with the letter "d." And I want to say that since 2015 he's been on the tax committee. Every week I asked for the support of the bill, and there were no suggestions that the self-help representative was talking about. This is an elementary sabotage of the support of cinematography, which the whole country was fighting for. So I ask you all to support this bill and I will be grateful for every vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u132	The arrow gives the word to Jacenk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u133	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u134	Turn on the Yatzenka microphone from the rostrum. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u135	Regrettably, this bill contains standards that virtually exempt the subjects of cinematography from taxation by 2023. So we're re-created tax holes. Then let's fire the medical services, there's different ones, so we're actually doing a little bit of cafthan again. The second question is that lottery money is going to go to the head of the budget for cinema. And for example, I'd prefer that money to go from a lotteries to treat oncological children, other different things that unfortunately exist today. So in support of cinematography as a whole, this law still needs substantial refinement and, therefore, its proposal for rereading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u136	Colleagues from Peter Prashenko's Block, Pober Igor Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u137	Please give the floor to the leader of the Social Democrats, Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u138	As we know from childhood, every parliamentarian and every Ukrainian, the most important art is film. But at the same time, I would like to ask another question to Parliament. These regulatory changes that we're making don't add the possibility of developing a home movie. The movie needs money. I would like, on behalf of the Social-Democratic Party, the deputies of Kaplin and Sugonjako Alexander, to invite factions in Parliament to give up nearly half a billion dollars in funding for their political parties, which you take from the pockets of ordinary Ukrainians: the pensioners, the doctors, the workers, the peasants, the military, the military, to pay their pensions in particular, and to send these half a billion dollars that you spend on your pierar and television advertising, on corruption equipment within your factions and parties, to support the Ukrainian film. And it's going to be a powerful tool to promote Ukrainian ears, to promote everything Ukrainian, to achieve a high level of information security in the state, and to pursue a true patriotic national policy in support of our country, our people and, of course, the cinematographer. We're willing to make the right proposals and we're going to work as the Social Democratic Party, along with the union, the professional community, so that you can take the money that you steal from the common people and target the real patriotic goals of supporting our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u139	Thank you. Colleagues, I'll be right there. All right, one more minute. From Fatherland, Krulko, from the Radical Party, Lozov. Two minutes later, we move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u140	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, well, if we don't support a really specific mechanism that will support the Ukrainian cinematographer, we're going to watch a third-rate Russian movie that just kills young Ukrainians in the head, which means we have a fraternal nation. In the context of the information war, let's finally develop our cinema, our Ukrainian film. And if we've already taken the first step and passed the basic law, let's make changes to the Tax Code and find a real mechanism to fill the budget so that Ukrainian cinema will have little support. That's why the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill. And I call on the entire session room to support the Ukrainian cinema. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u141	Thank you. And Andrew Lozov, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u142	When. Andrew Lozovy, Radical Party. When an MP, called the great Charlie Chaplin, tells us that it is less important, he simply shows his proximity. Ukrainians are a great cinematographic nation, we gave the world a Ukrainian poetic film, at the same level as Federico Fellini. This nation has given the world a debt. This nation has given the world its heirs, Sergey Paradjanov, Kira Muratov, Yuri Illenka, Victor Grizzly. And today, when we're told that it doesn't matter, I wanted to say that during the war, culture can heal as much as cannons. Many years ago, to the then director of the FSB Vladimir Putin, we hate him, but this is an evil genius, we have to admit it, the film director Alexy Balabanov came and showed the first "Brother." Please add Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u143	Add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u144	And when Putin saw the first "Brother," he said to Balaban, "I give you an unlimited budget, make 50 of these movies, because propaganda is extremely important, it's a struggle for mind and mind." And there's no need to regret that money, and we have to fight for it, and we have to raise the Ukrainian film by all means. Thank you. The glory of the nation!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u145	I'll give you the next law. You wouldn't deny it. We have the next one. Okay. Colleagues, come on. I promise I'll give you the next identical law, and I'll give you my word. Do we have a deal? Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm putting the bill to a vote. [[Noise Nodes]] I said I'll give it to you by the next law. He's identical. I'll give you my word next. He's identical. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (No. 3238-d) on a basis only. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[13:31:19]] For 249 249. Decision taken. The next one is actually the same bill, let's go through it quickly. I promised someone, so I'll give them my word. So I would like to vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Please. Please vote for the short cut. [[13:31:48]] For-200 200. Decision taken. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Condratiuk Olena Konstantinovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, I won't take much time. I'm going to say that the exact situation is the same now as the changes to the Customs Code as we had before the Tax Code. I'm simply asking you to take responsibility for voting on this bill, and to support the decision of the working group that was made on the basis of the Committee on Customs and Tax Policy. I very much ask you to pay attention to who really wants to support change and really wants to have a Ukrainian movie in all of us in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u147	Thank you. To his co-report, the head of the Southern Committee, Nina Petrovna. Very concise, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, as we have discussed the previous bill, I see that many of you have failed to notice that we are taking on the basis of a revised bill, no land tax benefits are granted, and this is the first thing I want to say to you. With regard to Bill 3239 and amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Code on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine. The amended bill contains a clear list of goods that will be subject to the payment of benefits in importing these goods into the customs territory of Ukraine. UTZED codes are indicated for the last sign, and more so, it will only be possible to do those cinematography subjects that have a license, that is, it does not extend to all taxpayers and abuse is almost impossible here. Taking into account all the committee's work, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of the committee's draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Code on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (registration number 3239-d), taking into account the requirements of part three of article 110 of the Supreme Council Rules. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u149	Thank you. Colleagues, please, two in favor, two in favor. And please sign up for both the will of the people and the other factions. Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u150	Please pass the word to Tetjana Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, when we talk about state support for Ukrainian cinema and cinema, there is a proposal for the self-help faction to put into the budget changes that will now be considered by the next law, the allocation to support the Ukrainian film itself, specifically the money from the state budget. Because according to government information, we're going to be looking at changes to the state budget for 2017, there's a 25 billion overrun under the general state budget fund. So why don't you put this money into state support for Ukrainian cinema and give benefits to importers, importers of equipment? Think about it, read this bill, what is it about? Temporarily by 2021, they are exempt from import duties, and so VAT when imported into customs territory of Ukraine and placed in any customs regime goods classified under such codes. I've already reported in the previous report that there are digital cameras, video cameras, chandeliers, any lighting devices, what does this have to do with film making? You want to support the movie, put money into the government budget, and do not give the importer any benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u152	Thank you. Sevrukov Vladislav, "Peter Prashenka's Block", and I beg of you in a concise manner. Colleagues, everyone's waiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u153	Sevrukov Vladislav. I'm going to try it in a very concise way, and I think that Parliament should be consistent, and I thank you for your support for this bill. And we need to work out, adopt the Film Support Act, and also accept 3239-d, and thank you all for your support, the Peter Prashenko bloc will support this bill. And I propose to the head of the committee, in the presence of votes, to lay it as a foundation and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u154	Thank you. From the Radical Party is Ljasko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u155	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team in Parliament supports all the laws aimed at the development and support of national culture. Because we have to realize one very simple thing, in order to build a temple that's strong for a millennium called "Ukraine," there has to be a completely powerful iron concrete foundation. This foundation in the temple "Ukraine" is: culture – Ukrainian, language – Ukrainian, church – Ukrainian, spirituality – Ukrainian. And only then will we have a powerful and strong state. What's our problem with Donbass today? Why couldn't the Russian Peace come to my home country? To Lviv, to Dnipropetrovska, to Kiev, or to the Plains? Because there's the Ukrainian spirit, because there's the Ukrainian Church, where 25 years have been forgotten about Ukraine, about Ukrainian symbols, about Ukrainian language, about Ukrainian schools, about Ukrainian kindergartens -- today they have to pay with blood to protect their country. Propaganda, cultural tools are extremely powerful, powerful weapons in the reflection of Russian aggression. And this weapon is no less powerful than tanks, planes, or helicopters. So I call on the Ukrainian Parliament to unite efforts, to protect and develop Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian information space, the Ukrainian Church, the healthy way of life for our young people, so that we can have the prospect of being competitive in today’s global, hard world. Enough to turn Ukrainians into bums, our job is for every Ukrainian to have a job, a decent salary, and a life worth living.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u156	So, my colleague, Galchenko, would like to give the floor to Dobrenkov, please. Then, one minute Ribczynski of the will of the people, and we move on to the vote. Please, Dobrenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u157	Respectable Ukrainian citizens, respected colleagues, the fact that there are a lot of MPs here now talking about supporting the country's cinematographer, of course it needs to be supported. To my profound conviction, this support should be in the form of direct budget grants, by amending the relevant Ukrainian Law on the Budget Code, which will now be considered. But a large number of deputies, a presence that is not supported by a national cinematographer, but by the end of the year, the budget is set at tens of billions of dollars that will now be resolved here. That's why so many national deputies are here. As far as propaganda is concerned, I want to say that there will never be a free democratic society in which propaganda will rule from the center, what resources to read, what movies to watch. In every democratic society, of course, there must be a national film. But we should not have the moral or legal right to take a choice from Ukrainian citizens. I choose to watch movies or Russian or Ukrainian or English movies and we all choose what to watch. And from the bottom of my heart, I'm forced to talk about what propaganda is, to my great conviction when the opposition block faction supports this bill, it's not going to be a propaganda tool, it's going to be a hope for the restoration of Ukrainian cinema. And who's talking about the third-rate movie of the eastern countries, I want to point out that if we get to the level of at least that third-rate movie, it's going to be very good, because of the large amount, because of the great quality of these movies. Of course, the national idea must be practiced, not practiced out of hatred, the idea of intolerance to another language population. And as for Donbas, I would like to say, don't take the money to rebuild the Donbas Bill 6600 that you're about to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u158	Colleagues, closing statement, Fishczynski, one minute, we're going to the vote, please all come into the hall and take up jobs. Although I can see that there are almost no jobs available. Please, Rybczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u159	Dear Ukrainians! I would of course have answered "The Cloud," but I don't have time for just one minute. I dare remind myself of the history, not even of Ukraine, but of our closest neighbours, the Turks. 100 years ago, when Ataturk came to power for the first time, what he did was he severed the Arabic link and came to today’s Turkish alphabet. Then he gave the money to sing, not in Arabic, but in Turkish, in Freud! – to sing Turkish songs, and then he gave money to a Turkish cinematographer today they have a nation, and we're just building it so let us not delay but vote for this country's much-needed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u160	Thank you. Let's move on to decision-making, and I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (3239-d, developed) as a basis. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote for the basis. We vote, colleagues, we support Ukrainian cinematography. [[13:42:41.]] For 248 Decision taken. And, colleagues, I would like to inform you that we voted today to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's National Budget for 2017 at the meeting today. And so now I'm putting it up for consideration by the Supreme Council, according to the decision of the sessional room, according to the decision we made at the morning session. I ask you to support the proposal to review the draft law on reduced procedure. Unfortunately, we have only a short period of time before lunch. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:43:39]] For 172 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Deputy Minister of Finance, Marcarov Oksana Sergiyevna. Please, Oksana Sergiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u161	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! We ask you to support the amendments to the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2017. What are these changes that we ask you to support? When you and I passed the State Budget Act, we adopted it on the basis of a macro-prediction last year. Since then, the macro-prediction has been clarified in response to some changes in the macro-prognosis, and we also have to say that the actions that the government is doing with the Supreme Council have given its results and we have got better some indicators, particularly nominal GDP has been increased to. By 260.9 billion dollars, the wage fund has also increased by 129.4 billion, exports have increased and imports have also increased. So, given these improved macro-indicators, we have to say that we've been able to make overturn income in the first five months, and this is a real overturn of 20 billion dollars in the total fund. What accounted for this overcoming? It's also a tax on congregations, on the income of individuals, it's a VAT on goods bound to the territory, it's a tax on oil and gas condensate. And more than we planned to get dividends and portions of net profit from NAC Naftogazu. There are, of course, indicators that have reduced this indicator. These are VAT from goods produced in Ukraine. Yet it's a positive indicator because it shows that we're clearly compensating VAT. And we've also shown 5.9 billion here for the customs experiment. Where do we ask you to direct these? Is this overkill? First of all, these are urgent needs for defence and security, including the carrying out of an antiterrorist operation. That's what matters. 14.1 billion -- on benefits and subsidies to support those. The most vulnerable levels that require our support with you are the provision of payment to miners, as well as security measures that. You were asking us to.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u162	Please, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u163	Thank you very much. It's a mine safety measure; it's a reform of the State Fiscal Service; it's a family-type children's house; it's a reimburse; it's a treatment abroad; it's an increase; it's a lot of other programs. In fact, in this budget, we've collected all the urgent needs so that we don't have any debt on wages or debt on all the socially important programs. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u164	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee’s Committee on Budgets, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please, Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u165	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! The Committee on Budget Affairs will consider the Government Bill 6600 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2017, with the participation of First Deputy Prime Minister of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, and the leadership of the Ministry of Finance. During the consideration of the bill, attention was drawn to some of the warnings expressed in the committee’s conclusions. In particular, the bill does not provide detailed calculations of the relevant changes, incomes, and expenses that do not meet the requirements of article 91 of the Supreme Council Rules and also notes GNEU. With the introduction of a significant increase in the customs payment plan, there will be a corresponding increase in monthly indicative rates of customs revenue, resulting in a risk of their execution in the coming months and the further implementation of the customs road financing experiment that we started with you. The bill proposes to increase the subsidy for benefits and housing subsidies by $14.1 billion. However, the government does not provide an explanation of the magnitude and distribution of such amounts between local budgets, which prevents it from assessing sufficient funds to ensure that benefits and subsidies are properly provided at the end of the current year. Today, two and a half times the annual plan for the collection of confiscated funds has been revised. Therefore, it would be appropriate to increase the planned rates of these revenues and budgetary targets on how to use them. However, the bill does not contain appropriate changes. The proposed increase of government debt by 107 billion dollars is evidence of further increased debt burdens on the public budget and increased debt risk in the future. At the same time, in view of the urgency of addressing the issues envisaged in the bill, the Committee adopted the following decision on the budget provision of benefits and housing subsidies, the primary defence and security needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u166	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u167	To recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 6600 to adopt as a basis and generally as a law with proposals put forward in a letter to the Committee to the Supreme Council. In particular, it is proposed that the law be supplemented by the Government's mandate to sum it up, and in the middle of the year, to amend the Supreme Council's proposal to increase expenditure on the provision of state priority functions, to create adequate conditions for the training of staff by higher education institutions, and to increase social inclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u168	Ten seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u169	development of the roadways of general use, increasing the planned rates of confiscated funds and clarifying the budgetary targets for their direction of use. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u170	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Krulko Ivanovich, please. He's handing in Oleni Schrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u171	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, I want to take this opportunity to bring this thing to a very important expense in this law and to a very important issue. At present, it is proposed to increase the cost of the Ministry of Defence for the payment of one-time cash assistance in the event of death or injury, the disability of a military official by 353 million dollars. And that's an extremely right initiative. But at the same time, I must point out that today, in the event of the death of a military officer, after his release from service, but because of the injury he suffered on the job or because of, for example, the illness he received in the service, his family receives nothing. We have long known this situation. And that's why we actually have a large number of co-authors working on the 6268 bill that solves this situation. Unfortunately, he was registered in April, blocked by Mr. Pashinsky’s security and defence profile committee. And yesterday, at the committee meeting, it wasn't really considered, but it was, in fact, delayed again because Mr. Pashinsky decided to refer the matter to the Cabinet and to the Ministry of Finance, whether there was money for it. Here I want to take advantage of the presence of the Deputy Minister of Finance and get her to agree that that's exactly what this bill is all about. 353 million is much more than necessary. And to ask the Security and Defence Committee to meet again, to consider an important Bill 6268 and to provide assistance not only to those who died directly in the execution of their duties, but who died and died from the disease they received on the front, or from the injuries they suffered on the front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u172	Please, the People's Front is Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, you said in your own time that you would respect the Ukrainian Parliament when the Ukrainian Parliament approved you as Prime Minister. The point was that budgetary issues were probably priorities in that sense. We have the budget changes again on the night of yesterday, and today they're moving into the hall, and they're just trying on the basis and at the same time. How much respect is this for the Ukrainian Parliament, Vladimir Borisovich, when such important documents are submitted in a matter of hours? How much respect is there for the Ukrainian Parliament when committees do not participate at all in these matters? You know, the country's budget is approved by night fatigue, and the budget changes are made just in the evening, they're arranged in the fireplace, and then things happen that are put to the vote. And I think, Andry Volodymyrovich, just as we are now voting both on the basis and in general, this is going to be, at least, a breach of the regulatory procedure, because these are extremely important things. The 20 billion that have not been discussed in the committees are distributed incomprehensible ways when MPs were unable to read it. There are a lot of questions about this document, actually. Those things and those reforms initiated by the Ukrainian Parliament, they don't get funding. We have a lack of funding for public speaking. It was promised back then that there would be a budget redistribution, and we'll take that into account. No, we pass laws in this room, these laws have fixed amounts, the government ignores these amounts. The Prime Minister promises us publicly: then we will grant it. It's not in the budget changes again. Our Committee on Freedom of Word and Information Policy, its members have expressed their support that we will not vote for these changes if key reforms are ignored for the state. There are good things, by the army, by the police and other things, but let's respect each other and discuss this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u174	Thank you. Dusk's Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u175	Dear Ukrainian citizens, we are currently looking at a rather trivial bill: making changes to the budget. First, they want to convey how such a banal fall in the life of the Ukrainian Parliament. But what's going on. They're offering to distribute 26 billion dollars. We have, for a minute, 750 billion dollars of income, 26 billion dollars, in what way. It is proposed that this bill be voted on as a basis, and in general it is not taken into account by the national deputies of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine determines the direction of these funds. Yeah, there's good stuff, but what's going on, except for these good things. The fact is that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in love with the Ukrainian people, is increasing the debt of Ukraine's border state budget by 107 billion dollars, saying that we are giving you 14 billion grants, but not citizens receive these subsidies, but they receive subsidies from natural monopolies that provide housing services, tariffs on which they have been increased by valid authority. This kind of love is exercised by valid authority toward Ukrainian citizens. What about the thinking of the citizens living in Donbas? 500 million dollars under this bill, 6600, increasing expenditure on other routes, you cancel expenditure on the State program for reconstruction of Donbas infrastructure. And since then, we can talk about the unity of the Ukrainian nation, about the support of people living on the Donbassa, and we can talk about these bills as fast as possible. And under the transcript, I'm saying that, personally and in my colleagues, the opposition block faction, there are proposals to change the direction of the stated overrun of the state budget. And please don't support him in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u176	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like to inform you immediately that I'm continuing for 15 minutes. And now it's from Peter Dustock's Block. From the rostrum, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u177	Dear colleagues! Dear Lord Chairman! I think, first of all, we should thank the Government of Ukraine and Prime Minister Volodymyr Groissman, who, in 5 months of this year, achieved a 25 billion budget overrun. I think that's a good start, and I'm more than sure that you have a lot of success and success ahead of you. We are also grateful that you introduced this bill to Parliament yesterday, and this morning the Committee on Budgets also considered it. You suggested we take a look at the infographics. It's right that there was an explicit agitation, and it's clear where the money is going. At the same time, I think it's worth paying attention to the committee's findings where there's six fuses. First of all, I think it's important that there are no financial and economic justifications before the bill on budget changes. I understand that time constraints, but at the same time. Second position. This has already mentioned the debt of the 107 billion Privatbank, and this bill also proposes to increase the cost of public debt service by a billion 900. At the same time, I think it's important that we have a sovereign debt management strategy, because we can increase it indefinitely. Third warehouse. Offers 14 billion dollars of subsidies. We understand, well, the Rules also require economic justification for this step, but we understand that sooner or later this money will end up in Naftogazu accounts, and Naftogaz currently has 50 billion dollars in the accounts from Crushing. So we need to be very careful here. That's why the Peter Prashenko faction proposes and insists that this bill be considered only on a basis. Moreover, it seems to me that my appearance on this rostrum shows that both the Peter Prashenko faction and the Parliament will work under the Rules and will be just in terms of all the people working for Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u178	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction of Tetjana Ostrkova. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u179	Dear colleagues. We're now looking at a document that will relate to the lives of more than 40 million Ukrainians for this year 2017, and we're asked to consider it in 15 minutes. The Budget Committee saw him yesterday because our faction was being held at the Bank's, where the leader of our faction is starving, and there's a budget committee, last night at 7:00 p.m., we only got him at 10:00 p.m. We couldn't even ask the government: What would the money put in here do? Let's figure this out. For example, 1.5 billion dollars is allocated to the National Police, of which 953 million are, almost a billion dollars, for material and technical security. We'd like to ask the government what this money is going to go for, because there's no cost detail before that, we can't just vote for a figure, a figure, one line in the budget. Let's move on: 400 million dollars to the State Border Authority, 300 million dollars to the engineering and technical facilities of the border. We'd like to hear from the government the answer that this is going to be, whether it's actually going to be Yatzenuk's wall and money thrown into a black hole. $14 billion in grants. Instead, we'd like to hear from the government where subsidies are being monetized and where the recipients of social benefits are being verified, which is why billions are being stolen. Moreover, according to the Court of Auditors, the constant allocation of subsidies does not stimulate the population to be energy efficient, nor does it encourage us to be energy efficient. I mean, we're giving money to a police state, we're giving money to raise the heat to the force, and we're making some money for doctors. If we're going to allocate one and a half billion dollars to the U.S.M.S., we're going to have 180 million doctors? What do we set aside for education? What do we allocate to culture? Condratjuk says zero to support the movie in the budget. Of course, you just voted for the benefits to importers, not Ukrainian movies, in the budget. So, unfortunately, for a reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u180	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u181	So unfortunately, for reasons of violation of the Rules, because of the violation of the procedure for the introduction of this bill, the Self-Help faction cannot support even the good things that I believe are in these changes. We ask that Parliament be given the opportunity to exercise effective parliamentary control over the spending of every piece of the Ukrainian budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u182	From Rebirth. But in a minute, come on, I'll give it to everyone who hasn't spoken, I'll give it to you. From Rebirth, Yatzenka. Then it's Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Mr. Head, the Honourable Prime Minister! The MPs are basically ready to support this bill, because there are certain things, like the Strj-Ternopil-Kirovograd-Zamjanka road, there's a medical subsidy to increase, some other positive things, like building stadiums for young people. But it can be concluded that today there is indeed a critical situation with the provision of oncological and other serious diseases for treatment abroad, and there are only 100 million dollars. There is also no cohlear implantation program, no minimal increase of only 24 million at 60 million, there is no, for example, Crohn’s disease treatment program, after joint endoprotesis. So we ask the Prime Minister by the new year to resolve the issue, first, of fully treating children, so that the situation of money-gathering, Vladimir Borisovich, stops in Ukraine, as in a developed country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u184	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u185	And to ensure that the program is fully treated for such things as joint endoprothesis, cohlear implantation, and others, which are unfortunately not being treated by the state for several years now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u186	And the Radical Party hasn't done it yet, and it's going to be a closing statement. Please, Liszko Oleg Valeriyovich, two minutes. Excuse me, in two minutes, we'll be moving on to the decision-making process. So I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall and the secretariat and the heads of the factions. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u187	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Prime Minister, may I have your attention? The draft changes to the budget that you have submitted deserve attention, there is an increase in the costs of defence, security, the medical sector, in a number of other important directions. But, Mr. Prime Minister, there is no key, an increase in wages for Ukrainians and an increase in pensions for Ukrainians. How are you going to cope with poverty? How are you going to extract Ukraine from the raw status of the colony, an addition to the strong world of this, when you want to export unprocessed forest, by taking away Ukrainians from work when you want to sell land, by taking away peasants from their homeland, when the President wants to veto the metallurgical law, by taking away the metallurgy of work? How are you going to make a strong country? When you finally pursue a policy that will give the Ukrainians money instead of going to the wedding. So the Radical Party team requires you to submit to Parliament a bill to raise the minimum wage, 5,000 dollars a month, minimum wage. The 500 bills that are planned for next year are neither me nor any of the Ukrainians. We demand an immediate increase in pensions, by increasing the minimum wage we have over 11 billion dollars of the pension fund's income, let's recalculate pensions, modernize and give people a normal pension. Mr. Prime Minister, it's enough to get married around the world: smell, Ukrainians work and pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u188	Thank you. So, colleagues, during the discussion there were questions to the Prime Minister and I give the floor to answer these questions to Prime Minister Volodymyr Volodymyr Groissman, of course, from the rostrum, please. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u189	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues, national deputies! We are always very respectful and respectful of your comments, and of the decisions of the Ukrainian Parliament. And I would like to emphasize that, as a result of our joint actions, we have managed in the last five months, due to economic growth and detinction, to get indicators of budget overrun. I would also like to emphasize that today local budgets are increasing from 35 to 50 percent across the country, which means that we are starting an economic recovery. We still have a lot to do to raise the social standards of people's lives. You and I made a minimum wage of three thousand 200, which was doubled. You and I are about to begin the most important discussion on the rise of pensions for Ukrainian pensioners. This reform will benefit 9 million of the 12 Ukrainian pensioners. Today we've made a proposal for changes to the Ukrainian budget, we can say that it's good or bad, but it's actually the changes that Ukrainian citizens need today, and that's 14 billion dollars we're sending to Ukrainian citizens that we've personally provided with compensation for housing services. It's the cost of Ukrainian citizens, and that's the sum that Ukrainian citizens pay less. If we don't make this decision, we're going to cause an extremely large non-payment crisis across the country. This will mean that the entire country’s heat utility will be held hostage to the situation. In addition, honourable colleagues, this bill provides for the financing of the National Academy of Medical Sciences. These are just the remarks that we've made in this room that we've done some serious fundamental work with the Academy of Sciences, and we're talking about supporting them today. This is a medical subsidy for Ukrainian doctors who are to receive timely wages, including in a mountainous area. We will take very seriously the advice that is being given in this room, but we are very serious about the public finances situation. We also have an extremely urgent need to provide Ukrainian miners with personal protection. And we're predicting 100 million, they have to pay a salary, and that's 280 million more. We're increasing by 200 million funding for a free drug program for Ukrainian citizens. We're doing everything we can to ensure normal security and defence, and I want to stress that these changes are a series of changes, and the following will be the result of a budget overhaul that's already going on, and that's only 5 months from now, where we're taking into account the higher education institutions, the whole force defense unit, so that we can get through the bracelet by the end of the year, and we don't have any problems. I have certainly spoken from this rostrum, we support public speaking, and we will do everything we can to make it funded by the bracelet by the end of the year, and I have taken on this commitment and I will fulfill it. Ask me when the year is up and we'll report for the budget from this rostrum, now we've only got five months and there's more than enough expenditure to spend. Dear friends, there are many questions that we will settle with you in the coming changes. And I'd like to address you today. Understanding all the criticism at our address and accepting it, but if we accept it today only on the first reading, we have with you the next week, two weeks you work in the districts and the committees, in fact we can only accept these changes at the end of July. We have to distribute it all over the country, all over the businesses, and then we can make calculations, and then there's going to be a new heating season, and it's very late. That's why I'm addressing you today, honoring your opinion, respecting your suggestions, so that you can adopt this decision as a basis and as a whole today. And I guarantee you that the following changes in the September months will take all the recommendations of the Budget Committee into account. And what's more, dear friends, it's public budget spending, you can still see every bracelet you spend today. And government purchases are being made through ProZorro's super-modern system, so it's all clean, it's all public and it's all open. Today, millions of Ukrainians need our support. And I call upon you, dear friends, the Peter Poshenko Block, all the Personal Deputies, the People's Front of Ukraine, all the Personal Deputies, the Radical Party faction, the Fatherland faction, the Rebirth Group, the People's Will Group, the Opposition Block and Self-Help Group, to believe that this is true of every Ukrainian city, village and country. I ask all non-fractionals to support this decision, too, and Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainian cities, and all of us. So I would like to support you as a whole, and I will thank you indefinitely for the support of the government. The government is set to work together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u190	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion and we are moving on to making a decision. I would like to point out to you, by the way, that there are, in fact, significant security costs. And I have a committee decision to take as a whole. I am. [[Noise Nodes]] I'm asking that the hall be determined on that matter. I'm proposing a vote that supports the committee's proposal to consider as a whole. The hall has to make decisions, colleagues who support the proposal to take the floor as a whole. [[Noise Nodes]] I don't have the budget yet. All I'm asking is an offer, friends, hear me out! Please. I'm voting on a proposal to consider the bill as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. It's called "one-time departure from procedure." Please support who supports this proposal. Please vote back. [[14:12:26]] For 199 Colleagues, I'm sorry. [[B in m in s a l in]] Hall did not support this proposal. Colleagues, pay attention. Attention in the hall! Let's go, everybody! - exchange of thoughts. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to calm down and stay put. After a minute, we exchange thoughts now to know how to act. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please let me finish, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u191	Dear National Deputies! I'm pointing out that now we're going to cause a huge problem with non-payments. We have a question of wages, energy resources, the whole budget complex. Not voting on this law will lead to a crisis of payment. I'm asking a colleague from the Petra Prashenka Block: please support this decision on the basis and in general. You only gave 60 votes, and you were actually more. And I'm ready for the next time we're going to keep working on the budget changes. I'd like your support. Personally everyone! Thank you for your attention, and I ask the Head of the Supreme Council once again to put this proposal, as Prime Minister, to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-22-m0.u192	Colleagues, look. [[B in m in s a l in]] Attention! Calm down. Colleagues, pay attention! Attention! Calm down, colleagues, and take your seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] Attention! So, colleagues, I want to let you know that we can't continue this discussion right now. I'll make another offer. Who supports the discussion on the basis and in general, I will put it again. If she gets the support, then I'll put it on the ground as a whole. So who supports the consideration of the draft Law 6600, which supports us to consider it as a basis and as a whole, I do not yet put it to the vote. I'm voting on the proposal so that we can look at it as a basis and as a whole who supports the committee's position. So whoever supports this proposal, please vote, please support. Vote. Please vote. [[14:15:03]] For 204 There are no votes. And I'm laying the groundwork for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2017 (6600) as a basis. Please vote, please support me as a base. Please be supportive. Based on the base. [[14:15:34]] For 264 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! 14:15, time for our work is up. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. If we all arrive at 16 hours, we'll begin our consideration of the energy efficiency block. These are very important questions. I ask you very much without delay to come to the hall so that we can continue our work at four o’clock, without delay. Thank you.
