ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and take your jobs. Are you ready for your registration? I'm asking the National Deputies to register. [[10:03:46]] 349 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council is open. My fellow Members, yesterday we did not complete a review of the draft Law on the Characteristics of State Policy to ensure Ukraine's State Sovereignty over temporarily occupied territories in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas to which we are to recognize Russia as an aggressor at the level of the legislative act. I want to stress that this is the law that provides for Russia to be recognized as an aggressor as equal to the law. For me, it is not clear why there was a blockade yesterday. The people who write me letters of compliance with the Rules were cruelly and cynically destroying parliamentaryism in this room yesterday. We won't let that happen. Today, colleagues, under the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we will continue to consider this issue. And I'm asking everyone to take their jobs. I want to remind you, we finished yesterday's presentation on the People's Front. I also want to remind you that yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we agreed that the paragraph "Men Agreements" was deleted from the text of the bill as early as the first reading. This is the moment that caused the most controversy. Moreover, I would like to remind you that it was agreed that the position on Crimea would be consistent with the second reading, and Chubarov and. is a guarantee that this paragraph will be written according to the law and according to our international arrangements. And that's why I don't think there's any reason for any conflict today. And I am convinced that today the Ukrainian Parliament will show the ability to work effectively and effectively. And now I'm giving the floor to Maxim Burbak, and then to all those who were enrolled. Please, Maxim Burbak before the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. Yesterday, I announced the demands of the People's Front faction to a bill on the characteristics of state policy to ensure Ukraine's state sovereignty over the temporarily occupied territories in Donetsk and Lugansk. Yet some factions and deputies were unwilling or unable to hear them. That's why I'm saying it again. At the request of the People's Front, all references to the Minsk Accords were removed from the bill. Without our votes, this bill will not pass. The People's Front has always required Russia to be called an aggressor and to shape the nation's politics accordingly. In our power, we have specific matters and decisions, and we have a moral right to such words. This law is necessary, he finally calls things his names. This law works in the interests of our army. Our condition for this bill -- no mention of the Minsk Accords -- has been fulfilled. Our second condition is to reflect the verification of the occupier's output from Donetsk and Lugansk regions. "The People's Front" to vote in favour of the bill, provided that the law takes effect only after full withdrawal from the ORDLO territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u3	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u4	The People's Front will vote in favour of the bill, provided that the law takes effect only after the full withdrawal of the Russian army, their mercenaries and the cessation of the occupation of the so-called republics. This fact should be borne out by the President's decree, which he only signs on the basis of the joint submission of the Minister of Interior of Ukraine and the Minister of Defence of Ukraine. These two conditions reflect the opinion of the state forces in this Parliament. Regarding the election in the ORDLO. Without the decision of the Supreme Council, there will be no election, nor will there be any other action that might even pose a theoretical threat. In this war, no emotion will prevail; in this war, the mind, principle and ability to unite all forces — internal and external — will prevail against the aggressor. So let's, with a cold mind and a patriotic heart, vote on the bill in the first reading, work on the second and start going back to the territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u5	30 seconds, please. Next performance. I want to remind you, there was a speech yesterday from the Fatherland faction, from the Self-Help faction, now from the People's Front. And now I invite you to speak with the Radical Party of Oleg Valeriyovich Láska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u6	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, I want to remind you of the history of the question. Since the signing of the Minsk Agreements, the Radical Party team has always, I emphasize, always consistently accepted these Minsk agreements as non-conforming to Ukraine's national interests. We assure and affirm that, by signing the Minsk Accords, President Poshenko has exceeded his mandate given to him by the Constitution of Ukraine, the Minsk Agreements do not meet the Constitution, do not match the interests of Ukraine. No document voted here in parliament to legalize the Minsk Accords was ever supported by the Radical Party team. I would like to remind you, after the President's press of 31 August 2015 voted amendments to the Constitution on granting special status to Donbas, the faction of the Radical Party was the only one who stepped out of the coalition to protest against the legalization of the Minsk Accords. Our position is unalterable. That's why we demand to remove from the text on the reintegration of Donbas the reference in article 7 of the bill to the Minsk Accords that legalize them. We are firmly opposed to this, we insist that outside, under pressure, the Constitution of Ukraine, the territorial system or the political system cannot change. The Minsk Accords are the preservation of Russian aggression, it is the recognition of the Customs advantage and the imposition of Ukraine on the outside as Ukrainians live. Only in Ukraine, the Ukrainian people have the right to decide the fate of Ukraine, the territorial system of Ukraine and the future of Ukraine. We thank our international allies for our solidarity. For their solidarity in our struggle, but we don't intervene in internal affairs or tell how to live with the Germans, the French or the Americans. Please do not tell us how to live for the Ukrainians. The Ukrainians themselves are capable of deciding their fate.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u7	Give me a minute. Please, Igor Lucenka. Igor Lucenko. Comrades, calm down, take your seats. Calm down, sit down. Calm down. Calm down. Calm down. Attention! Attention! Colleagues, attention, do not make a conflict. Please, Igor Lucenka. Come on, Igor!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u8	Dear Ukrainians! Yesterday, the "Fatherland" faction registered its alternate bill, commissioned me to do it as the author. Our position is very clear and clear: the Minsk agreements should not be part of any of the least, or in part, of Ukrainian legislation. To that end, we've taken away in our bill any mention of the Minsk Accords, any reference to any documents that are legalized through the UN, through any other institution, to these shameful agreements. That's first and foremost. But there's another one, which is equally important, where we have a reference to Crimea, which is an area just as occupied by the Russian Federation, which even Putin admits, and we don't want to admit anything here. Similarly, we have included the economic zone, the shelf, and all that is the wealth of Ukraine, which was seized by Putin, along with the taking of the Crimea. Third. We've cleared up all the completely wrong references to the President's non-existent decrees from this law, which we're actually giving the President any position to insert his decree that we haven't seen and we don't know, is an anti-constitutional norm, and we're demanding that it be removed from the bill. And finally, fourth, We think that it's not some operational and non-constitutional headquarters that has to direct strong actions in the east and defenses of our state, but it's an institution called the President of Ukraine, who has a colossal amount of authority, which is the Supreme Commander, who is to command armies in the east, that's his function, let him fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u9	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block to the performance, Irina Lucenko is invited. Please, Mrs. Irina. And, colleagues, please come into the hall, we'll move on to the decision-making process soon, and I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall, and take jobs. Please, Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, a respected society! You're watching the second day the Sabbath of conservative FSB agents who are preventing Ukraine from coming out of this military aggression in a peaceful and diplomatic way. First. These conservative agents do not allow Parliament to call Russia what it is for Ukraine and for the Ukrainian people an aggressor. The following is the fact that these fairies do not allow the Ukrainians and parliament to say that Ukraine is in a state of self-defence. What are these basic concepts for? This will give us an opportunity to engage defensive aircraft. This will allow us to introduce into Ukraine a peacekeeping mission that will be spread throughout the territory that will close the Ukrainian border and allow us to stop killing the peaceful population, which is more than 10,000 Ukrainians, to stop killing our boys. Yesterday, Irina Heratschenko and I received a message from 72 brigades called the Black Guards, where the flag said, "Ukraine or Death!".. The boys are writing, and they're saying, "We don't understand. We don't shoot them? We're not protecting Ukraine? What's going on in your Parliament?" So, if this law is not passed, which we have proposed, in the first reading, that any additional compromises that Parliament is willing to make will take place? The main thing is the destruction of Norman and Minsk peace formats, the adoption of these laws, the adoption of alternatives, are the grounds for possible accusations by the international coalition of Western partners, the breakdown of the negotiating process and the withdrawal of Ukraine itself. The second is the basis for lifting the sanctions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u11	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u12	Grounds for lifting sanctions from the Russian Federation. The third is the collapse of the international Ukrainian coalition. There is much to be said about the mining negotiations. Suggest another format where Russia has left its fingers, where it can be taken by its nose and pulled. If we don't adopt this law, we won't have the levers to get our hostages out. The OSCE mission will come out of this process, and we'll be accused of breaking up ourselves -- it's a mockery of the Russian Federation. Please, pay attention to this. Please support this law, which we propose in the first reading, where the question of Crimea will also be taken into account. Don't act on the provocations! Look who's disrupting these processes. We are now being watched by our Ukrainian army, which gives us the opportunity to show us in such a peaceful, peaceful manner: the Ukrainian state is.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u13	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u14	There is a Ukrainian state! We can solve everything in a peaceful diplomatic way. Dear friends, why don't you take your seats and show all the Ukrainians that you are for thousands of deaths or for a peaceful solution? Do you have to separate the five million Ukrainians that are there from all of Ukraine or Donbas? You are statesmen, you have sworn to defend sovereignty, the independence of the Ukrainian state!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u15	Colleagues, I'm going to ask Chubarov's word. Wait a minute! One minute Batenko, then Chubarov. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah! Yeah! Why are you yelling? And please, Batenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u16	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, honourable deputies, a respected Ukrainian society! Taras Batenko, Ukrainian Patriot Union - UKROP. We waited three years for this bill, three and a half years, when there was a war going on to name things by their names. Unfortunately, we see that yesterday we saw that emotion is debilitating and emotion cannot dictate the adoption of such serious laws, but cold judgment. Unfortunately, we see how the authorities today do not want to hear opposition because there are several alternative bills. For us, the principles of the things UKROP has repeatedly talked about: The Minsk Accords are not legitimate treaties for Ukraine. If you want them to be legitimate, bring them to the Ukrainian Parliament and we will ratify them. That's why we think that's unacceptable, and the 7th article has to be deleted without any trickery because of the various resolutions of the UN General Assembly, which the Russian Federation was running at the General Assembly. There's no need in this Parliament for trickery! Second pit.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u17	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u18	Alexander Valentinovich, explain to the community and the MPs whether there is no further trade in blood or the Security Council. Oh, your decision to ban the blood trade, it works and it stays in effect. Otherwise, we will not vote because we believe that the 10th article hides such a blood trade that ensures the movement of people’s goods. The third is the question of Crimea. And fourth, remember that we have the Defence Law, which clearly describes all the definitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u19	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u20	The status of the President as the Supreme Commander, the bet of the Supreme Chief Command, not the unified operational headquarters and the responsibility that everyone bears for his actions: President, General Staff, every general and every deputy of the Supreme Council. Instead of raping the Constitution, we obey the law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u21	From the Opposition Block, the word is given to Boykov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, in all the sociological surveys conducted in the country, put 60 percent of the population at the top of the problems that concern Ukrainian citizens, the issue of ending the conflict in the east and restoring the territorial integrity of our country. This means that people want peace, people want to bring back people and territories of Ukraine, and they think that this should be the main task of this assembly of parliament. Our faction has considered the bills presented today. We think that the bill that is being considered today is now exactly 7,163 is anything but the mechanism of the same return of territories and people and the restoration of the territorial integrity of our state. Our faction has deliberately supported the Minsk Protocol, which, at the time, has enabled us to stop, as a minimum, mass tragedies and to do so to bring the conflict from the military to the political plane. Our faction stands in these positions today, and we will uphold the law that will open the door to a peaceful settlement of the conflict. If anyone in this room thinks that this can be achieved politically without compromise, I think he's wrong. There must be compromise between the parties, the parties must hear each other and do everything the people of Ukraine want -- the restoration of a peaceful country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u23	And, colleagues, the closing statement in Chubarov's discussion, then the closing word of the Secretary of the RNB, the drafter of the bill, and we move on to the vote. Everyone, please come into the hall. Please, Mr. Chubarov. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u24	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Crimea and other occupied areas of Ukraine cannot continue to be separated from one another when it comes to restoring Ukraine’s territorial integrity and ensuring its national sovereignty. Right around the proposed project 7,163 we have a unique opportunity to finally come out with a single formula, the only formula in front of the entire world, in front of the partners, in front of the enemy, this is the only formula for restoring Ukraine's territorial integrity within borders recognized by international society, including the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. So starting with the name of this project and throughout the text, we have to include Crimea and write out the standards that lead to the depopulation of Crimea and norms. and separate areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. So I also call for a vote in the first reading of 7,163 and in the second reading on two key points: the Minsk Treaties and the Crimea. Let's write it all out in a way that will satisfy most of the MPs and then we'll vote in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u25	Thank you, colleagues. So we finished the discussion. There was a question for the secretary of the MPA regarding the bill. And I'm asking you to turn on Alexandra Turkinov's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear Head, honourable people's deputies, I hope that the Supreme Council will now make a very important decision for the country -- recognises Russia as an aggressor country. Why has this become relevant right now? Because Putin wants to hide his aggression under a peacekeeping operation and put blue helmets on the aggressor's horns. An aggressor country, which is defined by our legislation, can never take part in any peacekeeping effort. Next question. Yesterday, there was an agreement on the People's Front, the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, agreed with Peter Prášenko's Block to remove no speculation, even though there's no speculation. But still, delete the first part of the 7th article, which deals with the Minsk Accords, from the first reading. [[Applause]] Nevertheless, the rostrum was blocked. Next question. The law clearly states that article 11 states that Ukraine continues to fight for the liberation of its territory, including the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. That's not a question to be asked. If there is a desire to expand this position in the second reading, I am convinced that the Supreme Council will not deny it and that will clearly support it. Next question, the use of the Armed Forces. Dear colleagues, read not Facebook, but the law. A very limited area of application, I conclude, by the President of the Armed Forces, this is Lugansk and Donetsk district, to liberate occupied areas. Next question. You don't have to speculate about trade. The National Security and Defence Council banned trade in occupied areas. This decision cannot be overturned by a military commander, no one else. So all the speculation around this is simply an attempt to cover up their criminal non-vote for the law that matters to the country. I ask you to forget the political strife there, to mention the country, to protect the country, and to make a responsible decision by upholding the law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u27	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. We're in a situation where a lot of people are near the rostrum. I want to emphasize, I'm going to put the vote, I'm going to put it to a vote on the basis of deleting the part of the first part of Article 7, which mentions the Minsk Accords. Stop! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to stop. We're going to the vote. Everyone please take up their jobs. We're going to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u28	And so, colleagues. Stop, you! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm voting on the draft Law on the Characteristics of State Policy. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! On the balcony, kids. Stop! Children who look at you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u29	Draft Law on the Characteristics of State Policy for the State Sovereignty of Ukraine over temporarily occupied territories in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, deleting part of the first article 7, which mentions the Minsk Treaties (No. 7163). Colleagues, please back up, please vote. Vote, fellows! We recognize Russia as an aggressor! We recognize Russia as an aggressor! Let's vote, colleagues. Patriots, we vote, we recognize Russia as an aggressor! Vote! Please be supportive. [[10:29:26]] For 233 Decision taken. Russia is recognized as an aggressor! Decision taken. And we move on to the next draft of the Law on the Creation of the necessary conditions for a peaceful settlement of the situation in certain areas of Donetsk and Lugansk Region (7164 and 7164-1). I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote on the summary procedure. Please vote. [[10:30:10]] For 184 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President-in-Office of Ukraine, on the peaceful settlement of the situation in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrovna. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u30	First of all, I want to go to the rostrum and the guest room of Parliament and apologize to the Ukrainian children who are in this room today for the mess that adult uncles and aunts have had. Excuse them! And I want you to actually become MPs and demonstrate here a European culture of behavior. My dears, I'm sorry for what's going on in this room. And now I'm asking you to give me four minutes, as yesterday was given to all the reporters to report on this very important bill. Dear colleagues, in fact, the greatest confidence today exists in the Ukrainian army. And it's understandable why the army, not this parliament, where grown-up uncles, who belong on the front, have fought. So I want to bring in the words of the legendary Ghost Igor Gordijczuk, who passed Sauvur-Mogila, and yesterday on one of the channels he said, and there is no reason for him not to trust any man here: we have no opportunity to free the Russian-occupied. The territory is our only military path, we have to combine the diplomatic path and the military. And that's why our task with you today is to give energy, to give weapons to our army, and to give weapons to our diplomacy. In fact, the Minsk Accords, which so many people here are criticizing, are imperfect, and no one has ever acknowledged that they are geniuses, but they were adopted in dramatic conditions, after Ilovia, the second protocol was signed after Debaltz's. And it was the High Commander's responsibility, not those, you know, who threw his brothers to death, and the man responsible for the lives of his soldiers to save that life. And at those dramatic moments, 70 of our best guys died. The Minsk Accords have allowed life to be saved: 5 of our boys died in the last month. It's a big number, but 5, 8 says, 8 is a big number, every life is worth keeping. And here are those comrades who are here today breaking up a normal discussion of such an important issue and humiliating our diplomats yesterday when they said, "Let's throw them in the trenches!".. But you don't have the right to talk about our diplomats, you never, you know, saved anyone. So it's very important for us to take responsibility now and say the following: the law was adopted three years ago in the most dramatic conditions, and it helped give our diplomats diplomatic weapons, because only after that was sanctions imposed. This law did not enter into force because the Russian Federation did not implement a key security block. And this law is not bound by either the Speaker's signature or the President's signature, it's bound to a security block that, if not implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u31	Please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u32	So this law will never come into force. So, in fact, we don't vote on the law today, we give power to this law, we give power to our diplomats to have weapons and to continue sanctions. And the key point in the self-help law that she's proposing is to remove this item, is to remove the Kremlin's sanctions with our hands. That won't happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u33	I invite the secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence of Vinick Ivan Juryovich to report. Please, Mr. Ivan. Please speak up, the microphone is on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u34	Good morning, dear colleagues. You know, there's actually several fronts in Ukraine, there's a military front and there's a diplomatic-political front. On the military front, it's just as hard to win when the diplomatic and political element isn't on your side. The economic sanctions imposed against the Russian Federation are very important to the enemy's economy. We understand that the back of any army is an important component of this army's victory. We understand, of course, that in September 2014, there were few military instruments in Ukraine to confront the world's second largest army, the Russian army that had committed aggression against Ukraine, so the diplomatic front was at that point absolutely impeccable. At that time a law was adopted, consisting of ten articles, many of which have some resonance, and some have caused substantial resonance in Ukraine, in a conscious society. In fact, what we're doing today, we're leaving one article, 10th, 10th, I'm stressing this, nine articles will never work, I'd like to explain why. Dear colleagues, the point is that the bill proposes to extend the duration of this resonance law only in the part of Article 10 if all military formations are withdrawn from Ukraine and all other conditions of this article are met. One condition is the election of 2014, we live in 2017, aware lawyers, aware my colleagues understand that we are doing this exclusively for Ukrainian diplomacy to have the right weapons. I understand there's a lot of discussion here, but we need to support this today in order to secure Ukrainian diplomacy by requiring Russia to withdraw troops from occupied territories, to ensure Ukraine's control over its border. Please vote on the basis and in general, the committee recommends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u35	I'm asking you to sign up. Two-for-two-again. Alexeyev. Please. From the People's Front, he gives the word to the head of the faction of Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank everyone for supporting the first draft of the bill as a basis and, I'm sure, for all of us working together on the second reading. Regarding the position of the People's Front under Bill 7164, I would like to stress that the People's Front consistently supports the peaceful settlement of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, of course, if the settlement plan is consistent with the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine, Ukrainian national interests and international law. At the same time, it is unacceptable that the whole process of conflict resolution is to force Ukraine to make political decisions. The first and mandatory step should be to implement Russia as an aggressor country, the security provisions of the Minsk Accords. Ukraine is not violating its commitments to Minsk, but it is protecting itself. The heavy arms of the Ukrainian side remain where they were taken, according to the terms of the truce. Russia has not yet fulfilled any of its obligations. So we definitely can't move on to the political part of the deal, especially until there can be no talk of what's called an election in Donbassa. First, the military occupation, the verified exodus of the Russian forces and the control of Ukraine over the state border, the release of all prisoners of war, only then can other issues be discussed. The People's Front claims its strict condition. The provisions of the law of September 16, 2014, can only take effect after the complete final withdrawal of Russian occupying forces outside Ukraine, including the removal of all mercenaries and the disbandment of occupational authorities, the so - called republics. The procedure for verifying the withdrawal of the occupying forces will be established by Law 7163, which we have just voted on. And yet, Parliament will adopt its decision to start implementing the Law on the Characteristics of Local Self-Government in certain areas of Donetsk and Luhansk regions only after the implementation of all, I stress, all the provisions of article 10 of this law. This is also a requirement of the People's Front, which was included in draft law in paragraph 2. Let us unite together and begin to restore Ukraine’s territorial integrity. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u37	I'll give it to you, I'll give it to Sergei. Now the author of the alternative is Levchenk, two minutes and then Sergey Sobolev. Lechenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u38	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, capital of the Ukraine of Kiev. What's happening in this session room right now is evidence that the vast majority of the national MPs forgot about the oath they made three years ago. The oath in which they promised to defend the interests of the Ukrainian nation to defend the Ukrainian Constitution. Most of the national deputies forgot about the oath. It has just been approved, illegally, in the first reading, but Bill 7163 has been unlawfully passed, allowing for trade with the invaders. Which does not really fix Russia as a real invader, but just gives us declarative standards, and Ukraine will still be responsible for all socio-economic issues in the occupied areas. And now it's proposed to approve 7,164, the disgraceful draft of the President, which he proposes to continue its operation for a year of federal law, which has been approved by a previous summons, illegally. Turned off the board, turned off the council's broadcast, and normal laws don't get approved that way. Why was this approved? And because that law prescribes a national militia for fighters, the National Warlord's Office. This law prescribes the possibility of direct links between fighters and the Russian Federation, in fact, we do not have one. We will not have one international policy, but they will decide exclusively who and how to connect with whom. That law prescribes amnesty for criminals who kill our heroes in the east, and that's the law that prescribes it. If you are now voting for this, if you are even discussing it, you have forgotten your oath, you are all traitors of the Ukrainian nation, and you need to get divorced.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u39	Sergey Sobolev of the "Fatherland" faction is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, I think what's most interesting right now is not what happened to the longevity of the law, but what's interesting about the law that we're prolonging. I will read you some key articles that will work for another year if Parliament approves this decision. First article. The State guarantees under the law against criminal persecution, the criminalization of all participants in the events in Lugansk and Donetsk. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's what you're going to vote for! Second, paragraph 3: The appointment of prosecutors and courts will take place in agreement with local authorities. Third, the appointment of the national police will take place in agreement with the local authorities. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's how.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u41	Finish the speech. Finish the speech!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u42	Thus, in fact, by this law, which is now voted by the Opposition Block, the Peter Prashenko Block and the People's Front, you are pronouncing an act of the Law that actually legitimizes Russian occupation power in these territories. And you'll see on the board who votes for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u43	Thank you. Colleagues, next performance by the Radical Party Oleg Lazko. I'm asking very briefly because the poison gas was released into the hall. I'm asking you to speak very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u44	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Head, you want to be concise, I'll tell you in detail. The law, the term of action you continue, is unconstitutional, betrays the national interests of the Ukrainians and betrays the security of our state. The Radical Party faction is the only one who voted against this law in its entirety. A colleague comes out of BP and tells us that we need this law for diplomacy. Another tells us that we need this law for international allies. Neither diplomacy nor international allies can provide a basis for trade in Ukraine’s national interests. To change the constitutional order under pressure, change the Constitution and legalize Russian aggression in Ukraine. We are firmly opposed to the fact that the separatists, the Cuban mercenaries, are a local defect in Donbassa. We are definitely against the federalization of Ukraine. We are firmly opposed to writing the Constitution in Moscow or Minsk or Brussels or anywhere. The Ukrainian Constitution, the Ukrainian State Order, Ukrainian Life, the supreme sovereign is the Ukrainian People, so our team will vote against this law. But I would like to remind our colleagues who blocked Parliament yesterday's rostrum of one truth: Archives don't burn. Here are the results of the vote, the new edition of the Donbas Special Status Act, March 17, 2015, and all those, most of those who blocked the rostrum yesterday, voted in favour of the bill. [[Applause]] I have a question, I have a question: why didn't you vote against it? Why are you, Mrs. Siroid Oksana, why have you voted in favour? Mr. Semenchenko, why did you vote in favour? So that terrorists can be elected to legalize them as local authorities. Why didn't you vote? Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u45	Thank you. Colleagues, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u46	By this vote, why did you legitimize the Minsk agreements against which you are speaking today? Therefore, the Radical Party team does not support this bill. We are against the legalization of terrorists and the Russian occupation of Donbas.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u47	Colleagues, in view of the situation in the hall, I will give one minute more. One minute at a time. Now, please, from the Opposition Block, Boyko, then one minute is Berezuk, and then we're going to the vote, colleagues. BPP is Irina Lucenko. One minute at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u48	Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] The Act on the Special Status of Individual Territories was adopted three years ago and did not work for a single day. No day had ever passed since the law had been implemented for various reasons. But today, when I was talking about a compromise that must be in society in order to politically address the issue of the return of territories to the country, I was just thinking that we should adopt laws that pave the way for a peaceful settlement. And that's why we think that if there's an extremely important point in this law that the entire parliament should support, when foreign armed formations are put out, I'm focusing on foreign weapons formations! – from the territory of Ukraine, parliament should support this law if it really thinks about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u49	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u50	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u51	Beresuk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u52	For those who have fought for Ukraine for 15 years and are now in occupation. Everyone is sitting here, and the situation with the occupation of Ukraine is getting worse every day. This bill, this bill is a bill for the occupation of Ukraine, this bill for the voluntary surrender of Ukraine. This bill is for those who killed Ukrainians. Kills Ukrainian boys, we have to let them go and thank them for doing this. This bill is criminal. And if you remember 2015, then the president of Ukraine and the coalition talked about what we're going to be fighting, and in three years, they're practically giving up Ukraine. That is why this bill should never be voted on. And do not provoke Ukraine to trust you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u53	And, please, a closing statement from Peter Dustenk's Block, by Irina Lucenko's Peter Dusty Block. And let's go to the vote. I ask you to invite all the deputies into the hall and ask everyone to take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u54	Dear society, you've just watched as the self-help bastards, some Grishin, who is now covered in the Ukrainian name Semin Semenchenko, and yesterday's reserved FSB agent, who was here on the rostrum, wage war on our children, who are on top of us and who are watching this terrible fact. These are the people who lie to Ukrainian society for being in Ukraine. This is what they want to do, not only in the east, but also in the interior of the country, showing that we are incapable of doing anything. It is they who tell us that our armies must be removed from the front, put their hands down, and wait for us to be gone. This law is aimed at one thing: we can't deal with Russia on our own; we don't have military forces as strong as in militarized Russia. So we need sanctions, increased sanctions and continued sanctions. We need a strong international coalition to.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u55	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u56	so that Ukraine can show itself to be a real state. Shame on these bastards and support our peaceful Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u57	Thank you. Discussion's over, colleagues. I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft law on creating the necessary conditions for a peaceful settlement of the situation in certain areas of Donetsk and Luhansk region, number 7164. I'm the first to put the committee's proposal on the ground as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[10:52:06]] For 229 The law is passed. Colleagues, the law is passed, don't break up. I ask you to consider two more decisions. Attention! Stay where you are. The two decisions that we have to consider today are launching a pension reform that will give people their pensions. That's why I'm asking you to stay. We're moving on to the rulings. And I'm betting on the first one. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on adoption as a whole, as a bill amending the master procedural code of Ukraine, the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine (numbers 6230, 6232, 6232-P2 and 6232-P3). And I'd like to invite you. First, we should not vote on a separate procedure. I invite you to report first to the deputy head of the Committee of the Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich. Please. After all, it's one discussion after all three.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u58	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! At its meeting on 4 October this year, the Committee considered draft regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 3 October 2017 on the adoption, as a whole, of a bill amending the master procedural code of Ukraine, the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine and other legislative acts (registration No. 6232 of 6.06.2017), introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Levchenk Yuri (registration No. 6232-P of 3.10. 2017), Ukrainian National Deputies Sotnik, Žuriy, Podoljak, Siroid (registration number 6232-P1 from 4.10.2017), Ukrainian National Deputy Alona Shkrum (registration number 6232-P2 from 4.10.2017), and adopted the relevant conclusions. The procedure for revoking decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is defined by the provisions of article 48 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and, in particular, provides for the address of the Ukrainian National Deputy to the chairman of the plenary with a statement of violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules of Procedure, the submission of a written statement to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the same time as the adoption of the relevant draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. After reviewing the transcripts of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the committee concluded that the main arguments for the annulment of the decisions were: the violation of the non-personal vote by the people's deputies, the decision of the Main Committee did not correspond to the final text of the bill, and there was little room for a return to the motions for amendments. According to part of article 48 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the Committee adopted conclusions on the draft regulations proposed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u59	I'm sorry, a minute, please add.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u60	According to part of article 48 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the Committee adopted conclusions on the draft rulings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in which it suggested that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide whether to adopt them or reject them by voting in a session hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u61	Thank you, Your Honor. I apologize again for what's going on in the session room. In fact, in front of guests and journalists, we apologize for the fact that some of our colleagues do not think that they are citizens of their country and that they can be thrown in checkers. And I now give the floor to the co-report of this bill, my honourable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u62	The management of the Supreme Council of Chess wonders which of your colleagues almost choked everyone here. These are your opposition colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're moving on, dear fellows. And now we're writing down the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, I'm sorry. Helen, I'm sorry, I'm just looking. I'm sorry, you saw that I just took the papers and I'm on my way. Everybody calm down. We're moving in the daytime. Please, National Deputy Levchenko. He is one of the authors of an alternative bill. Please. All right, we're working in a normal parliamentary regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u63	Levchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev is the capital of Ukraine. "I swear on Ukraine's loyalty, I pledge all my actions to defend Ukraine's sovereignty and independence, to take care of Ukraine's country's welfare and well-being. I pledge to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all the countrymen." This is the oath of the Ukrainian national deputy, each of whom was present. But unfortunately, most of them don't, most of them spit on that oath, most of them spit on the Constitution. I now, that there would be no speculation from the Presidium, that there would be no speculation, that no one would be accused, I declare officially from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, and I take responsibility: I set that shaka smoke on fire, and, I think I did the right thing, because I would burn this parliament so that it wouldn't do what it does, those anti-constitutional things so that it wouldn't violate the oath so that you all don't abuse the Ukrainian people! So, yes! I set that checker on fire and set it on fire many more times so that these traitors wouldn't be here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u64	I ask you to stop the speeches that conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. Turn off the microphone, please. Turn off the microphone. All of it. Microphone. [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask you to take your place, you, as Ukrainian national deputy, must respect the Constitution of Ukraine and the law, not invoke it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u65	I'm doing the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u66	No, you're going to improve Ukraine's legislative system. I'm asking you to sit down. I give my word to the next author.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u67	I want to speak on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u68	You had your chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u69	I have 30 seconds, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u70	No, you don't have 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u71	30 seconds after this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u72	You're violating the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u73	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u74	You have spoken and you have violated the Constitution of Ukraine. To include 30 seconds and I ask the reporter to speak solely on the subject of his bill. The reporter refuses to report on the subject of the bill. I said 30 seconds if you're gonna talk about it. On the subject. By subject! If it's not on the subject, we're shutting it down. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u75	I'm on the subject. So this Bill 6232 is exactly the same policy, this one. The Supreme Council spent three years. For 3 years, this Supreme Council, both before and before it, works for only one percent of the citizens, exclusively the oligarchate and their listeners, who sit here. This bill is designed to dissuade corrupt courts from people so as to deny even the chance of justice in the judicial system. Do you want to surround yourself with serbers? You've paid the judges, the police, the prosecutors to protect yourself from the Ukrainian people, but you can't do it, Janukovich can't do it! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u76	I would like to point out that when the speaker follows the rules, it's for the benefit of working in the session room. I invite you to the floor of the honourable rapporteur for the next alternative bill, Mrs. Sotnik, Ms. Olena Sotnik. Then you, so I've got the chart. Helen Sotnik, please report to your alternate bill. Then there's Olena Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u77	Thank you. Unfortunately, I have to continue what Mr. Levchenko has just said, this is, indeed, a criminal bill that has been adopted in a criminal way. And by the way, the absence of a decision by the regulatory committee confirms that they know very well that there was a non-personal vote, which was a number of violations. I'm already talking about that committee that's been meeting and that's decided that all the amendments have to be returned and that I've actually returned the Lozov amendment, which should be closed down by all the criminal conduct in Midan, which has all the criminal conduct that applies to the national deputies in this room, closed criminal conduct on high-level employees and corruption. Four hundred thousand criminal conducts that are in the IMF, when the victims are actually without satisfaction when there is no punishment. They've returned a standard that actually makes it impossible for criminals to collect funds that they have not earned, so they've paid off with the Opposition Block for their votes. And after that, when the community raised the question when public organizations raised it, they said that you were simply destroying criminal justice, in fact the committee falsified the decision. And now you can see on the website that the committee wasn't going to, the committee wasn't voting, but it proposed its drafting of the bill. This is actually the destruction of parliamentaryism, because today we have a legalized fraud, crimes, crimes committed by the head of the committee. That is why I call on this Parliament to support one of the rulings because it is not possible for legal decisions to give rise to a right, to support one of the decisions and to correct the criminal situation, to vote on the draft in its proper form and to give the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u78	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u79	And allowing people to go to court, and justly defend their rights. I ask you, Parliament, do not hide behind criminal decisions, you have to make legal decisions, only in this way will people trust you, otherwise you turn into criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, thank you. Look, they're raising their hands there now, the parties, the factions that were mentioned. We go to alternate drafts, then everyone can sign up for the discussion and make a statement. And once again, dear colleagues, here's what I want to pay attention to. Now there's a very critical speech and it's normal, but it's going according to the rules. Let us act within the limits of the rules and political order of our normal high culture. Let's get to the show. I see your word, distinguished representatives of the Opposition Block, but you can only join the discussion. I now give the floor to the author of the alternative bill, Mrs. Aloni Shkrum. Mrs. Alona, please come to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u81	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, I am very pleased to hear today from the actual chairman of the session that we need to move by the rules, that we should not break the rules, and that when everyone moves by the rules, it is in favour of the country. Regrettably, this was not the case during the second reading vote for Bill 6232 of Amendments to the Procedural Codes. We've seen the buttonage and you can see it on the Internet, it's already on all the websites. We saw the opposition block vote in exchange for the votes made by the amendments that were returned by the committee. We saw that Mr. Parobia, who was then presiding at the meeting, had allowed the voting not in accordance with the Rules with all violations of the mandatory mandatory regulations and laws of Ukraine, the vote to amend, the vote to return to the 50 amendments that had been called here from the rostrum and voted in one second. Colleagues, come on, let's not be hypocrites, for the first time officially, I can say this, it was the first time that the committee's decision was falsified. Because the decision of the committee was not in line with what was stated here by the chairman of the committee from the rostrum and for which the Supreme Council then voted. Those amendments that the chairman of the committee from the rostrum noted and for which the Supreme Council of Ukraine subsequently voted were not in line with the decision taken by the committee. And I added a transcript of the committee's decision, a transcript of what was said at the Legal Policy Committee at the time, to my application to revoke the decision of this Supreme Council. Regrettably, the regulatory committee does not take responsibility either, colleagues, but someone has to take responsibility, for these violations, for someone has to be drawn to that responsibility. And the "Fatherland" faction requires an investigation into the fact that the committee's decision to falsify the committee's decision to falsify the committee's decision. And we can't afford, right now, not for this Council to adopt laws, but for the actual adoption of laws under false documents, according to the signatures of members of the Legal Policy Committee. It's totally unacceptable and I'm asking you to stop it, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u82	Thank you. Next alternative bill, Sergey Lechchenko. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u83	Dear Ukrainians! For weeks, when bottles of expensive champagne were ripped off at the Opposition Block, because this vote for the codes was actually rehabilitated, they actually returned a coalition of politicians who had been robbing the Ukrainian economy for decades, robbing the Ukrainian budget. They were removed on the sidelines after their emissary, the president, fled from Ukraine when Yanukovic, in fact, became an international criminal. This week, however, they were involved in the adoption of shameful amendments to codes. Only because the democratic forces refused to vote in favour of this disgraceful, directly meaning bill. A bill that allows all former regions to return to Ukraine because it reduces the deadline for investigation. And now these criminal conducts, which were discovered, were supposed to be closed after these amendments, for which the Opposition Block voted. But even they tricked them, because by including the voices of the Opposition Block and by reanimating them and putting them back into politics, then through a committee that had no authority at all, they canceled the same standards. So they double-crossed: first Ukrainian citizens, who were actually stupidized by all the latest events, and secondly, their new coalition partners from the Opposition Block, when what they voted for, then they cheated. And of course, it's not just a political evaluation, it's an expert evaluation. The same reanimation package of reforms directly indicates that this law, it will paralyze the criminal justice system. And he urges, this law, or cancel how we can do it now, or the President of Ukraine has to veto it. And what's going to be in the session room right now is what I'm asking you, distinguished viewers, to keep a close eye on the voting board, how every politician will press the button, whether they support the system of democracy and the rule of law in Ukraine, whether they support the treaty and conspiracy, the plot of the Peter Prashenko Block and the People's Front. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, all the authors of alternative drafts, drafts. Several times we mentioned "The Opposition Block." Please, Mr. Shurmi's microphone. Please, Mr. Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u85	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. You know, Ukraine is now being torn up from the outside, but just as it's being torn from the inside out, it's still a matter of learning in the world: with its own hands to exterminate the state. I'm now addressing those people who were one of the greatest warriors of the Communists. So it was their fate to sit on those chairs today. I'm talking to that faction: you're doing something "made," you're inviting a priest, you're dedicating places to not do anything stupid, because if you want to, you go to the Constitution for violation, and when you vote for anti-constitutional medical reform, you don't see the Constitution. Don't look for enemies, find a connection. You are responsible for all that is being done in Parliament because you were members of the coalition. If you're out of the coalition, make a statement, get rid of all your positions on the committee and get paid for it. And the man who turned into a district council in Donetsk dropped the checker today, she's with you today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u86	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u87	And so today, the Opposition Block, which everyone here in Parliament is trying to do the most and to do the most, and it's very often giving in to some principled thing for peace. They kill people, they kill not only Ukrainians, as it is emphasized, they kill Ukrainian citizens of different nationalities, just like the patriots of their country, like those who live both in the west and in the north and in the north of Ukraine. I call on everyone, stop looking for enemies, because the time will come for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u88	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we are moving to a vote. I'm asking you to keep busy. I'm sorry, I did, I didn't think there was any need to discuss -- there was a need to discuss. Please register with factions: two in, two in. Thank you. I'm sorry, I now give the floor to Mr. Opanasenko from. Oline Captain of Self-Help. [[B in m in s a l in]] Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u89	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u90	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Opanasenko Alexander is in the hall, unlike many other deputies. I want to turn now and take this opportunity to address the leadership of the Supreme Council. I'm not just asking, I'm calling for an official inquiry into the staff of the Legal Committee's secretariat and also according to the person who signed the committee's decision, who actually changed the final edition that was voted in this room. Because I think this is the key question: to save this Parliament from final degradation. So if we are criminally able to change the texts of the bills voted by the MPs and tolerate it, then we will become, excuse me, a "banana republic" and in fact this Parliament will be illegal. I believe that those who have done so should be held accountable. Accordingly, we have to answer who, like, how he forged this decision and went back directly to the vote, correct those mistakes that make it possible for criminals to escape responsibility and actually threaten that the people who died on Maidan, the people who died in the military, would not. Their killers will not be punished. That is why I am asking for the guidance of Parliament. [[B in m in s a l in]] I demand that you conduct a formal investigation, give an answer to who forged the committee's decision, and vote on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, there were several comments about the committee. And just then we'll give the committee a word. Now. Now from factions, then from committees. I'm going in the daytime. Please, the word "Knyazevitch" is given by Yuzanina. And first you come out of the faction. I'll let you sum it up later on the committee line. Please, Mr. Knazevitch. From the faction now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u92	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to explain the essence of the hysteria that is now taking place with the hall. Guys, we've been looking at the bill for three weeks. Do You Remember What It Was About? Closeness, not transparency, not terminology. Have you heard any mention of this? Do you know why? Because they didn't realize that before the vote, a committee had come together, where every member of the committee on the screen had a corresponding draft decision, where we had all these rules removed and suggested that they be removed. And all the amendments we've proposed to go back to, we're either in a new edition, or we're going to re-create the standard that the committee has proposed to Parliament in the Comparative Table. They just didn't get it. Now what do they want? They are most pained by the fact that we do not allow ourselves to return. Cancel the Maydan and the corrupts. They want them gone. They're demanding that we bring back that editorial that was at the very beginning of the 109th article. They won't have anything to pry about. We got them out of it. There were no violations. Each member of the committee who was present is members of the committee who are standing here, before you, living members of the committee who were present, and each of them. This is Mr. Tchakouk standing in front of me, showing that they had draft decisions and knew what they were voting for. Therefore, I am asking you right now, every member of Parliament must understand what he is voting for. Our committee invited Parliament to vote, and the Head put to the vote a decision on the adoption of the bill as a whole, taking into account the committee's decision. And that's why we don't see any disturbances. On the contrary, we are proud that we have been able by the committee to correct the relevant standards that someone has introduced and wanted these standards to remain in the bill. As for Midan’s affairs, it is a privilege to complete them and not try to keep on investigating them indefinitely. That's exactly why we're here. At the same time, this will not spread in the Maydan case, but will extend only to those matters that will be brought into the GDR three months after acquisition.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u93	I'm asking you to give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u94	Three months after the law came into force. And if you want us to be held accountable, we are ready for that responsibility. We will fight to ensure that Midan’s affairs and cases against corrupters are brought to a logical conclusion. What is more, we have suggested a formula that now the investigating judge can continue to investigate endlessly at the request of the investigator, as opposed to the situation that is already there, when it can only be done once. You don't want that either. Tell people the truth, and do not lie as openly as you have done so far.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u95	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Alona Shkrum gives the word Sergey Soboljevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u96	Mr. Ruslan, I have such a feeling that you've confused the committee meeting and what you've announced from this rostrum with what you're talking about. Would you like me to pick up a transcript of your performance? Article 109 goes back to the text. What are you talking about? 109 revisions. What are you talking about? 109 of the amendment returns to the text. You have read 36 amendments that the committee has returned to the text. And don't hide just 109 from Lozov from the Radical Party. It was returned to the text and to the amendment of Dudenkov, where you removed the right to confiscate property in third parties in a civil process for which everyone here shouted, "Let's confiscate Janukovic's property and his accelerants!" What right did you have not read the committee's decision if it was? You've announced a list of articles, and I've written them under the transcript. Take the transcript directly to the Supreme Council, where it is written: 109 articles and 36 articles are not in the new edition. Don't lie! There's a stenogram. In the paper they were in, they were brought back here. Now, to cover for myself, I don't know what place you're twisting and changing the terms of these? After the NABA, after the prosecutor investigating Midan's case tells you straight to your eyes, "What did you do?" After which IMF manager says I have to close tens of thousands of cases? It was a forgery. Without investigating this case, and there must be the Attorney General and the NAB who must establish this fact, there can be no signature under the law. And our faction will vote for this law to be repealed, returned to the hall and voted in an editorial that will be supported by a committee and a session hall. And there won't be any forgery then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u97	Thank you. There's still a show left from the Radical Party. Please, Mrs. Corchinska. Dear colleagues! I'm listening carefully, we're about to finish, Oksano, one minute, we're about to end up with factions. And then your faction takes the word and then the lines. No, no, no, they'll give you your word. Because that's where they were yelling. I'm creating a brilliant working environment for you. Please, Mrs. Oksana, it's your two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u98	Praise Jesus Christ! Now I'm not talking about the MPs or the small number of people who are fighting for our Ukraine right now. Now I'm talking to our angels, to our angels -- our boys who lost their lives on the front, to our angels -- MPs who aren't sitting in parliament right now, and most of them are flying on private planes, doing their own damn thing. I'm saying now that we're all going to die. This is the big secret I'm going to tell you -- we're all going to die. And after we're all dead, there's a court that you won't buy, you won't bribe, you won't set up, you won't give them any topic, you won't protect their relatives, and you won't offer them any office, it's God's judgment. All of you, the judgment of God awaits us all. And in the judgment of God you cannot be in the presence of the Lord, saying that you have done so, because that is what the faction has told you. You're not going to say you did it because it was a deal. You won't tell me what the Americans told you, and that's what the Europeans told you to balance. You're not going to tell me that you wanted to give Putin a gift with the hands of Americans and Europeans, and you've done a great deal because you think you're making this decision. The Lord has given us a great chance to save our country. In the judgment of the Lord, we shall all answer to the judgment one against another before the Lord. And on your right to choose, the way you press the button depends on what fate in our country that the Lord God has given us. Please don't forget this and everyone will have the answer And that is, if you have a chance now. There are MPs here who can't even stop court reform, unfortunately, because there's no one left. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u99	Thank you. Now the Opposition Block is one minute and the name of Dobrenkov is mentioned, another minute. Two minutes, Dudenkov. Please. And then we'll vote on the bill separately, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u100	Very good. Good morning, the venerable is so sick of a large number of societies. Ladies and gentlemen, here is my last name as to what was mentioned in Law 1018 regarding the need to raise the transcripts during the bill's vote. We voted Bill 6232, it's not perfect. But we were actively involved in drafting this bill, pending the introduction of rights to this bill. Because if we didn't get involved, the bill was much worse. As for the lifting of the transcript, the offer was read under the transcript, this is to Mr. Soboljev, 1018, I personally heard it. What if this was not taken into account, then, citizens of honor? This is article 1 of the Constitution: Ukraine is a rule of law. The right of ownership in accordance with article 41 is unalienable and inviolable. But what would happen if you didn't take Dudenkova into account? And the next thing you know, you don't have to cover up Yanukevitch and stick him everywhere. This rule has unlimited effect. It will apply to all Ukrainians and non - Ukrainians. That is, if there was any corruption in relation to which the relevant indictment was handed down and which was convicted of committing a corruption offence, the prosecutor's office in the context of a special confiscation would address any third person or legal person in civilian conduct if there was evidence that the property of this natural or legal person was not even owned, but simply used. If a former corrupter took a car to a friend’s home or spent some time in a certain room, it would be necessary to confiscate it. If you see this way of fighting corruption, it's a disgrace to you, because it's not the path of democratic countries and the way to fight corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u101	Thank you. Colleagues, we're done talking. The only thing that the two committees insist on, as mentioned here, is a moment of clarification also for the deputies, for our distinguished voters. Please have a regulatory committee. I invite Mr. Aresonkov to the floor. Please come out of the place. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I am now addressing all speakers, and I ask that you be correct in assessing the activity, in this case, of the regulatory committee. I would like to remind you that the Regulatory Committee, by its decision, acknowledged that, in a perfectly legal and legal manner, all national deputies, in accordance with article 48 of the Rules, had submitted their petitions and applications to the address of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and had prepared a draft of the relevant rulings. And I also remind you that all the observations made by the national deputies and in accordance with article 48 of the Rules are taken into account, this question is referred to the session room as provided by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u103	Thank you for your clarification. Is there a need for a profile committee? None. Yeah? Dear colleagues, we're going to go to the polls, we're going to move with you in order to get the bill registered. And the first draft of the decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 3.10.2017 on the adoption as a whole of the bill on the amendment of the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Judiciality and other legislative acts. The registration number, first of all, 6232 is the national deputy of Levchenka. Please, let's vote. [[11:25:27]] For-39 There is no draft decision. The next draft of Decree No. 6232-1 is an alternative, with the same long name, is the bill of the People's Deputy, Olena Sotnik. Please vote, please identify yourself. [[11:25:59]] For-44 44 deputies supported the bill, draft Decree 6232-P1 does not pass. The next draft of the decree, with the same name, but number 6232-P2 is the draft decree of the People's Deputies, Alona Shkrum. Please vote, be determined. [[11:26:35]] For-49 There's no support for your bill, draft decision, more loyally, Mrs. Alona. And the next draft of Decree 6232-P3, with the same name, draft decree, national deputy Sergei Leschchenka. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:27:04]] For-45 45 votes. The decision is not supported. Dear colleagues, let me draw your attention to the annual observance in October of the day of the fight against breast cancer. That's why, on behalf of the IFO "Equal Opportunities" today, MPs and members of this important interfractional group wanted to take advantage of the opportunity and draw the attention of national MPs, government officials, journalists, just Ukrainian citizens to this problem in Ukraine. Breast cancer is the most common cancer, and one woman dies every hour of this disease in Ukraine. So pink ribbons, these pink ribbons today on the Ukrainian National Deputies, on the guests of the Supreme Council, represent attention to this important issue. We want to go on behalf of the IFO "Equal Opportunities" to all Ukrainian women with a request, take care of your health, you need Ukraine, and please remember to go through appropriate preventive reviews. We also want to ask men to support women in this very important position that such reviews should be conducted each year. And we want to call on the government, and Parliament is here to unite to find funding together to prevent this terrible disease that kills many Ukrainian women each year. And now, dear colleagues, after this announcement and an important statement, we continue to count in order of the day. We have another draft decree to consider, this is the draft Decree No. 6614-P repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 03.10.2017 on the adoption as a whole of the bill on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on pension increases (registration No. 6614). And I invite you to the rostrum of the People's Deputy Levchenk, who is the author of this bill, and then the co-reporter will report, Mr. Aresonkov. Mr. Levchenko. He's gone. I would like to ask the co-rapporteur, but you understand that the relevant law has been passed, and Deputy Lechchenko has taken advantage of his legislative right, he has made a draft decision repealing this decision, and we are now considering this decision. Please, Mr. Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u104	Madam Chairman, the country's distinguished MPs of Ukraine! At its meeting on 6 October this year, the Committee considered a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 3.10.2017 on the adoption as a whole of the bill. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (Retirement No. 6614) of 22 June 2017, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine Yuri Lewchenk (Registration No. 6614-P) of 4.10.2017 and his application to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The procedure for revoking decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is defined by the provisions of article 48 of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and, in particular, provides for an appeal by the Ukrainian national deputy to the chairman of the plenary meeting with an application for a violation of the Rules, a written application to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the simultaneous introduction of the relevant draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Having considered the materials, the Committee concluded that the main argument for repealing the above-mentioned decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was that, according to him, during the consideration and adoption of decisions on amendments and proposals to the bill, the head of the Dennis Committee had amended the text of the bill, as set out in the transcript of the plenary meeting on 3 October 2017. After examining the transcript of the plenary session of October 3, the Committee noted that the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions of Denisov had read from the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s rostrum for stenography, proposals and amendments to the bill’s registration number 6614 when it was adopted on second reading and as a whole, for which it had voted 288 people’s deputies in Ukraine. According to part eight of article 48 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the Committee adopted a conclusion on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in which it suggested that the Supreme Council decide whether to accept it or reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u105	Do you need another hour? Yes, dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this determination? There is no need to discuss the decision. And then, Mr. Head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-06-m0.u106	Then, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 03.10.2017 on the adoption as a whole as a bill on amending some Ukrainian legislation on pension increases (number 6614-P). Whoever supports this decision, please vote. [[11:32:34]] For -14 It's not a decision, colleagues. And that opens the way for pension reform, to raise pensions for our citizens. Dear colleagues, me. There are government representatives present, I want to apologize to them, we have an incident today in the hall and, unfortunately, it's incredibly difficult to work in the hall. I would like to report that, according to article 51 of the Ukrainian Rules and under technical circumstances, I am forced to close the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I announce the closing of the morning meeting of the plenary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And, dear fellows, I would like all of us today to rethink what has happened and not to bring Parliament closer to its destruction. All the patriotic forces, all the statesmen, must realize what was happening in the hall today is unacceptable. We must not allow anyone to destroy the Ukrainian Parliament and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the most difficult times, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has always been the basis for saving our nation. I would like everyone to reconsider, and when we meet for the second plenary meeting, we come in a different mood than we try to sow in the hall today. Thank you, colleagues. Good-bye.
