ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. In addition, I inform colleagues that the placement of posters in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a gross and cynical violation of the Rules. Please come in and take your seats and prepare for registration. So, please prepare for registration and please register, colleagues. Please register. [[10:04:14]] A total of 333 national deputies were registered. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, there is now a Day of Local Self - Rule in Ukraine. It is a national holiday of independence that marks the condition of the Ukrainian State. Thanks to the reforms adopted by the Ukrainian Parliament, decentralization of the community can now plan and implement projects that stimulate local development, improve the quality of life of people and are a reliable investment in the future of the country, in the development of the entire national economy. A strong community is a strong state. I sincerely welcome everyone to the festival, with the Day of Local Self-Government, colleagues! Let's welcome our colleagues. And, dear fellows, I'm going to ask your attention, and I'm going to try to explain the logic of today. So they can listen carefully to all the factions, and the first question we're going to finish is this bill, which we didn't finish yesterday, 5294. There's a little bit of right there. And I think it'll take about 10 to 15 minutes. The next is an important law on Local Self-Government Day, which is the Law on Voluntary Unity of Territorial Communities (6466). There's only seven lines. You recall how much support he had during the first reading. And I think it's going to take a little time and it's going to be a very important sign for local communities. Then I will recommend the draft Law on the Service of Diplomacy, as we agreed, only on the basis of the Law on the Service of Diplomacy. Colleagues, then we'll have a day-to-day session. The first part of the day’s session is the laws that apply to the moratorium. Continue the moratorium on the sale of land. They will be included, and the first question they will be asked will be the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. After the fourth law, when there's enough MPs to concentrate. It's going to be 11 o'clock. It's probably 11 o'clock. According to the Rules, there's supposed to be an entry for lunch, a review after lunch. But when we do, we will consult with you. There'll be about 10 laws for the day session, and then we'll go to the budget code first. One more. The law on the moratorium for extension. The continuation of the moratorium on the sale of land will be considered today and will be accepted today. This is the main message. Then we'll consult technologically. Next. We'll start with the Budget Code. Then we'll go to the Tax Code and then to the budget. The budget code is ready, the Tax Committee is still preparing. And we're going to be able to, during the interval that we're going to have between the bills, pass on social laws for the vote. My colleagues, I think I've explained enough. For more technological advice, you can come along, let your representative come along, and I'll tell you. Now we're moving on to the continuation of our work. We didn't finish Bill 5294. And I'm asking a committee representative to come into the hall and take a seat. prepare the report, and I ask the right-wing authors to prepare for the discussion. So, colleagues, logic is common sense. Yeah? That makes sense. This logic predicts that in the course of the session: (a) the question of moratorium will be included; (b) I would also like to say that I would like to move the question of "Buy Ukrainian" so that we can look at it more quickly. And I would ask, just so that there's a common understanding, today we have a unique opportunity to adopt the budget at the time of the law, not in the middle of the night, but on our regular working day. But, nevertheless, colleagues, I will ask that we vote that today the Supreme Council of Ukraine will work until the adoption of the budget. Will this be supported, colleagues? I address all factions. Until the budget is adopted. Maybe we won't be able to make it to six, maybe we'll take it a little bit longer, and I'll ask all my colleagues to support it. And I'm also going to ask you today to support the Parliament Reform Act: 20 committees. We corrected it during "Mone Dialogues," we left only the number, we ruled out the relationship between committees and ministries. And I will also ask the deputies to support this law today. And now we're going to continue our consideration of the draft Law 5294. And I invite the rapporteur to the rostrum – the first deputy head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy and Sports, Mikol Romanovic. Please, Mr. Mikolo. Let me remind you: yesterday we finished our review of 349th Amendment. And now I'm going to keep calling the revisions, and I'm going to ask the right-wing authors to come forward and call their amendment number. We work colleagues, please. So 349. Don't insist. 377th. Irina Lucenko. Don't insist. 416th. Don't insist. Please turn on the microphone. Please, colleagues! I beg you now, Irina Heratchenko gives the floor to the sound of the amendment. Please, Ira. And, colleagues, in a few minutes we're going to the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall and ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite deputies. So 332 revisions. Svetlana Zalczyk. Please turn on the microphone to get out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I want to use this moment to speak not on amendment 332, but on the whole of the law that we are about to pass. A hundred years ago, women could not vote in elections, they had no election rights, and then churches around the world actually supported men in their defense of their interests that women were truly an inferior part of mankind. Because of this, many women who actually fought for their election rights were put in prison. Now it seems absurd to us, it seems to be "sir," but then, a hundred years ago, it was an absolute reality. I see, now, exactly as well, the fundamental fears and stereotypes of the people's deputies in this room, not of society, and of some of the national MPs, do not allow us to fully adopt legislation and ratify the Istanbul Convention with a tender, and sexual orientation, as required by our commitments to the Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u3	Give me 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u4	The adoption of this law with excluded progender terms and sexual orientation will not be adopted by the Council of Europe and will be condemned by the international community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would very much like to appeal to the honourable leaders of the factions now, to everyone. Please, Your Honor, Oleg Valeriyovich, I would like you to listen to me at this moment. I want to. We're discussing this bill and I want to thank everyone first for what we've really done with you to combat gender stereotypes and sexism. And even the political forces that took their retrograde position yesterday are changing today, it's very right. We are now adopting a very important law aimed at combating domestic violence. It's, you know, the subject is serious, it's very problematic and difficult, and what are they trying to remove from this law? Now, I want to go to all the factions here -- colleagues, listen! - two phrases want to remove "gender-based violence" and "gender stereotypes." Friends, if we don't correctly diagnose that this exists, we won't give a mechanism to solve this problem. Would you please raise your hand in this session room, who will not agree with me that we have gender stereotypes? For example, if raped, the rape victim was in jeans, there would be fewer questions in society than if she were in a short skirt or with a different cleavage, that's a gender stereotype. It's not just about women, it's about men. You know, in this room, a lot of men are writing on Facebook right now, and welcome me, and I have a baby, which is great. But raise your hand, which one of you was on a specific vacation after a child’s specific vacation? One up, good job.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u7	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u8	I'll go through all the adjustments. But read, the same Mark Zuckerberg, he's going on a specific vacation for a month after raising a little child, and it's normal for us to overcome these gender stereotypes with you. Friends, gender - based violence affects children because it is often the child in the family who suffers the most from violence because they feel that it can be humiliated, that it is small. And so without these definitions, which are in other laws, we have in the Education Act, which we recently adopted, this definition. Gender stereotypes, gender-based violence -- that's what this law is about. There's nothing else to talk about. It's about -- it's about a law on human rights -- that you can't humiliate a woman for gender stereotypes, that you don't like what she looks like. Whether a child should be humiliated by these gender stereotypes or not, the husband should be humiliated. So, colleagues, our request from the IFF "Equal Opportunities" is this: let's go back to a few fundamental amendments that just leave these definitions in the law, and we'll support it with them. And if we don't agree to that, we suggest that we re-read the second reading to hold consultations and vote in a week. But it's a very good law. Darling, he's very right! We're asking you, look, it's about six amendments that we're making just these. We would like to thank Irina Lucenko, who today is engaged in a very serious fight against gender-based violence, domestic violence. Let's just go back to these definitions. Please refer to amendments 4, 6, 8, 10, 17 and other amendments to the text that simply identify these positions: gender stereotypes and the fight against gender-based violence, it's the fight against violence against women, children and men, there's no "destructive destruction". Please hear me! Let's not put our legislation back in terminology with you. I ask, please, both the reverend Oleg Laishka, and the honourable Oleg Barezuk, and the venerable Yuri Boyka, and the venerable Maxim Burbak, and the venerable Arthur Gerasimov and your factions: let's vote for the law with the modern normal definitions that match what exists. We will fight stereotypes ourselves, and society will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u9	So, colleagues, now I'm going to give my word to the initiator, Irina Lucenko, the committee representative, and then we're going to the vote. Two minutes. The final one will be a representative of the committee. Now I'm giving Irina Lucenko the opportunity to speak. From the place, from the place, Mrs. Irina. Then he's a representative of the committee, and then we vote. I ask everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs. Irina Lucenko's microphone, please. Come on, no cards, let's get out of the rostrum. Mr. Mikola Romanovich, give Irina a minute to step out of the rostrum, wait, then I'll give you my word. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, during the first vote, after. When voting for this law in the first reading, at the request of the Hall, all the remedies concerning gender, gender stereotypes and so on were removed. It was a requirement of all factions that this law as a tool allowing every woman, every child, every man, every older generation, to be subjected to domestic violence, to realize their moment of protection -- it's also the creation of shelters, it's also the creation of a hot line, it's also a legal secondary aid, it's also a narrative that the police require to protect the victims of domestic violence, it's all created. In order to consolidate the hall, we removed these by replacing the word "sex violence" with the notion of "equal opportunities and rights of men and women" to balance the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u11	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u12	The National Deputies introduced the relevant regulations. These amendments were not supported yesterday, so this law remained the way it was introduced into the committee room. Please understand what a serious problem this is. I spoke yesterday about 3 million children who are witnesses and victims of violence. I was talking about 165 thousand women who get into trauma every year. I was talking about 1.5 thousand women dying at the hands of their husbands. I was talking about children with disabilities. I was talking about an older generation who succumbed to domestic violence. A problem that is not just Ukrainian, which is a world problem. One person on the planet suffers from domestic violence every 106 seconds. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to settle down and support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u13	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u14	And support this bill in committee drafting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, Mikola Bigwich, one minute. And let's go to the vote. I'm asking everyone to take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u16	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The committee didn't propose to delete the term "gender," it was the decision of the session hall, and we had to respond to our colleagues' decisions. However, we believe that the State must stop domestic violence, which primarily affects women and children. If we postpone this bill or we don't vote for it, how many more women and children have to die because of a discussion about the term "gender"? I am addressing you not only on behalf of the committee but also those women and children who suffer from domestic violence. Please support this bill and vote against domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u17	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. Please, we're taking up jobs. As long as the MPs come in, Suslov, one minute. Please take your seats, come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, in 2011, Ukraine signed the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence and the Combating of Domestic Violence. This means that at the international level we have undertaken to ratify it and have committed ourselves to implementing the convention’s provisions for national legislation. The draft Law 5294 on Prevention and Opposition to Domestic Violence is a prerequisite for ratification of the Istanbul Convention. I would like to point out that I would like to support Madam President Irina Heratschenko, once again, to ask for confirmation of the amendments that define such terms as gender equality, the sexual orientation that are already contained in the texts of the bills voted by this Supreme Council today. Without these definitions, without gender stereotypes, we will not be able to ratify the Istanbul Convention, more faithfully, it will not be seen as an implementation. Please consider this and put it down, let's vote on the text of the bill with these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u19	Colleagues, the discussion is over, and we're still doing it very sumptuously. I want everyone's attention. No, there's no factions now, it's the right-wing authors. I'll explain the logic, colleagues. When we adopted the law in the first reading, there was a requirement to remove certain positions. And that's how the committee worked. We went through all the revisions, after the completion of Irina Lucenko, at first Irina Heratchenko offered to return to the 4, 6, 8, 10, 17, and Irina Lucenko and the committee were asked to vote as prepared by the committee. We have to solve this issue by voting. So I'm going to go first, who's to go back to the lines that Irina Heratchenko listed. If there's enough votes to go back and confirm them, then I'm going to put a bill with those rights. If I don't have enough votes to go back and confirm it, I'm going to put a bill without these rights. Do you understand the logic? So I'm voting on Irina Heratschenko's proposal to go back to the 4, 6, 8, 10, 17, which were rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[10:28:44]] For 169 We're not back. And now I'm putting the draft Law on Prevention and Opposition to Domestic Violence (5,294) in the way we discussed it, in the second reading and in general in the version that was presented by the committee. 5294 in second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Voting colleagues, please support. Vote. [[10:29:21]] For 237 The law is passed. Colleagues, the next law is incredibly short: seven rights. So I ask no one to leave the hall. We're moving on to the next issue of the agenda. This is a draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Voluntary Integration of Territorial Communities on the voluntary integration of the territorial communities of villages, settlements into the territorial communities of cities of regional importance (6466). Colleagues, it's Local Self-Government Day. Good sign and good signal. And I invite the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of Fedorok Mikola Trochymovitch to report. Please, Mr. Mikola. Just seven right-handers, please don't break up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Andrew Volodymyrovich! First of all, let me welcome all of you to the Local Self-Government Day and demonstrate that we are supporters of local self-government by adopting this very important law, not difficult, but waiting for hundreds of thousands of communities in our state, hundreds of communities in our country. Following the commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government considered, at its meeting on 6 December, the comments and proposals made by subjects of the right to legislative initiative before the draft Law of Ukraine amending the Law on the Voluntary Association of Territorial Communities on the Voluntary Association of Territorial Communities of Rurals, the Settlements to Territorial Communities of Areaal Meaning (Registration No. 6466), submitted by the People's Dechtirčuk and others and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following a first reading based on 16 November of this year. A second reading of the bill from 8 Ukrainian national deputies included nine suggestions, three of which were proposed, two taken into account, and one rejected. The general discussion concluded: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending the Act on the voluntary integration of territorial communities on the voluntary integration of territorial communities of villages, settlements into territorial communities of cities of regional importance (registration number 6466) as a result of the second reading to be adopted in the second reading and in general. In the event of the adoption of the bill in the second reading and in general, we propose to entrust the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, when preparing it for signature to the Head of the Supreme Council, with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to undertake its technical and legal work. The final draft of the bill is being prepared with the observation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u21	Thank you. Just a few changes. I'll read them. I'll read them all. And I ask everyone to come into the hall, because the discussion will be very brief. So, 3rd, Nesterenka. 1st. Olena Scrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u22	Schrome Allona, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, today is really the celebration of local self-government, the day of local self-government. In doing so, I would like to take this opportunity to say that we have a bill on the service of local self-government, which is in this Council for more than a year, which is committed by Mr. President of two amendments, and we cannot vote on it. Colleagues, the best gift for local self-government, for regional development, for mayors, for small and small cities, for villages, for new united territorial communities, would be the adoption of a new European Law on Service in Local Self-Government Authorities, supported by the Association of Cities, supported by European partners, which continues to reform government. Instead, unfortunately, we are considering a small bill today because we have nothing to give local self-government. We still mention local self - government once a year on this day. Colleagues, please, I call for a day-to-day service in local self-government, and I urge the President to stop blocking this important bill. Thank you. I don't insist on correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u23	Thank you. I just want to remind you, we're mentioning more than once a year, we've adopted a few principles of importance for the development of self-government this year. Not all issues have agreement, but we have passed very important laws this year, and for this we have personally thanked many community representatives. So 3rd. Don't insist. 6th. Yvchenko. Turn on the microphone. 6 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, first of all, I'd like to welcome everyone to the Local Self-Government Day. And on the other hand, to say that you're one-handedly conducting laws on voluntary union, and on the other hand, you're completely destroying local self-government. You're actually running a law on joining the district today. to the cities with a region value, to join. This means that the village council will not have its own representative on the local council. If they are 5, 6, 7, they will not hold elections that will directly give their representatives to local councils. The other one. I want to say that we've suggested that if the population joins, if it's more than 30 percent of the city's population goes directly to the area, then there's an election in the local council, and there's a reelection of the heads. And that's right. This is voluntary and directly corresponds to local self - government. In fact, you're destroying it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u25	Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Vadim, dear colleagues, this law is not about unity but about association, and nothing is destroyed here. If a community does not want to join a city of district importance, no one will force it. And that's why. Don't make me do it. This is all voluntary. That's the first one. The other one. It's very easy to get around your amendment. If, for example, several villages around the area want to join, for example, five can do so not once, but gradually, during each month, and this is easy to get around. So this does not destroy anything, does not destroy local self - government, does not violate the principle of volunteering. And if there is to be a re-election of the head or the council, it takes decisions of the council and those communities that want to join. It will be a union, not an association, and it is not a subject of regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u27	Do you insist on voting? Do you insist on voting? No, no, we're not talking. You insist, don't you? I'm putting to the vote amendment number six of the national MP Yvchenka. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please. [[10:37:10]] For-69 69. The decision is not made. And, colleagues, the final amendment is final. After this amendment, there will be a vote. That's why I'm asking you to fix it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u28	SergeyYevtushek, faction of "The Fatherland. I also want to welcome today all those who are ministers of local self - government bodies, all those who are concerned with this difficult matter. I would like to welcome the Association of Ukrainian Cities, which is also accompanied by the work of local governments, with this beautiful festival. At the same time, I want to say that whatever it is, the law should voluntarily join the communities. And so I made such an amendment that the integration of the territorial communities, villages, settlements into the territorial communities of cities is of the utmost importance voluntary and is followed by the decision of all the relevant local councils. Why the committee rejected this amendment is not clear. After all, the law clearly shows that it is a voluntary union, not an association with the city’s heads to go to the polls. I'm asking you not to vote, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u29	He doesn't insist on voting. But, Mr. Mikola, will you comment? Let's go faster. Okay. Please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u30	I'll explain why I turned it down. The point is, what you're saying is that it's all governed by the basic law -- the principle of volunteering. And yours is just a statement of fact, it's just a political position, it's not a legal term.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u31	And, colleagues, it's the 8th Amendment. Goose. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u32	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! First of all, welcome to the celebration of all employees of local self-government in Ukraine. As far as this bill is concerned, it allows us not to hold new elections if we join villages and villages in district centres and district subordination cities, which is a useful thing, and we will support it. My amendment provides an opportunity, and it makes it more clear that there is no new election of the city's head in the event of accession. The edit is partially counted, but I ask you to consider it fully and put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u33	Thank you. Mr. Mikolo, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u34	The committee has decided to take partial account, and there's the next amendment, MP Espenova, and it's repeating itself. It's accounted for, and it's stipulated, this law, I would ask you not to insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u35	So you insist on voting? Don't insist. Okay. And for confirmation, Ivchenko, name the amendment number.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to say again, the law is called "voluntary unification," there is no joining here -- this time. The other one. We're talking about if rural, rural councils and the population of cities of district importance, or if district subordination cities go up by a third, elections are to be held. It's fair, honest to those territorial communities that join, because they have to have their representatives on the appropriate local councils and they have to vote for the city's respective head, the village head, and that's true. You are not allowing the local self - government that you have today. Join, mother of representatives, don't give up the village, the village. And if there's five or six of them, you're freezing elections in these territorial communities for two years -- that's the wrong approach, that's the direct lobbying of cities of regional importance that will join tens of thousands of hectares of agricultural land and they won't have, rural councils, representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u37	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u38	Dear colleague, I repeat: this is not the subject of regulation of this law. If a community does not want to join a city of district importance, it will conduct a process of unification that is governed by the basic law, and this law, the amendments, propose accession. If he does not, they will be holding elections and deputies and city heads in the event of a merger. That's why you're not exactly right, Mr. Wadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u39	To confirm the 7th amendment? But 7 amendments, if I'm not mistaken, it's rejected, it can't be confirmed, 7 revisions. Nine. So, I'm putting a motion on the vote to ask for confirmation of the 9th amendment, MP Espenov, and the committee considered it in part. Vadim Yvchenko insists not to be counted at all. No, not to be counted. So whoever supports Ichchenk's proposal, please vote. Nine for confirmation, I've called it twice if you'd been careful. Please vote. [[10:43:11]] For 1052 So we're going to the vote in general, the discussion is closed. I ask you to take your seats, prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall and take your seats. So we have found a compromise solution that unites the entire hall, and now we have a chance to take an important step toward developing local self - government. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Voluntary Association of Territorial Communities on the Voluntary Integration of Rural Communities, Cities to Territorial Communities of Regional Value (6466) on the second reading and as a whole. Please vote, please support, support local self-government, colleagues, vote! Please be supportive. Vote! Please be supportive. [[10:44:33]] For a hundred and Not all colleagues have arrived, I ask you to enter the hall, this is an important moment for self-governance. I see we haven't made it. We'll be right back, colleagues. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision, and please show by factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 72, People's Front – 56, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 16, Radical Party – 15, Father's Party – 0, Will of the People – 6, Rebirth Party – 5. Colleagues, I think the question of mobilization, we've taken into account all the proposals that have been made, but the discussion is over, I'm asking you, colleagues, to maximize. I'll be back in a minute. Mr. Mikolo, I'm asking you to explain to the MPs who didn't understand the 9th amendment. And please invite the deputies into the hall. On the day of local self - government, we cannot betray local self - government.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u40	Dear National Deputies! This bill awaits the tens of hundreds of communities of our nation. And he's not taking anything from the point of view of volunteering. If anyone wants to join in, he will join in, and whoever wants to unite, he will be united under another law. And elections will be held for both the city’s united community of heads and deputies. And these are the only ones who want to join without an election. This is done by an elder or a village head who serves as an elder. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u41	Fellows with a point of view, come to me. Come to me! Yes, if you can come to me. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Can we vote? Can you vote? Colleagues, if I give my word to one group or faction now, I'll have to give it to everyone. This will take 15-20 minutes, colleagues. Can you reconcile with the committee? You're a couple of meters apart. If I give my word to one, I must give to all factions and groups. We're done here. So I have a simple question: Have you clarified all the positions? We've made it clear, haven't we? All right, colleagues! I ask everyone to take up their jobs, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote for the draft Law on Voluntary Unity of Communities (64). [[B in m in s a l in]] So I'm putting the vote back to 6466. And I ask you to vote and please support the return to 6466. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. [[10:48:55]] For 209 I very much ask the author of the amendment and Mikol Fedoruk to clarify the situation among himself. I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'll put you back in, please. Please, from the Fedoruk Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you vote in general on what happened in the committee. Please put Andrew Volodymyrovich to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u43	Yes, no, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u44	Go back and vote in committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u45	Mr. Mikola! [[B in m in s a l in]] So the committee's proposal is that we go back to 9 and confirm it. I'm asking the committee representative to come up to the rostrum and be here. Mikola Fedoruk, Mikola Fedoruk, please come back and be here. We don't have a vote like "the committee's editorial." I understand you've offered to return to the 9th Amendment. Now I'm going to give Yvchenkov another word for my 9-way position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u46	Colleagues! Colleagues! Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. To help you understand what the question is today. This is the battle for the land of those communities that are located directly near the cities of regional importance. They join 3,000 acres [3,000 ha] of land, joining the territorial community. They don't have a deputy, they don't affect the head of the country, they don't have two years. The two-year term of office of the College is suspended in these communities. Where, then, is the volunteerness of unity? They took the money first, then. Now you're taking the land, and now you're taking the representation! What are you doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u47	So, colleagues, come on. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give all the factions a minute, colleagues. I'll give all the factions. The Motherland has already spoken. "Rebirth." Please name someone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u48	Vasile Guljava, group "The Rebirth Party." Is this to say that this law will be a gift for local self - government? If it can be a gift, it can only be a "gift." Today, when the communities are joined, there will be no elections. There will be no elections, and there will be no members of the community left. The main thing is that there will be no representative mandate left. And my colleague said it was true that this land, which is in those villages, would be torn apart by 2020. And you have to understand that voluntary unification of communities remains only in the title of the law "voluntary union," but it is not a voluntary union. If we want to make a gift to our deputies and our country heads, and all of us, we should not vote in favour of this bill and make it law today. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up. Do not uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u49	People's Front. Who's from the People's Front? Bourbuck, right? The faction's head. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! Let us speak, not with emotion, but with facts. I'm a national MP from 204 major constituency. The city of district importance is Novonistrovsk, all the villages have been around for about two years, as decided on the consolidation and creation of the Novonistrov Joint Territorial Society. And only this bill stands in the way of the first elections in this community. Instead of giving gifts, let us do our job and give the community a chance to voluntarily unite, hold elections, and create powerful communities. And don't fool the land, the mandates, anything. Vote, and they will see your attitude toward the new voluntary communities. Vote in favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u51	Thank you. From Self-Help. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u52	Lubomir Zubac, Self-help faction. Dear colleagues, let us not invent, fantasize or see in the bill what is not there. There's no, it's not about the land, it's not about the elections, it's not about everything else. There is only the possibility of choosing for rural communities, for suburban villages, or for connecting with other villages, or for connecting with the city. The only thing that's regulated by this law is the nagging of a stupid rule that says that when a village or two of them join a millionaire city or, in principle, a city of district importance, you have to hold an election, that's all. So let's not talk about the land that's in your heads. Let's think about services that are good for residents of villages, villages, cities, and we need to adopt this law. And don't fantasize, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u53	Dekhtyrczuk, he's already notified. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u54	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the purpose of this bill was to unlock the process of forming united communities around the cities of regional importance. To date, promising plans - and observatories, district councils are stopping the process of forming united communities right around the cities of regional importance. Cities of regional importance have great financial potential. They can take advantage of this potential by sharing it with the surrounding rural areas. So do not see the earth here or any of your own political interests. Support local self - government, not in words, but in practice. Support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u55	So, colleagues, factions were exchanging thoughts. Once again, I ask the committee head to make an offer on how we can get out of this situation and then we'll move on to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u56	Dear National Deputies! Please return to your consideration of the 9th Amendment. And go back to the law to vote on the ninth amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u57	So, colleagues, pay attention! Come on, let's get this over with. It's an incredibly difficult day for us today. I was told that this law had full support. This is taking too long. So, colleagues, now I'm asking you all very carefully, I'm going to put once again back on the draft. Then I'm going to put to the vote the committee's proposal to return to the 9th amendment. If there are no votes, I will propose to the committee for a second reading again, colleagues. So be careful! Everybody hears me, right? I suggest we go back. Then I will put to the vote the committee’s proposal to return to the ninth amendment. If we don't come back, then I'm going to propose to the committee for a second reading. If we go back, we'll vote. So I'm re-voting the proposal to go back to the law. Go back to the law. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, every voice has weight. Please support the return to Law 6466. I ask everyone to take part in the vote and to vote very carefully. We're voting for the return. We're voting for our return. [[10:58:02]] For 233 So we're back. 233, we're back. I now put to the vote the committee's proposal to return to the vote for Amendment 9. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please support me to return to Amendment 9. Vote. Please support the return to correction of nine. Please vote. [[10:58:34]] For 225 We didn't make it, did we, colleagues? We didn't make it. There's a man here who can't make it. Colleagues, vote carefully and be in your seats. I'm once again proposing to go back to number nine. Please vote, please support. Please vote and ask everyone to participate carefully in the vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[10:59:06]] For 230 230. We're back. Now I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment 9 to take it into account in the text of the law, and only then will I lay down the law. Who wants the 9th amendment to be edited by the committee in law, please vote, please support. And after that, it's the law. Please be supportive. 9th Amendment, please vote in the Committee's editorial. Please support the committee. [[10:59:39]] For 218. Colleagues, I don't get it. [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions. So, colleagues, by 9. We can't say this forever. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, the whole faction wasn't directed. They didn't realize the whole faction wasn't oriented. Colleagues, I'll put it again, if there are no votes, then there are no votes. So once again, I'm betting on confirmation of number nine, which triggered the basic discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, last vote. If there are no votes, we return to the committee. Yes. So once again, who's in favour of going back to number nine, who's in favour of going back to number nine again, please vote. Please vote, please vote. Colleagues, please take part in the vote and take the job. Who's in favour of going back to Amendment 9, please vote. Please vote. [[11:01:57]] For a hundred and There are no votes, colleagues. And I now propose to return to the committee for further work, as promised. So, colleagues, we're back to the law, we have it in cut, we don't have to go back to it. I put forward a proposal, which is the following under the Rules: to refer to the Committee for a second reading. I'm asking you to mobilize the entire hall and I'm asking you to support me, colleagues, so that we don't lose the bill. I ask everyone to unify as much as possible and to support the proposal that the draft Law 6466 be sent to the committee for a second reading. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please. Please vote. [[11:02:49]] For 235 235-yes. Decision taken. We've returned to the committee for a second reading. I am very sorry that we have not been able to make an important signal for local authorities today. Now we have the next draft of the Law on the Service of Diplomacy (number 7322). And I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it with a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[11:03:29]] For a hundred and 150-yes. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Andrew Ivanovich Zajac. Is there a room? Yes. Please, Andrew Ivanovich, go to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u58	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. I have the honour to present the urgent bill (No. 7322) submitted by the President of Ukraine on diplomatic service. The need for a new law has long matured because it will solve the problem of legal regulation of diplomatic service, taking into account new challenges and threats. The reform of the service has become urgent in the context of new foreign political realities, both related to Russian aggression against Ukraine and to the implementation of a clear foreign policy course on integration into the European Union and NATO. Today, diplomatic service is at the forefront of the struggle for Ukrainian independence, territorial integrity, and sovereignty. Modern challenges call for a new diplomatic service of quality, provided by highly professional staff and a flexible management system. The first step on this path was your adoption just two years ago of the Ukrainian State Service Act. The infection must go on: to modernize the activities of diplomatic service as a public service of a special nature. The bill establishes high professional requirements for Ukrainian diplomats, a transparent and clearly regulated procedure for selecting new qualified personnel, a more flexible system of encouragement and discipline, and the creation of necessary safeguards. The bill is designed to take account of the best foreign experience with its adaptation to Ukrainian conditions. Bill 7322, introduced by the President of Ukraine, is practically in full consonance with the text developed in the Supreme Council walls by the working group of the committee of profile led by the undisputed authority of the world of diplomacy, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. I would like to thank him, the head of the committee, all the members of the working group who participated in the work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u59	Would you like to add? Please add one more minute. I ask you to listen carefully, an important bill is being considered. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u60	The consideration of the bill at the meeting of the profile committee on December 5 demonstrated its support. At the same time, participants made proposals to improve their individual positions. I am sure that when preparing for the second reading, these suggestions will be carefully analyzed and considered. Please support the proposal of the President of Ukraine and the Committee and adopt the draft law as a whole by entrusting the Committee in foreign matters to work with regard to the comments and suggestions of the subject-matter of the legislative initiative. A positive consideration of this bill, the 100th anniversary of Ukrainian diplomacy, which we celebrate on December 22, will be extremely important for the entire Ukrainian state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u61	Thank you, colleague. Now the word for the report is given to the head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Hanni Hopko. Let's have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u62	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered this important bill on diplomatic service submitted by the President and supported the appropriateness of adopting such a law by Ukraine and, taking into account the comments made, in particular, the need to strengthen the obligation to consult a recommendational nature with the Professional Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to which the question of diplomatic service has been referred, on the candidates for leadership positions in Ukrainian diplomatic institutions abroad, approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on diplomatic service on a basis. So I would like to support you in your first reading. The 100th anniversary of the creation of the Ukrainian diplomatic service, which we will celebrate on December 22, we are considering this important bill to ensure that our service meets world standards. It is vital that we harmonize with the State Service Law in order to arm Ukraine with modern instruments of foreign policy. But I would very much like to say that we have increased funding for our diplomats, we have provided them with opportunities to better and more effectively defend national interests. It is also very important for us that those appointments of ambassadors that are being delayed, particularly in Kazakhstan, Switzerland, Denmark, where a conference on reform will be held next year, are finally appointed. In order to ensure that the first deputy in the ICC who is not in a situation of aggression is also an irresponsible attitude. And most importantly, foreign policy is a continuation of internal politics. And the very important command work of the President, the Parliament, the government, and it's very important that we try to discredit anti-corruption institutions that threaten our international support, that we saw yesterday, and we've seen the harsh statements of our partners, and we've been one step ahead of the gap, and it's very important to realize that, in terms of aggression, without international support, it's going to be difficult for us to take responsibility for those gains and protect them, not expose ourselves to new criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u63	Thank you. Colleagues, right now I'm asking you to sign up for this important bill. Please, Svetlana Zalczyk, please. Are you going to be from the rostrum or from the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u64	I can get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u65	Okay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u66	Dear colleagues! Indeed, we have worked with the Committee for over a year in foreign affairs on the new Law on Diplomatic Service, led by Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, for which he has great gratitude, along with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, along with the Ministry of Finance, along with the State Service, along with the Ministry of Social Policy and other services. It was an exemplary work and a very good document that we have worked on, which will allow us to reform eventually the diplomatic service, to bring very many norms into line with those new laws that this Council has voted in recent years, to modernize the workings of our diplomats, to solve many of their problems that do not allow them to fight on the diplomatic front against Russian aggression, including. At the same time, I would like to point out that the committee, by working on this bill, has introduced one important norm that would have provided for a prior consultation at the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which is really out of the logic of the parliamentary-presidential republic. Prior to the appointment of ambassadors in various parts of the world, these consultations should be held at the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This will allow greater accountability, transparency, the ability of deputies to influence the quality of our diplomats. Likewise, I would like to point out that our Chief Scientific Authority, as well as the expert conclusion given to the National Deputies, is part of the observations that show that there are certain norms that conflict, including the Constitution of Ukraine. In particular, the President of Ukraine is given powers that go beyond his authority as defined by the Constitution of Ukraine. This applies to several articles, such as the fifth, where the President is allowed to determine the mandate and tasks of certain international missions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u67	I can't hear you. Fifteen seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u68	In this regard, I ask for your support in the first reading, but between the first and the second readings we need to work on the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u69	Thank you. Now, please, from the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u70	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Parliament is currently discussing an important Law on the Service of Diplomacy, but all these laws that are being passed are not actually being implemented. Because the reality of Ukraine’s subjectivity, with its ability to carry out its internal and external policies, is demonstrated, for example, by today’s night. At night, the IMF head Lagarde called President Prashenko, said they would not lend credit to the International Monetary Fund, and President Poshenko, and the leaders of the coalition factions had already given up the idea of establishing parliamentary control over law enforcement. I have a question: if the heads of state, the president, the government, are being run from the outside, why don't you guys go to the International Monetary Fund? The country must be ruled by people who can defend the national interests of Ukraine. If you are talking about the need for parliamentary control, set up this control. If you claim to protect national interests, protect them, not trade them in exchange for other loans or taxes. That's why I think today's foreign policy, run by the President, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is not aimed at protecting Ukraine's national interests. This policy demonstrates the impersonality, incompetence, inability of the current authorities to defend the interests of the Ukrainians. They are acting on instructions from either the International Monetary Fund or the Embassy, rather than acting on instructions from exclusively Ukrainian citizens. I would also like to say that there is no word in the law that is proposed on the mandate of the parliament that establishes, conducts and adopts the foundations of Ukraine's foreign policy. I'm going to remind the initiators of the diplomatic service bill that we're living on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u71	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u72	That we are living in the parliamentary-presidential republic, and neither the President nor the government have the right to remove Parliament from making important foreign policy decisions. Therefore, our team will not vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u73	The next speaker is Mrs. Scrum's national deputy. Says Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. Dear Boris Ivanovich, happy to hear your opinion from the law of profile.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u74	Boris Tarasyuk, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, we have a very important bill before us. This bill refers to an important function of the state, such as foreign policy. Each state has two fundamental policies: internal and external politics. In foreign policy, special emphasis is placed on foreign policy, which is carried out by diplomatic service. I want to say a few words about what happened to this bill. On the initiative of the Foreign Affairs Committee, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we came up with a draft law a year ago. By summer. This summer we finished our work. The working group, which I had the privilege of leading, finished the work and prepared a bill for introduction to the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, at the initiative of the foreign minister, the bill, according to the committee, had been passed on to the President's Administration for six months. And what happened to this bill, which was based on a working group? And with this bill, it has happened that the Presidential Administration is removing a very important role of parliamentary control from the text of the bill and removing an article that deals with consultations prior to the appointment of heads of diplomatic representation by the President of Ukraine. We took a firm stand in the committee against this amendment. In addition, the bill has eliminated the function of diplomatic service as a service to the Ukrainian people, and you can guess who should be served by diplomatic service at that time. In conclusion, I want to say that despite these shortcomings, the "Paternity" faction supports the adoption of this bill in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u75	Fifteen seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u76	With the need for very important rights and the return of parliamentary control functions to the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u77	Thank you. Colleagues joined the discussion of three factions: "Fatherland", Radical Party, "Solidarity BPP." Would you like to join in the discussion of the bill? I ask my colleagues to return to the session room, because there will be a vote in just a few minutes, please return to the session room. Colleagues, I only want to ask you one more question on behalf of the Presidium. Are we putting the vote on the ground now, but then putting the vote on the accelerated procedure for preparing for the second reading so that we can get to the 100th anniversary of Ukrainian diplomacy to adopt the bill as a whole, we put it? No objection to the profile committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u78	So, colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u79	It's based on a reduced procedure. No, not in general, not in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u80	So we can go to the vote? I'm asking the factions to ask the deputies to take up jobs so we don't have to put them back. And once again, I'm going to put it as a basis for a reduced procedure of consideration for second reading, so that we can get to the 100th anniversary of Ukrainian diplomacy, which will take place at the end of December. And so please. So the first vote is the basis. Please take your seats and vote. I put to the vote the draft Law on Diplomatic Service (7322) on the basis of the committee's conclusion. Please vote and please support. I'll back you up, colleagues. Vote. [[11:19:45]] For 230 Decision taken. Now, pay attention, colleagues. Attention! Short-term procedure for consideration of second reading. I ask everyone to participate equally carefully in the vote. And I'm voting on a proposal to shorten the deadline for proposals and amendments to the second reading of the draft Law on Diplomatic Service (7322). Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:20:22]] For 210 Colleagues — What Is the Purpose? I'm asking you to support everyone, colleagues. I don't think everyone's just getting their bearings. Colleagues, I'm asking you to back everyone up so that we can make a decision by December 22. It's going to be 100 years from. a new Ukrainian diplomatic service. If we do not vote on this decision, we will not be able to reach an important date for Ukrainian diplomacy to vote on it. I'm asking you to support everyone. And once again, I am putting to the vote the proposal to shorten the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments to the second reading of the draft Law on Diplomatic Service (7322). Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. I'm asking all patriots to support it. Please vote, vote. [[11:21:26]] For 199 I didn't understand the position between us. The law is adopted as a basis, and I ask the committee to prepare it more quickly for consideration in the second reading. Let's move on to the next draft of the law, and then we'll put the day session in order, I'll remind you. Next: Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act (for optimizing the number of employees of the Public Prosecutor's Office) (No. 7160). Please support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please, colleagues. [[11:22:14]] For-179 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alekseiev Sergio Olegovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u81	Good afternoon, good morning! The President-in-Office, Your Honor, has before you a bill to amend the Procuratorial Act (to optimize the number of employees of the Public Prosecutor's Office) (number 7160). The bill proposes to exclude from the first section of article 14 of the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act the position of reducing the number of prosecutors from 1 January 2008 to 10,000. At the same time, there are an existing number of co-workers of the prosecutor’s office of 15,000 persons. Such changes will allow the necessary number of prosecutors, investigators, public officials and other prosecutors to adjust the total number of employees within the legislative framework, depending on the amount and direction of their activities. About one million criminal acts are registered annually in Ukraine. And according to article 37 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, a procedural leader must be established under each of these criminal laws. The decline in the number of prosecutors to 10,000 will inevitably result in increased and unjustified pressure on them. To date, the workload on one trial manager reaches up to 600 cases a year. When restrictions were imposed on the number of prosecutors in 2015 to 10,000, it was not possible to predict that there would be a significant increase in the number of investigative bodies in 2017. In addition, the need to bring the average number of prosecutors per capita into line with European country figures was taken into account, not taking into account the real state of crime, the economic situation and other processes that are taking place in Ukraine. The number of prosecutors in Ukraine cannot be mechanically reduced, based solely on the comparison and ratio of the number of prosecutors per capita in Ukraine and the countries of Europe. For that reason, in Ukraine more powers and duties of criminal prosecution and beyond. And also in Ukraine, unlike European countries, there is a function of procedural leadership.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u82	Finish up. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! Please support the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u84	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the representative of the Professional Committee on Legal Protection of Mikola Palamarczuku. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u85	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act (for optimizing the number of employees of the Public Prosecutor's Office) number 7160. The project proposes to amend article 14 of the Ukrainian Procurator's Act, to exclude the rule of reducing the number of prosecutors to 10,000 from 2018, and to establish that the total number of employees of the Public Prosecutor's Office is no more than 15,000. This is due to the fact that, first, reducing the number of prosecutors to 10,000 will inevitably result in increased workload on other workers, which may significantly undermine the implementation of criminal conduct tasks. The other one. The creation of new investigative bodies that have already been formed into the State Criminal Enforcement Service of Ukraine, the launch of the State Bureau of Investigation, and the abandonment of the prosecutor's offices to investigate cases that have been investigated by the NAB and registered before December. In the year, the Public Prosecutor's Office requires additional personnel resources to ensure that the law is properly enforced in the course of a pretrial investigation. The committee therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill on the basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u86	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for this bill. Please. Please, Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u87	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, Yuri Miroshnichenko, the Opposition Block. I would simply like to explain to all in the audience and our citizens what this law is about. The point is that today the total number of prosecutors is in the order of 15,000. But in our law, which we've already approved, we've determined that there should be no more than 10,000 prosecutors. What did the prosecution turn to us for? They propose to allow the Attorney General to determine for himself how many prosecutors there will be, how many investigators there will be, how many other employees. In large numbers, neither the budget load nor, say, the budget. This will usually affect the quality of the work, since they believe that if the staff structure is better formed, then the prosecutor’s office will carry out its own laws and the Constitution of duties. I think it makes sense and, well, for the sake of argument, of course, the deputies, but I would support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u88	Please, from Self-Help, the Semenich People's Deputy. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u89	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Unit. Now I want to go first to my fellow national deputies who worked on the Constitutional Commission and worked on constitutional changes in the justice bloc. Dear colleagues, when we were working on the changes to the prosecution's office when we were preparing the Coalition Agreement, we were talking about changing the philosophy of the law enforcement system; we were talking about reducing the functions of the prosecutor's office; we were talking about that the prosecutor's office should stop doing the wrong thing; we were talking about that the prosecutor's office should only be doing two things: presenting the indictment. Support for the state's charges in court and procedural management. But the attempts that we see in the procedural codes where the prosecution is supposed to represent an unknown person in unknown cases, other things say that there is a risk that the progressive changes that have already been adopted in these walls of parliament will be reversed. The explanatory note said that this would not affect the budget. My friends, would you please tell 15,000 prosecutors or 10,000 prosecutors this affects the budget? Obviously, it does. Let's move in a series of ways, as we determined six months ago, we're going to reduce not only the number of prosecutors, but also their function, and we're going to build a legal system that will serve people's interests, not the interests of prosecutors. Please reject this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u90	Please, the next speaker is National Deputy Alexeyev of the People's Front. Please. I'm sorry, the People's Deputy of Anointed, I've spoken about it. I'm sorry, my dear colleague, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u91	Andrey Pomazanov, People's Front faction. The People's Front faction unanimously decided to uphold this law, because it really is completely technical. We must now not prevent the Attorney General's Office from increasing or reducing the number of prosecutors or technical staff within 15,000. Because today, if we don't pass this law, we can actually restrict the prosecutor's office, actually lead the process and actually carry out their professional activities. That's why the People's Front will support this bill. But I'd like to add something else. Today we passed important bills, and yesterday and today, we passed laws on violence against women, above. Regarding the prohibition of domestic violence. And today it stands in order for the 7277 daily bill to increase the responsibility for failure to pay alimony. I would ask the president to move this bill right now and to consider it right behind this bill, because today, there are women in the hall who are now left alone with the problem of a husband leaving his wife, his children and not paying alimony. And today they expect Parliament to make this balanced, right decision. There is now a table for the second reading, there are conclusions of the General Legal Authority, there are all the conclusions needed. Let's go through these miserable 199 rights today before the budget, and we'll be able to give the kids before Santa Claus, actually, to get what they deserve by law, and we'll give all the kids the right to develop equally so that they have money for toys and food, and that they can normally go to school, to the garden, so that the father who dumped them would be forced to pay for it, otherwise he'll be deprived of the good that exists in society. Thank you. Please lay down this law immediately thereafter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u92	Thank you. In order for us to raise a higher law, we also need 226 votes. So now we're moving in our order of the day. Colleagues, all desiring of the faction, have come forward with this bill that we are currently discussing, and this is Bill No. 7160, amending the Ukrainian Procurator's Act? All the factions have spoken? I ask you to return to the session room in a minute, there will be a vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room, and there will be a vote. I would like to remind you that this is only about the first reading of Bill 7160 on Amendments to the Pro-Procuratorial Act (on optimizing the number of employees of the Public Prosecutor's Office). As far as I can see, all the factions who are interested in the factions have expressed their position on this bill, and that is why we will now be determined by voting. Colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room, literally in a few minutes there will be a vote. During the discussion, the people’s deputy, Pomazanov, made a suggestion to change some of the order of the day when the bill was being considered. But that, too, takes the will of the hall and then just the hall has to be determined what we're still looking at, but we have a schedule of inclusion into the agenda then. Please take your seats, colleagues, we will now vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u93	Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. We have a difficult, stressful day today and I ask all national deputies to pay the utmost attention and concentration so that they do not have to be put on return. I'm asking all the factions to invite deputies to the hall right now. I'm asking you to come in and take your jobs, and I'm asking the Supreme Council Secretariat, and the factions' heads to report that we've completed our discussions and move on to the decision-making process. Let me remind you, after this bill, there'll be a block of inclusion in the agenda of the day session. So we can go to the vote? I'll wait another 30 seconds. My colleagues, I would like to point out that this law makes changes in numbers that don't change, but within numbers, it's an extremely important bill for the Attorney General's Office. And so I ask you to prepare now for the vote, to take up jobs, and in 30 seconds we will move on to the decision-making process. So I'm voting on a bill amending the Procuratorial Act (for optimizing the number of employees of the Public Prosecutor's Office) (No. 7160) to propose a committee as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. We vote carefully every vote, please vote, we vote, colleagues. Please back up, please, colleagues. [[11:38:22]] For 217 Colleagues, I'll bet on a return, who hasn't arrived, invite you to the hall. Please invite the deputies into the hall. And during the vote, and during the debate, I'm going to stress to the MPs a few times that they're going into the hall, taking up jobs. I just don't understand why we have to wait another two or three minutes. Heads of factions, please invite the deputies to the hall. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote for draft Law 7160. And I ask everyone to be careful about voting, every vote has meaning, not to walk in the hall, but to vote. I ask you to vote, support the return to 7,160. Please support, please vote, colleagues. We vote, carefully, every voice. Please support, vote, support, vote. [[11:39:57]] For 226 We're back, colleagues. And I'm voting 7,160 as a basis, in general. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Don't leave the hall. We have every voice. Please vote, colleagues, please support. Vote, please support, please vote. Please support, please vote, every vote. [[11:40:29]] For 229 229 — yes. Decision taken. Colleagues, as I said, will now be included in the agenda of the day session and the first question is the question of moratorium. Continue the moratorium on land sales. And I'm asking you, colleagues, right now, all these bills are now in order, including all the factions have had a chance to get to know him. Now we're just going to vote on each other's bills. No discussion, just a vote. And I'm going to sound them one at a time. The first is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some Ukrainian legislative acts to encourage the creation and operation of small farms and the concentration of powers in the field of land relations (7363). Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. [[11:41:47]] For 272 Decision taken. The following bills are 7350, 7350-1, -2, -3, -4, -5, -6, -7, the "Transitional Positions" of Ukraine's Land Code for the continuation of the ban on the alienation of agricultural land. I'm offering to include in the agenda today. Include in the agenda of the day session for consideration today. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, fellows! This is the question that we discussed on the Conciliation Council. [[11:42:36]] For 260 Decision taken. Next, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services (7342-1) to empower the President of Ukraine to ensure the continued activity of the National Commission (7342-1). And there is also a suggestion that we include it in the agenda of the day session for consideration today. As I was told, there is a critical situation on the National Commission, and it needs an immediate solution. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[11:43:25]] For 251 Decision taken. Next. [[Noise Nodes]] 7345 is the next bill, it's about Crimean Tatar television, 7345 is funding from the Crimean Tatar budget. I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for consideration today. Colleagues, yesterday we celebrated the 100th anniversary of Crimson Court, and I ask you to support 7345 inclusion in the agenda of the day session to be considered today. Please vote, please support. Please vote, please support. We'll support the Crimean Tatars. Please vote, vote. [[11:44:37]] For 241 Decision taken. And now, I'm sorry, I still have to clarify what other bills there are. Colleagues, pay attention! We're consulting. And that's exactly what you're asking, Mr. Sergei. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're doing a consultation on your issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u94	Please approach the Presidium.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u95	Colleagues, we have a request for another bill from the People's Front. Anointed, please. Anointed, please make your proposal to the microphone. No, no, tell me. Colleagues, I'd like to make another suggestion from two other factions so that we can have a common understanding. Attention! There is a position of the People's Front that we now vote for the alimony law. So we can move it. We're not looking now, we're just looking at 7277 for today. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the protection of the right of the child to due maintenance by improving the enforcement order (7277). And, colleagues, there's a request from the People's Front that we move it and look at it more quickly. The alimony question was supported in the first reading room as a whole. There is already a committee. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. Alimony for us to carry. [[11:49:03]] For 226 We've moved on. Next, attention, colleagues. To pass the law is a requirement of the Radical Party -- "Buy Ukrainian" -- for us to consider today. I'm asking you to get all our hands on it so we can take a look at it today. And I'm asking. I'm putting all the proposals of all the factions to the vote. Let's have a look at the Buy Ukrainian Act today. Please support this proposal, please vote. Please vote, please support us to review the Buy Ukrainian Act today. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Vote. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[11:49:54]] For 234 And the last proposal we have today, colleagues, is a proposal from the Rules Committee. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of Sobolev Yegor as head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on preventing and combating corruption. Under the law and under the Rules, from the moment of this submission, I shall put it to the vote in the agenda and determine when we shall vote. The committee suggests that it be placed in the agenda and considered today. And I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda and voting today of the Supreme Council's decree, as soon as I've read it. Please vote, please vote, colleagues. [[11:50:53]] For 225 Guys, I'll put it back on. I'll do it again. Who's in charge of the agenda for the session to be considered today, please vote and please. Careful! [[B in m in s a l in]] 7368. Please vote. Vote, fellows! Please vote. [[11:51:27]] For 241 Decision taken. So, colleagues, we passed the "inclusion in the agenda" block. The demands of all factions were sounded, and the demands of all factions were put to the vote. We are today, colleagues, I remind you of our general logic of work, our general logic of work. I'm asking you to come to the head of the BP faction right now. Right now, according to the agenda, we should go to the budget code, but we have too little time to take a break. Colleagues, listen carefully to my offer. We won't be able to consider any drafts in seven minutes. I have a suggestion that we start the break quickly and quickly finish the same half hour. Is it accepted? 11:50-12:20 is the same half hour, we do not violate the Rules. Well, 53. We do not violate the Rules, but at that time we will be able to clarify both the Tax Code and the Budget Code and hold consultations at that time. It's accepted by everyone, isn't it? So 11:55. I'm calling it a half hour break, half an hour till 12:25. And at 12:25, I ask everyone to return to the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and continue our work. So, colleagues, I want to explain carefully to everyone right now the logic of what we're doing. We've included a series of questions in the agenda. I would like to remind you that, according to the Rules, questions that are included in the agenda before lunch can only be considered after lunch, is a direct rule of the Rules. And so this is the question of energy conservation, and it's going to be after lunch in the fourth through the fifth. The question of a moratorium on land will be after lunch from the fourth to the fifth. All the questions that we have included will be from the fourth to the fifth. Then there'll be a budget. Then there'll be the budget after them. Colleagues, ask Dombrovski, which concerns the NCREKP, this is a matter of great importance that we cannot but resolve today. Right now, according to the agenda, we have a change to the Budget Code. There's about 200 right-handers. On my count, it'll be right up to the second hour. So we'll pass the Budget Code by 2 p.m., then. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, it's hand-to-hand. You asked me. After that I will propose, colleagues, after that I will propose that we vote for the continuation of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the adoption of budgetary issues. We realize that we may not be able to make it by six o'clock, it may be seven o'clock, and eight o'clock, but there must be a separate decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that you'll take before lunch. So after the discussion of the Budget Code, I'm going to invite my colleagues to vote and support the proposal that we work at the evening session before the end of the budget discussion. Do you understand that logic? I'm asking the next woman to report now, come into the hall and prepare for the consideration of matters. I'd like a representative of the Budget Committee to prepare. I'm asking the representatives of the budget committee to come into the hall and ask the fellow MPs to come into the hall. The time taken for a break is already exhausted. Colleagues, we're waiting for the national MPs to arrive. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Colleagues, I'd like to ask: Is the table being distributed in the budget code room? Is there a plate on the factions? Please come into the hall, get ready for work. I would like to point out that the budget code has a total of 335 amendments, of which about 200 are not rejected. And I'm counting on us to be able to look at it in an hour and a half. And that's why I'm asking the right-holders to prepare themselves for the draft. And now we're going to consider the next issue of agenda: this is question 7116: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (second reading). And I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on Ischeikin Constantine's budget. Mr. Constantine, please. Right-wing authors please prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u97	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Budget Issues prepared draft Bill 7116 for consideration in the second reading: on amending the Budget Code, addressing 337 proposals made by national deputies, of which 168 are included. Considering that the proposed changes to the Budget Code are directly related to the draft State Budget Act 2018, their position should be harmonized. According to the second reading of Bill 7116, the most controversial issues have been addressed. First, the excluded provision for the transfer to local budgets of housing-communal benefits and their re-enactment from the state budget at the expense of the corresponding subsidy. Secondly, there is no change in the size of the local budget to the state budget, and the reverse grant is calculated in the completed state budget project on a valid basis, using 50 percent, not 80 percent of the removal. Thirdly, the issue of spending on the work of teachers of higher education institutions is regulated at the level of accreditation in the area of general secondary education, as well as the possibility of additional subsidies for the other activities of such institutions. Fourthly, there is a framework for the implementation of a health insurance programme. Its first phase is that primary health care should start on July 1, 2018. In addition, the proposal for government bills is taken into account: 4773, 6604, 6668, 6670, 7288, 7345, which are designed to harmonize legislation. As a result of the review, the committee adopted the following decision: recommending Bill 7116 to the Supreme Council on second reading and generally as a law taking into account supported proposals in the final edition, as set out in the committee's comparative table to the bill. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u98	I'm asking the right-wing authors to get ready to work in the hall. I'm just going to call those redundancies that are rejected, colleagues. And I'm asking you, when someone needs to be put on confirmation, by raising their hand. 5th. Don't insist. 7th, Odarchenko. Don't insist. 11th, Nedda. Don't insist. 12th, Matthew. Don't insist. 14th, Leuchenko. He insists. Turn on Lechchenk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u99	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I, along with other members of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association, have submitted dozens of amendments to this bill, but we are not going to participate in this illegal anti-constitutional campaign. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andri Parubai, you are now in violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, which clearly states that a bill prepared for second reading should be distributed 10 days before its consideration, right? The table's just been handed out! You yourself said on live that a table was given to everyone. Five minutes ago! And the electronics just appeared on the site! You're depriving people's MPs -- the normal ones who are really interested in the legislative process -- of working on the relevant documents. You're violating the Rules, you're violating the Constitution of Ukraine, and you're depriving the MP of the law of the legislative initiative. And we are not going to participate in this illegal propaganda! I won't insist on any of my corrections.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u100	Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Thank you. I ask you to continue working on Irina Heratchenko's amendments, and I ask you to pay attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u101	We're working on it. They don't insist on correction. Next up is 18th, Singer. Don't insist. If I don't name someone, colleagues, raise your hand, okay? Gorbunov, I understand, does not insist on amendments. Kulichenko, 24th. Don't insist. You're arguing, 25th. Don't insist. Pressman, 26th. Don't insist. It's a white churchman. Don't insist. Sold. Don't insist. The miller. Don't insist. Tree tree. Don't insist. Easy. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Excuse me, yes, yours has not been here yet. 32nd, Ishtajkin. Don't insist. To confirm 33th, the amendment is now being made. 33rd, she's, look, she's rejected, 33rd turned down. 33rd is the amendment of Zhivago and it's rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] 33 Amendment rejected, this is the amendment of Zhivago. Look, come to me, I'll show you. Let's move on. 36th, Krivenka. Don't insist. 39th, Nemirowski. Don't insist. 40th, Baby. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll ask the representatives of the Supreme Council's bed, the Secretariat's bed. I'm asking you to come to me. Wait a minute, we're having a little meeting. Please come with the table. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, we had a small production meeting with the amendment authors. They will now find out where they are. I emphasize and remind you that we are with you at 42 Odarchenk Amendments. Don't insist. He insists. Please, Odarchenko, 42 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u102	Mrs. Irina, thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. I would also like to point out that, at present, the governor has given us rights that cannot be considered carefully in a few minutes before the budget is considered unlawfully in violation of the Rules Act. Today, our Fatherland regulations are designed to ensure that the budget is evenly distributed among all the rural councils, not just those that unite on a forward-looking basis. We insist that all of this is now being done in haste so that the MPs can't figure it out, the budget law was formed only because additional taxes on people were increased, there were increased beatings on people, and so the government had the ability to "stick" this budget. Madam Chairman, I would like to stress once again that you are in violation of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleague, I disagree with you. There's been a call, I'll let myself have a line. First of all, it's not the ruling majority, it's the secretariat of the Supreme Council. Second, the amendments are handed out after the committee has examined them and printed the corresponding table. Thirdly, today they stand, this law, we have the order of the day. And the hall, including your faction, gave 226 votes to raise it above the agenda. So I'd ask you to take your words with regard to the presiding officer back, I'm not violating anything, but I'm following the Rules. And now we're looking at, not the budget amendment, but the amendment to the alimony bill. Please give Mr. Odarchenk this heavy table so he has two tables and he's happy to go. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, you do. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. My colleagues, you'll excuse me, for God's sake. Yes, it's the Budget Code. It's the Budget Code. I came to see the bill later. And, sorry, I'm going now. You tricked me. We vote in favour of Amendment 42. I apologize and offer my sincere apologies to Sir Odarchenk for asking the wrong question. We vote on your amendment 42. Excuse me, please. We put up a bill of alimony above, and I thought we were going after it. Excuse me, excuse me. We're voting 42 amendments, please. (Full circulation of what bill?) My colleagues, please, have a copy of the Budget Code in the hall right now. I'm asking you to take it. [[12:44:46]] For-64 64 votes. They didn't support Odarchenk's amendment. Please take a new one. a new table for the Budget Code, which is now published after the committee's consideration, so that we can move. Thank you very much. That's why I went through this mess. And I'm sorry, we're moving on. Colleague Nedda and colleague Krulko are now required to place on confirmation the amendment number 34 of Dennisov. I beg to give the word to Nedava, he first raised his hand. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. This is an amendment that we're taking a step back from decentralization. Today we're trying to take this amendment from the environmental fund of the local government's district budgets to the state budget. So I'm asking you not to support this amendment, because it's a step back from decentralization. We're putting this environmental fund into the state budget from places, from the area, from our regions, from Donetsk, Lugansk, Dnipropetrovsk, Zaporin regions. Please, this amendment does not need to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u105	Colleagues, the committee has supported this amendment, Mrs. Dennis. And now I'm going to give the floor to Mrs. Dennis to her. 34 revisions, colleagues. Denisenka, Denisenka repair. Denisenka's repair. The committee supported her. I ask you to vote in favour, please vote in favour of this amendment. [[12:46:42]] For-81 Correction not supported. Let's move on. 39th, Nemirowski. Don't insist. 40th, Baby. Don't insist, I see. Next. We've already passed the gift shop. 43rd, Ostapchuk. Don't insist. Denisenko, 45th. Don't insist. Ostapchuk, 48th. Don't insist. Denisenko, 49th. Don't insist. Semenha, 50th. Please, Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u106	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. I want to support my colleague, Odarchenka, because in this way this bill is not acceptable. Even the numbering doesn't match the table I was given, with what you call it. As far as the content of the amendment is concerned. Unfortunately, this budgetary process is accompanied by a total central government attack on the budgets of the communities. My amendment is to prevent the government from transferring to the local budgets of a separate article that does not have their own expenses, without in any way increasing the sources of revenue, without increasing the tax base of the local budgets. One of the proposals on the distribution of income tax for natural persons to the city’s budget is to increase from 60 percent to 70 percent. Also, change the principle of legally binding the size of the accounts that come from local budgets for licensing for economic activity. Money has to be given to the community. Let's keep this up, don't be afraid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u107	Thank you. Your Honor, we are now putting 50 amendments, on your request, to the vote. The only thing I want to point out is that only those amendments were distributed, a new circulation was printed, after consideration of the committee where the coincidence is complete. I ask you to take a new table and work on it. That's why we had, in fact, this discussion at the beginning. Let's vote for the 50th amendment. Then we go to yours, I see. [[12:48:58]] For-96 Not supported. Next 55th. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u108	I beg you, Mrs. Irina, to be amended to confirm the 35th amendment, because it's the same as 34th, she is. With this amendment, we finance, at the expense of environmental costs, other costs of the state budget, the environmental costs that are in place today. And local authorities already know and have offered a lot of projects, environmental projects that will be implemented in environmentally charged areas. So I ask everyone not to support this amendment, the environmental costs should stay where they were.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u109	We're voting for the 35th amendment. The committee supported her. Please be supportive. It's a requirement recently to ask for confirmation. Please. [[12:50:09]] For-55 55 votes. It doesn't take up the necessary amount. Next 60 revisions, Fatherland factions. Who will present? Mrs. Kugel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u110	The Fatherland faction, Alexander Kugel. First, I want to address the people of Ukraine and the politicians. You remember when you started decentralization, you promised that money would be passed on to newly created communities, except for the transfer of powers. Here we received a letter from the newly created community. A community that has no mines or careers takes 8 million dollars. And next door, a village that doesn't have, and it doesn't work, and it doesn't want to work, they're given 8 million dollars. We propose to give up the horizontal alignment for the united territorial communities that were created according to a forward-looking plan and to include them in Transitions for at least 3 years without touching them to become rich and to start working. Secondly, in amendment 60 we demand that 80 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u111	I see. Please vote. We're voting to make it all day today. We're voting for the 60th Amendment of the Fatherland faction. Please. [[12:51:47]] For-86 86 votes. Not supported. Next 67, Wooden. Don't insist. Then Ned, '70s. Don't insist. Semenha, 71st. Please, Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u112	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. The amendment also refers to the strengthening of support for local self - government bodies and united territorial communities. The bill proposes that Kabmin calculate, by some formula, an unfixed portion of the payment for the issuance of licences and the introduction of commercial activities from the release and production of lotteries. So it's suggested that Kabmin's towel determine how these incomes are going to be distributed. My right is to specify, right at the legislative level, to take away the Cabinet's manual -- the size of the calculations that will come into the budgets of cities of district importance, rural, rural budgets from lottery releases. And to secure it at 70 percent, the money has to stay in the community. I ask the government to keep the promises you made when we chose you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u113	Vote for amendment 71, Semimenach. [[12:53:03]] For-94 94 votes. Not supported. Next, 72nd, Fatherland. Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u114	72nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u115	72nd, I said, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u116	Thank you. As I go on with what my colleague Semenach said, I would like to emphasize to you again that local self-government involves not only the transfer of authority, but, above all, the provision of money for these powers. And that's why we support 70 offering Self-Help, Fatherhood offering 80 percent of the lottery license to leave it there. Excuse me, you're robbing people, you're putting your points there, you're selling your lotteries, and you're not leaving for the development of the area where you're making money. Please comply with your obligations to decentralize local self - government. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u117	We're voting for the 72th amendment. It's the whole "Fatherland" faction that gave it to her. Please. [[12:54:21]] For-75 75 votes. He's not. 83rd, Odarchenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, well, the role of Parliament in the distribution of budgetary resources and in controlling the use of budgetary resources has been essentially reversed. Today, what they say about Parliament not affecting anything is true truth. And with these changes to the Budget Code, you're proving it all. You're saying that any change in the budget, if the budget is not accepted by the local councils, has to run the Cabinet of Ministers. Dear friends, that's not right. So we suggest that, in order to preserve some local self-government, to retain the authority of local communities, Amendment 14 should be deleted, more faithfully, paragraph 14 should be deleted from the Budget Code altogether. Please do not ignore the authority of local self - government.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u119	We're voting for 83 amendments. Please. 83 revisions. [[12:55:51]] Z-77 No votes, 77. People's MP Spivakovsky. Are you insisting on 89th? Thank you. Let's move on. Semenha, 95th. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u120	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. The amendment refers to the allocation of subsidies between higher education institutions. In Ukraine, the total educational subsidy is now 62 billion dollars. The amount of the budget is going to split into higher education between higher education institutions according to a formula whose parameters will be taken into account by the Ministry of Education in the formulation of this formula, and they need to be clarified today. The bill now proposes a parameter that defines the educational and scientific performance of a higher education institution, but this does not correspond to the provisions of article 16 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. My edit just provides more valid indicators for determining the quality of an educational institution by using the formula. To assess the quality of higher education institutions, the National Agency for Quality assurance from higher education or accredited institutions has to do so. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u121	95 votes in favour. Please. [[12:57:15.]] Z-87 It doesn't take up the necessary amount. 90 lashes, Fish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u122	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland faction, Donetsk. Please support my amendment, which amends the Budget Code, allowing the problem of displaced higher education institutions and technologies where there is not enough money in the local government right now. I have a very large number of higher education institutions from Crimea, Donetsk and Lugansk, for example, the Donetsk National Academy of Construction and Architecture, which moved from Makyivka occupied by Kramatorsk. They have everything, they have a complete agreement and interaction with the building school, but the Budget Code does not allow them to unite into a single structural unit in order to attract grants and train students in such a complex situation. I don't understand why the budget committee didn't support a completely technical exercise that would allow not only the transferred higher education institutions to be saved, our students to be taken away and our dates, to be loaded, to be employed by our universities and technicians. So please support Ukrainian education and vocational education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u123	90 revisions. Vote. [[12:58:37]] For-98 It's not coming through. 99th. Odarchenko. Don't insist. 101st. Semenha. 99th. Odarchenko. Please, the microphone insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues! At present, local budgets account for a very large amount of expenditure that was previously on the state budget. And today, with the changes to the Budget Code, you want, and now, I think, in order for the ruling majority to vote that even part of the cost of primary medicine, it was put to local self-government. You're suggesting that we put expenses on it to pay for utilities and energy carriers. Today, local budgets do not stand the cost you put on them. Our amendment is that primary medicine should be fully funded by the state budget. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take this matter seriously and vote on the amendment that we have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u125	Please, the 99th Amendment. Vote. [[13:00:07]] For-97 You haven't been corrected. 97 votes. Next, please, the Fatherland faction, 102 amendment. Now, I've already announced, then I'll be back, I'm sorry. 102 revisions. Yvchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u126	Vadim Yvchenko faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, look, there's a budget for primary medicine today. So I have a question to the budget committee and to you, Mr. Reporter, how did you divide, after six months, you're only giving five billion into primary organs of local self-government, actually reducing twice the norm, and after six months, you're giving 8 billion to an agency that you created and will be your own representative, you're giving 8 billion? Is it fair or is it a market? How do you look at the mayors, the city heads that you're going to tell today that you know that you have to pay from your budget, and we're going to double that rule to you, and from the new year, we're going to increase the standards and we're going to pay back to the agency that's going to give these money after the acts that have been done? Look, it's not fair, it's a market, we're forming a state with you. Comment on how you divided this medical subsidy into primary medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u127	I'm voting on Amendment 102. Constantine, do you want to comment? Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u128	Thank you. My dear colleague, first of all, I would like to say less when we're considering the budgetary process, to look into the eyes and the populism, because personally I'm not ashamed to do it, like a deputy major, I'm doing the best I can for the county. In the situation you're talking about. In medicine, there should be a lobbyist in the form of a Ministry of Health. And on a proposal that indicated that since the beginning of 2018 it is not ready to start an appropriate agency, and by the way, I don't own data like you, who will lead it, if you have this data, you can announce it. And he asked for the appropriate funds that were allocated to the agency in full, which is more than 12 million to count from July 1st. Accordingly, a certain number has been reduced because six months goes by subsidy, and from July 1st it will start.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u129	Please, 10 seconds. Oh, I see. Colleagues, I want to speak to both the committee representative and all right-wing MPs, we have a tense day today, but at the same time in the afternoon there are proposals from all factions. So I'm asking the right-wing authors to use only those changes that are incredibly principled. And I'm asking the committee representative to comment as precisely as possible, because we just can't keep up with the plan that we've built today. It's very simple, and it's my request to all of you. Do you insist on voting, Mr. Vadim? Are you insisting on the vote? Don't insist. Don't insist. 100 axles, Tooth, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u130	The Supreme Council recently. Medical reform has already been adopted this fall, and one of the fundamental principles of this reform was that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the person of an authorized body -- a specially created agency -- assumes responsibility for funding primary medicine. So it's not going to be financed through a subsidy anymore, it's going to be done directly. So the question raised in this direction is: why, if the state assumes responsibility, why does it remove this responsibility in the amendments to the Budget Code in part of the payment of housing services and energy services? I realize that central authority, with some experience already, feels incompetence and incompetence, but it's already going beyond everything. Let's go, let's go! So I suggest you support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u131	Thank you. I'm putting a hundred people's deputies to the vote. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. The committee turned her down. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:04:55]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Next, 106. Don't insist. 105th. 105th, Yvchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u132	That's how I got it. Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. So I understand from your answer that as a budget committee you supported the MOH's proposal to reduce funding for primary medicine through local self-government in the first six months. And in fact, you haven't been able to lobby and raise standards for city heads on the level that will be in place since July 1, 2017, which will go through the agency. That's it. Well, it's on your conscience. The other one. The "Fatherland" faction that once insisted: for three years now, the city's district value has been in a situation where they don't get the right taxes, they don't have any income tax on individuals in the territory. I ask again, you are voting for the Decentralization Act, but you are destroying decentralization by the Budget Code itself. Return taxes on the income of individuals in the amount of the united territorial communities to the cities of district importance — almost 200 cities, more than 200 cities in the district.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u133	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? That's what you insist on. I'll bet you 105 votes. Anyone who supports it, please vote. The committee turned it down. Let's vote. [[13:06:35]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Next, 107th. Don't insist. 108th. Don't insist. 110th. Don't insist. 113th. Don't insist. 118th. 118th. He insists. 118th, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u134	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to support my colleagues and say that you've delegated authority, but you haven't funded the local self-government, particularly with respect to the salaries of administrative and technical staff of educational and medical institutions, particularly in the area of housing and utilities. And you raised them to the right size, and today you're also handing them that shipping debt. I ask you once again to give them the opportunity to have the ability to do it – the financials. And to my great conviction, we must today openly save the cities of district importance. And once again, this was the call of city heads of district importance and city councils, give them back their income tax. And once again, please show your position in the medical field, let's give the local self-governance authorities for this six months the funds, in accordance with the standard they're going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u135	Do you insist on voting? Yes. I'm voting on Amendment 118. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. Please. [[13:08:17]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. 120th. Don't insist. He insists. 120th, please, Semenha. What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u136	119th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u137	119th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u138	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues, today in the health system, there is a catastrophic underfunding of subsidies allocated to the medical sector — about seven billion dollars today. In his presentation to the budget, the government promised to increase the medical subsidy by 5.9 billion dollars. And so far it's not clear, because in Appendix 6 of the amended state budget bill, there's this number. At the same time, paragraph 19 of the comparative table contains information that the Supreme Council’s proposal is not taken into account. I would ask, not in words, to love medicine, but in money, and I would ask the reporter to comment. My right is to clarify, namely, that the cost of public services and energy supplies by public health institutions providing primary health care is spent exclusively at the expense of the State Budget and, the defense of God, not in the pockets of local budgets. Please comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u139	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u140	I would like to point out immediately that the representatives of the budget committee that worked both on the subcommittee and on the committee from the first reading were for the state to compensate the energy supply to hospitals. And accordingly, it gave a mandate to the MoH, which supports this initiative, in order for them to work out the formulation with the Ministry of Finance. But the formulation of how to approach the question and work with the public with the private.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u141	Let me finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u142	It's supposed to be done at the level of communication with Mozza and Minfin. The committee would support this story if it were prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u143	Thank you. I bet on the vote of Amendment 119. Anyone who supports it, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[13:10:41]] For-72 The decision is not made. Next amendment. 133. Don't insist. 134. Don't insist. 136. Don't insist. 141. Don't insist. 145. Don't insist. 149. Don't insist. Here's a lot of strings that are included in this section. 175th. What's that? Please, Ivan Krulko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u144	VanKulko, the Fatherland faction. I'd like that. Of course, there are a lot of things in this code that "Paternity" can't really support. But what I'd like to say is that at last -- and for that, by the way, we have to point out the head of the subcommittee -- we were able to support the youth centers. And for the first time, youth centers all over the country, where young people should work, where young people should gather, where there is real decentralization in youth work, are supported in the budget code. And local self - government authorities have been given the right to support the activities of such youth centers from their own resources. I think it's a step towards us starting to form responsible pro-Ukrainian and very strong youth policies. So thank you for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u145	Thank you very much. 192nd. Don't insist. 193. Don't insist. 196. Don't insist. 197th. Don't insist. Much further, the whole block of rights that were counted by the committee. 213. Don't insist. 211th, Dentist. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u146	Once again, dear colleagues, we are talking about local self - government and decentralization. With my permission, I propose that the state in the budget allocate a subsidy to compensate for the passage of the benefits categories of citizens. Every year, local budgets are costing billions of dollars, although from the point of view of the Constitution of Ukraine, this should be financed by the State. Since social protection, the granting of benefits is a function of the state, it is stipulated that by providing certain benefits, they should be attached to certain money. Instead, once again, the state translates this into local self-government, and it costs a billion dollars. Therefore, with my permission, I propose that justice be restored and that appropriate subsidies be provided in the State budget to compensate for these costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u147	You insist on voting, don't you? 211 amendment, I'll put it to the vote. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[13:13:45]] For-68 The decision is not made. Next up is 214. Don't insist. 218th. Don't insist. 217th, right? 217th Semenha. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u148	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. My claim is also about the inadmissibility of financial decentralization. To date, the underfunding of the educational subsidy is already about four and a half billion dollars. Dnipro already needs 59 million dollars, Lviv 118 million. According to Kharkiv, this will cost an additional 750 million dollars from the local budget. And that's despite the fact that the second year in a row, the vocational and technical education sector is actually being abandoned on a permissive basis, to maintain local budgets that can't be drawn. My bill provides for the financing of public subsidies for all employees of education and not just for teachers. It's about what's going to be financed by the state budget and the labs and the librarians and the technical staff and so on. Love education really. Do not translate into local budgets. They can't handle it. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u149	Do you insist on voting? Yes, I'm putting to the vote Amendment 217 of the People's Deputies of Semimenah. Anyone who supports it, please vote. The committee turned it down. Let's vote, colleagues. And I ask once again, colleagues, not to insist on every correction, for otherwise we will break the order of the day. [[13:15:13]] For-88 The decision is not taken. 219. Don't insist. 221. Don't insist. 224. Don't insist. 227. Don't insist. 233. Don't insist. 240. Don't insist. 243. 245, turn on the microphone. Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u150	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. My bill provides for a change in the order in which an additional grant is to be allocated to the state budget for expenditure on education and health care. The selected grant is for district budgets only, which is not acceptable. Further allocation of the additional grant will be made between the local budgets in a manner determined by the district governments and approved by the decisions of the district council. This arrangement puts the united territorial communities in a high degree of dependence on district authority, which is not normal. It is necessary to give authority to truly united territorial communities. Therefore, it is my right that the State Budget Act approves the scope of the additional grant separately for the district budgets, city budgets, and budgets of the united territorial communities. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u151	I ask you to stop these games in the Presidium, Andry Volodymyrovich, is the highest organ of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I urge you to stop rocking on the cricket. So I'm voting on Amendment 245. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:17:02]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Now 244th, Dentist. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u152	In keeping with the previous speaker's words, thank you Romanu Semenesi, I'd like to add. This article discusses an additional grant for the maintenance of educational and medical facilities. But I believe that the government’s proposed design of this article is or is not the most dangerous sign of the slippery centralization that is taking place in our country. Why? Once upon a time, the Supreme Council decided that local self-government bodies should have direct inter-budget relations in order not to depend on different types of intermediaries. The article states that this additional grant is transferred to the district budgets and that the district administrations will be responsible. What does that mean? This means that those who are obedient will give an additional grant and those who are disobedient will not give. This is the real decentralization policy that is taking place in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u153	Thank you. I'm voting on amendment 244. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:18:29]] For-75 The decision is not taken. 247. Don't insist. 252. Don't insist. 256. Don't insist. 270. Don't insist. 277. Don't insist. 287. Kulinich insists. 287th, Kulinich insists. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, this is a very principled amendment on which I insist and supported by a professional agrarian committee. It's very simple. It refers to a standard under which the entire "sub-law" on the allocation of state support to the APC should agree with the professional agrarian committee of the Supreme Council. This is a principled position supported by an agrarian committee at its meeting. The identity committee itself should play a coordinating role in determining the direction of state support for the APC. For the next year alone, we have 4 billion dollars, and we don't know their distribution mechanism, who gets those costs, which directions, which limits. Then we must be in agreement with the Supreme Council’s profile committee. I'm asking you to put this in for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u155	Thank you. I'm betting on confirmation. No, it's rejected. It's rejected. I'm betting on her to support her. I'm betting on a vote of 287, the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:20:13]] For-119 The decision is not made. 291. 293. 295. 301. People. What? 298th is, it's written, it's sold. 300-a,300-a is yours! Please, Roman Semenha 300 lashes. 301, Macola, get ready. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u156	Dear colleagues! Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. The amendment is also aimed at increasing the income portion of local budgets. In the following year, the government raises the price by 9 percent, which is that VAT on goods and services produced in Ukraine will only increase by 3.3 percent, which is less than the real level of inflation, or even less planned. The following year or Ukraine will produce fewer goods and services, or they will cost less. My bill proposes to increase the share of excise taxes from the customs-produced and imported territory of Ukraine to the local self-government budgets from 13.44 per cent to 17.66 per cent due to the undercompensation of local budgets in the current year. This right will at least partially compensate the local budgets for what they should have received fairly, but it has not been the result of the government's disastrous policies this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u157	Thank you. And I'm putting to the vote amendment 300, the People's Deputy of Semimenah. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Vote. During the vote, colleagues, I want you to know that there are 10 rights left, in minutes 7-8 we'll move on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to invite the deputies into the hall. [[13:21:58]] For-82 82. The decision is not made. 301. Macola. Turn on the microphone. 301 law. Macola.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u158	Good afternoon. Support is proposed to increase the share of excise tax deductions made and imported into the customs territory of Ukraine from 13.44 per cent to 17.66. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u159	Thank you. And I'm voting on Amendment 301. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. Colleagues, and we invite the deputies to the hall. I ask all the heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. [[13:22:46]] For-92 92. The decision is not made. Next up is 322. Macola. 322. Please turn on the microphone. Macola.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u160	It is still proposed that the debts that were made from 2009 to 2014 not on account of local budgets be written off at the expense of the state. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u161	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 322. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:23:31]] For-90 90. The decision is not made. I, my colleagues, forcefully ask everyone to come to the hall and a decision will be made in a few minutes. There are literally a few left. 324th. Don't insist. 330. Don't insist. 335. Don't insist. 226th. 326. Ribchin. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u162	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland faction, Donetsk. I propose in the section "The Final Position" to change the existing legislation, which provides that for temporarily displaced GNPs, the central executive authority in the field of education and science, sets a fixed amount and a government order for the training of higher education professionals. At the same time, today there are a number of displaced NCDs that are subordinated not to the Ministry of Education but to other ministries, such as the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Internal Affairs. So the Luhansk State Medical University, the Donetsk Law Institute of the Ministry of Culture, the Luhansk State University of Internal Affairs, the Luhansk State Academy of Culture and Arts, which is subordinated to the Ministry of Culture, can't get this demand. I propose to help displaced higher education institutions and technical remedies, which do not spend any money on the budget at all, to allow these universities to obtain a government order for all universities under the Ministry of Education and Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u163	Do you insist on voting? I'm voting on amendment 326, it's rejected by the committee. Anyone who supports this vote, please. [[13:25:18]] For-95 The decision is not made. 335th and 336th Amendment. Don't insist. So, colleagues, we're done discussing what gives us a chance to consider the next alimony bill before lunch, and that's why we can move on to a decision. I'm asking all of the people's deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs, and we're moving on to making a decision. I ask both members of the committee and the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of deputies for decision-making. Colleagues, this is a matter of the budgetary process, and I do not allow the deputies to be out of the workplace during that period, I do not allow it. And I just insist that all deputies return to their jobs. I'm just insisting. Every return is a shame to Parliament, it's disrespect for Parliament. I would like us to vote now rather than go back to the bill. So let's move on to making a decision. Everyone, please take your seats. Please take your jobs, come into the hall, I'm addressing the factions in particular, let the deputies know that the decision is being made through their faction secretariats. This is one of the most important bills that we can't accept without a budget. So I'm voting on the draft law. Okay, if you'll just wait another 30 seconds, I'll wait. You're ready, aren't you? So, colleagues, I inform you that as a result of the discussion, the committee representative said that the bill would be balanced if we didn't go back to 35. So I'm going to put the vote back on the bill, the confirmation of the bill, and only then the law as a whole. You got it, right? This is the position of the budget committee to be treated with respect so that the law is not balanced. And that's why I'm going to do what the committee representative said, but it takes everybody to be at work. So I'm the first to put forward a proposal that was made by a representative of the budget committee so that the bill is not balanced, the budget committee, according to the outcome of the discussion, asks us to go back to the 35th and support it. And I'm putting this proposal to a vote. So whoever supports the budget committee's proposal, back to the 35th Amendment, please vote and please support the budget committee so that we don't get a balanced law. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote, please support, vote. [[13:28:40]] For 212 212, colleagues. I can do it again, but I can't see the voices. So next, 34 revisions. So I'm going to go back to 34 revisions. And, colleagues, I'm very careful that we don't balance the document, because then we won't be able to get a full document. I ask you to support the position of the committee to return to number 34. Colleagues, I urge everyone, first of all, to enter the hall and take part in the vote. And secondly, to vote in favour of returning to the 34th. It's very important, it's a request from the Budget Committee. Please vote and please support the return. Should I Explain or Not? You have to, right? Constantine! Constantine! Kosta, explain, because so that people know what they're voting for, quickly and flexibly, please, what is 34 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, replacing the regulations under this amendment is an environmental tax that increases by 25 percent to the state budget and decreases for the district and city of Kiev by 25 percent. But it's the only way to normalize procedures for laboratory diagnostic prevention work and maintenance of veterinary hospitals and veterinary laboratories, because. Because there were really big problems at these institutions. So I'm asking you very much to support either 34 or 35, they're the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u165	Thank you. So the committee representative explained in detail, asking everyone to take up jobs, colleagues. I ask everyone to vote and support. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to support the return to number 34, and I'm asking everyone to support the budget committee. So, colleagues, this is the position of the Budget Committee. I ask everyone to support the return to Amendment 34 and ask everyone to take part in the vote and vote. So, colleagues, please vote and support the return to 34 allowances so that we don't balance the budget. Please vote and please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Let's vote! Please be supportive. [[13:31:56]] For 208 There are no votes to go back. We're done here, we're moving to acceptance. So, colleagues. Committee, may I proceed to the vote? I can. I'll put it to a vote. Okay! One minute, Daniluk. Daniluk! As part of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, be careful. I give you my word. Please, Minister, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u166	Honourable deputies, 34 and 35. This is about 800 million budget imbalances. So that's a very serious amount. And yet the request to return and support, otherwise we have an unbalanced budget. That's the first one. The other one. We've been working on the I-II level of accreditation with Mr. Spivakowski, and we've come up with a common position that we're proposing. Are you gonna sound it or am I? Now, Mr. Spiowakovsky, this is an agreed position with the government, a change to article 24: "Ensure as an exception to the "b" clause. In paragraph 7 of the first part of article 87 of the Ukrainian Budget Code: "From 1 January 2018, the implementation of expenditure on services for the preparation of professionals in higher education institutions of I-II levels of State ownership accreditation without the status of individual legal persons at the expense of the funds provided for in the funds of higher education institutions II and IV levels of accreditation. Ensure, as of September 1, 2018, the admission of professionals to higher education institutions I-II levels of State ownership accreditation without the status of individual legal persons solely under the professions of public interest at the expense of and within the general scope of government procurement for the training of professionals at educational and professional levels of "youth specialist" and." I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u167	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u168	It's a baccalaure. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u169	I'll do it again. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, arrived in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome the Prime Minister. [[Applause]] And I'll give you one more minute for the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u170	Good afternoon, Reverend Mr. Head, distinguished fellow national MPs! A very responsible day, I realize that there are various attempts there to make adjustments whether to count or not. What is 800 million? It's 800 million that's going to stay in the district budgets, and you and I have veterinary medicine, clinics and everything, it's not going to be like just funding, we have to understand that. And so to be balanced, because this tax was fixed by local budgets to do this function. They don't do it, and that's the problem: take part of it and keep it. I'm stressing it's 800 million, it's a program. If we don't count it now, the money will stay in the areas, and the programs won't. And I think that the question of epizootic action, including the phenomena that we've had, from the point of view of African plague and so on, needs solutions from us. So this rebalancing took place just for that, there's no other issue here and no one's insulting the local budgets. We gave 10 percent of the company's income tax, we gave 15 percent of the VAT. But there are also functions of the state that we have to perform with you. So I would still like to take into account the position of the budget committee, which I have considered in detail. And I see no harm in keeping this issue within the state. What Alexander Daniluk said and what Mr. Spivakowski is now confirming, we support it. I'd like to support you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u171	Thank you. Colleagues, I've only heard one position from the committee: 34 amendments and 35th. If the committee hears any more positions, I'll give them a ring. So once again, at the request of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, I will make a proposal to return to amendment 34, 35. And I'm going to ask you to do some excruciating. And if the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister are interested in getting us back to the amendment, they should ask the deputies to return. I say again, if it doesn't pass now, it will be your personal responsibility. Because a few deputies are found here, not in jobs. I'm warning you, I'm betting. If they don't come back, it'll just collapse. So I'm putting to the vote the proposal that the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister are asked to support: go back to the 34th. [[B in m in s a l in]] So please support the return to the 34th, 35th. And I'm asking you to support this proposal. Please vote and please support the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:37:50]] For 240 We're back. Now I ask you to support Amendment 34, 35. Please vote and please support. Each voice has a weight. Leonid, I'll tell you: I count every vote, the job and the vote. Please vote and please support. Please be supportive. Vote. Please support, vote, amendment 34, 35. Vote. We'll support the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance's proposal. [[13:38:23]] For 246 Decision taken. Now make up an amendment to Spervakowski. Who's going to make it? Siewakovsky. One minute. Make an amendment, Spiowakovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u172	Thank you. Dear colleagues, for that, we have found a compromise where 371 colleges, which are now in university structures, remain on the state budget. So, I'm reading. First: "In article 24 of the bill, paragraph 5 reads as follows: "The Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Culture, together with the higher educational institutions of Ukraine II and III-IV levels of accreditation." Paragraph 6 states in the following edition: "By 1 June 2018, decide on the entry of higher education institutions of the I-II level of accreditation with the status of individual legal persons into higher education institutions of the III-IV level of accreditation as well as their structural divisions. This entry takes place on the basis of a decision made by the working groups of such institutions and their founders, with further approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine no later than a month from the date of receipt of such decisions. Paragraph eight: "exclusion. Two, three. From Appendix 10 to the draft law, that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u173	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u174	In particular, the list of educational institutions that are transferred to finance from local budgets exclude higher education institutions from the third level of accreditation without the status of individual legal persons who are part of higher education institutions of the III-IV level of accreditation." Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u175	Thank you. The government's backing it up. I'm asking you to get all your cars, and I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. I'm putting to the vote a proposal just made by Singerowski under the transcript. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, please support, each vote. Please vote, please support, please support. The government supports, the committee supports. [[13:40:32]] For 297 297, friends, just a minute! And the last amendment is the Urban Deputy, one minute. And then we move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u176	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to these amendments to the Budget Code and to the amendment of 285 People's Deputies of Denisenko. I wanted to point out that the customs experiment that we've been doing and working very successfully all these years, it's going to be stopped with the editorial that the government has been offering us. So I want to go back to looking at Denisenko's 285th amendment. and accept, and vote in Dennisenk's editorial, this amendment. We all feel and desire that our ways, Ukrainians, develop. So I think that this amendment is unifying. And I ask our colleagues from the opposition, from the democratic opposition, and from the coalition to vote and support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u177	Thank you very much. So there was a call for a return to Amendment 285. The government and the Prime Minister don't support this proposal, they don't support it. It is thought to balance the budget. Who supports Urbansky's offer to return to the amendment. So the government supports this proposal. Colleagues, the government supports this proposal. So the government also recommends returning to the 285. And just so there's no difference, I'll give you the Prime Minister's word, one minute. Please, Prime Minister, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u178	Can I have one word? Dear fellow national MPs! I want to say that I respect and respect your opinion. From this rostrum a year and a half ago, I was talking about how we're going to start a major road construction. You know that the experiment is part of this system. The overall funding budget is 46 billion for the following year. This amendment just balances the release of the road experiment, which was launched in the fifteenth year, at least 6 billion. If you take this right now, I think it's going to be a huge problem. I want to stress that we support her, this amendment. We're basically the whole budget code. And then we'll continue to build roads. And I assure you that in every area there will be the construction of such roads. I think it's either a mistreatment or something. But I'm asking you, let's leave this paper. We've been working on it for months. We know it's important. It's important to the coalition, it's important to the President. So please let's do this in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u179	Thank you. So, clearly: Prime Minister, the government supports Amendment 285. So I ask you to go back to her and support her. Colleagues, everyone, please be alert. I'm voting on the proposal to return to regulation 285. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Each voice has a weight. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:44:04]] For 260 We're back. 260. And please support Amendment 285. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please support the government. Please support the amendment. [[13:44:24]] For 248 248. Decision taken. And, colleagues, the last, the technical adjustment, it's really technical. Then let's move on to making a decision. Fish, one minute. I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u180	Alexei Rybchin, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to have a technical report on the higher education institutions transferred. There are 6 colleges: Donetsk, Luhanské MVD, Donetskka, Lugansk Academy of Culture and Donetský, Luhanský MHO, which are simply because of technical things, they refer to different ministries, not directly subordinated to the Ministry of Education and Science, and they can't get a government fixed order. Please change the words "the central authority of the executive branch in the field of education and science" to "the central organs of the executive branch in which such institutions are established." All of it. There's nothing technical about them being able to accept students from Donetsk, from Luhansk and from Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u181	Mr. Alexei, everyone backs up. No one's denying it. And when I put the law to the vote, I'm going to say, "with the readjustment that the Fish has heard by the vote." And, colleagues, let's finally move on to making a decision. We still have the alimony law next so that we can get through it. Everyone please take up jobs to mobilize. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (amendment 34, 35, which we voted on; the amendment of the Spiwakowski, which was resonated under the transcripts; the amendment of 285 of the Urban Code; the amendment that Rybchin made under the transcript) in the second reading and in general. Please vote. Please support in the second reading and in general 7,116. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:46:32]] For 265 265. The law is passed. This is an important step. And, colleagues, it's very important right now. Attention! Everybody in position! So that we can continue the evening session until the budget issues are adopted. It's very important, colleagues. I'm begging you. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. And I'm making a proposal. In accordance with part five of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I propose the continuation of the evening plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the conclusion of the 2018 review of the issues of the State budget. In that all interested, all factions have their questions in order of the day. Please vote. Please vote, please support. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues, before we consider budget issues. Please be supportive. [[13:47:33]] For 246 246. Decision taken. Colleagues, everyone, please. We have a very important law, and we have voted for it today. This is a bill, as we call it, on alimony, on proper maintenance by improving the order of compulsory debt collection from alimony payments. Before we go to this bill, I ask you, one minute, Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u182	Thank you. High-ranking national deputies, although thanking you for the first law in the budget package. I am deeply convinced that today we will make a responsible decision. So again, thank you so much for your understanding and support. And don't worry, and we'll take care of the clinics, and we'll hear the MPs' opinion. Another position that's important is forests, reforestation. It's 500 million tampor, but now we're going to work out a solution, and then we're going to go out into the hall, and I think it's going to bring everybody together, so that we don't just balance the budget so that the southern areas might be rained down. We'll get to the bottom of this. And one more thing is very important. What Alexander Volodymyrovich said is that the amendment was actually budgeted. So I would ask her to be included in the budget itself when voting on the budget. It's not in the budget, it's in the budget. But we recognize it, it's very valid. Thank you very much again. And at 16 we're going to start working, or we're going to keep working on this important issue. Well, there must be support for children in Ukraine. There are no other people's children. So this initiative -- to increase responsibility for alimony failure -- we would very much ask that it find its support in the House of the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you very much again, with great respect and respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u183	So, colleagues, let's go to 7277 -- this is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the protection of the child's right to due maintenance by improving the order of compulsory debt from payment (No. 7277). Colleagues, this is about 50 rights. I very much ask all right-wing authors to understand that we have a very bad time. And try as effectively as possible to pass this bill. And I invite the head of the committee's committee on legal policy and justice, Alexeiev Igor Sergiyovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u184	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. We're looking at a very important alimony bill. Let me remind you that this bill has signed over 40 national deputies of all factions. This bill and the preparation for the second reading received 200 amendments, which the committee proposes to support 91 amendments, to take into account an editorial two, and 105 amendments were rejected. As a result of its consideration of the bill at a committee meeting, the committee recommends that the bill be adopted in a second reading and in general with one small clarification. It is necessary to remove the first paragraph of article 157 of the Ukrainian Family Code from the second edition of article 157 of the Family Code, which reads as follows: "The parent with whom the child resides by decision of the court decides on the issue of the place of residence, the place of the child, the place and the form of education, the receiving of medical care and the receiving of health care." So this second reading paragraph is suggested to be removed in the final form during the vote. Ready to report to the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u185	Thank you. Colleagues, we're starting to move on to the repairs. 1st. Knazevitch. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u186	I will simply add, on behalf of the committee, as chairman of the committee, that we have yet to propose a part of article 367 of the CPC to supplement by a new paragraph the second such content that, following a review of a court decision under newly declared or exclusive circumstances, the Supreme Court may also annul a court decision, a court decision in whole or in part, and refer cases to the court of the first or the appeal institution in order to unify that rule in these codes. Please simply, I do not insist on my amendment, but please, when voting in general, I must take this amendment into account on behalf of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u187	We vote, please, Amendment No. 1 of the Head of the Profile Committee, who asks here to strengthen essentially responsibility. Please be supportive. [[13:52:11]] For-140. It doesn't take up the necessary amount. Colleagues, I'm continuing my morning session for 15 minutes so that we can consider this bill before the end of the morning session. Mr. Knazevitch, are you insisting on other amendments? Sidorovich. 13th. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u188	Dear fellow national MPs! It's actually being considered, really, a very important law because we need to increase the responsibility of those who don't pay alimony. But at the same time, there is a very important quality to this bill in order for it to actually be able to carry out the tasks that have been discussed in both the report and these motives that have been signed by colleagues. That's why I'm asking you to take into account my 13th amendment, in which section I of sub-paragraphs 4 and 5 of paragraph 1 delete, paragraph 6 and consider paragraph 4. This is about restrictions on the use of vehicles. It is predicted that there will be no restriction if a person engages directly in entrepreneurial activities on a means of transport. But, colleagues, imagine what a person is doing, for example, growing vegetables and driving them to the market, and this is the only source of income for such a citizen. If we take him out.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u189	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u190	This kind of disqualification of the right of use, we can deprive it of its ability to finally pay off these alimony, which is to some extent absurd. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to support my 13th amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u191	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, please vote for amendment number 13. [[13:54:14]] For-126 You don't get an amendment to your votes. 14th. Lechenko. Don't insist. It insists, please, on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u192	Levchenko "Freedom" 223 District of Kiev. My amendment refers, in fact, to what Ruslan Sidorovich has just talked about, absolutely correct arguments have been made. Very often, this Supreme Council, in an effort to take some seemingly popular steps for society, is working out absurd norms under the fine titles of the bill. The bill is generally a good, good name for the bill, good standards. But why prescribe a standard that works against the purpose of the bill itself? If you're forbidding the alimony payer to use the means of transport that he can use to make a profit from which he has to pay these alimony, then please excuse me, what is this nonsense? So the law suggests that the rest of the bill be crossed out and self-denialed. So I also propose, like Ruslan Sidorovich, that this absurd norm on the ban on driving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u193	Colleagues, please determine for Amendment 14. And in fact, two of our colleagues have set the same standards that they believe will improve the opportunity for children to receive alimony and families. Please be supportive. [[13:55:54]] For 113 It doesn't take up the necessary amount. Oksana Prodan doesn't insist. Yuri Pavlenko, don't you insist? We're here now. Your changes have not been made yet. I'm tracking you down. Semenha, 46th, please. I announced 46th, please, now I'm going to see what we have with the 22nd. 46th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u194	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Honorary colleagues, in the second reading bill, have been left behind, in my view, to contravene controversial standards that may in essence be discriminatory in relation to those parents with whom children are separated from their home, but at the same time parents are conscientiously fulfilling their duties. Let’s face it, there are many parents in the country today, especially men who, for one reason or another, do not have access to a child but who are conscientiously carrying out their duties and who want to be decent parents. And in this way, separating them from the full effect on the child’s upbringing is not fair. So my amendment foresees that the parent with whom the child resides has the right to decide on his or her own issues of education, treatment, and residence only if the other parent systematically avoids alimony payments and does not participate in the child’s upbringing. This bill cannot be credited to men who conscientiously carry out their duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u195	Thank you for your clarification. My colleagues, in fact, have a different history in society when they try to blackmail their other half by blackmailing their child. Please identify yourself now with Amendment 46 to make it impossible and blackmailing a child. I'd like to make a statement. It's 46 revisions, then it's 22. [[13:57:55]] For the 120th. 120 votes, not enough for adoption. Now there's 22 amendments. Please, Mr. Roman, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u196	Dear colleagues! The bill provides for the possibility of the executioner, an evil alimony payer, such as the limitation of his ability to drive a vehicle, the right to use a weapon, and the use of hunting. It must be agreed that these measures must be put in place to provide an additional incentive for them to fulfill their parental responsibilities. But it is quite obvious that applying these restrictions will avoid giving a driver’s license or a hunter’s license. Therefore, my amendment establishes responsibility for such actions, this amendment seems perfectly logical, since the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences has already established responsibility for the failure to comply with other legal requirements of the perpetrator. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u197	We're going to define 22 amendments. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:59:05]] For 116 There are no votes. Let's move on. 47th Sidorovich. 43rd, Pawel. I didn't hear. Jura Pavlenko didn't hear. Please, Yuri Pavlovenko microphone, 43 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, the amendment suggests that changes be made in order to eliminate contradictions with the rules of article 41. 141 The Family Code. Article 157 puts it in a slightly changed edition that is proposed. In some ways, it also strengthens the protection of children and protects, as appropriate, the potential of the parent in whom the child is raised. And I'd like your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u199	We're voting for 43 amendments. [[14:00:18]] For-126 He's not. 46th Semenha. Don't insist. 47th Sidorovich. He insists. Please. Let's take 47th and 50th right away, shall we?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u200	Well, they're different in their nature, so I can't physically report them together. Dear colleagues, look, let's not get any new help: help for help and help. It is proposed to complete. I suggest you delete this part. Help on the availability of alimony debt is provided by the State’s executive body as a private performer in accordance with the law. What is the purpose of this help? That is to say, when the perpetrator is obliged to take specific action, he will do so: Whether to apply to the court with the need to make appropriate restrictive action against the debtor or to do so on his own if he is entrusted with such authority. I don't see any need for any help. By adopting comprehensive legislation on implementing reform, we tried to maximize corruption, that is, reduce corruption. So please delete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u201	47 amendment, we vote. [[14:01:58]] For 114 He doesn't get the votes right. 50 repairs, Sidorovich. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u202	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. The amendment refers to a very important and very sensitive issue involving the child’s going abroad with the parent with whom the child lives. I'm going to suggest the next mechanism is to split it up. We predict at the level of the legislative initiative that by the month of time, another parent should not give permission to avoid blackmailing his parents. Yet, together with talking about going out for more than a month, we need to be divided — going out for treatment and learning. The question of going to school, it can't be urgent and sudden, that is, it's obvious that the parent who wants to take the child to school is preparing for this, and he can tell the other parent who's not deprived of parental rights, so that he can understand where his child's going, what conditions, how he's going to be provided with the right means. At the same time, a child who is being taken out for urgent emergency treatment needs to be provided with an effective exit mechanism for such a child, but also after the information.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u203	I see. We're voting on Amendment 50. [[14:03:29]] For a-117. Colleagues, it's the 49th Amendment, the Southern People's Deputy. The request that we focus on the key amendments, because we have a very difficult parliamentary day ahead. Please, Mrs. Yuzkova. 49th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u204	Aunt Yuzkov, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u205	Colleagues, I want to talk to everyone. Who's speaking now? Yuskov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u206	Tetjana Yuzkov, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. As far as I could tell, the committee ruled out the part. First part of article 157 of the Ukrainian Family Code. But I still insist that they vote on my amendment, because it sets out a safeguard against the abuse of alimony rights, such as preventing a second parent from participating in parenting and communicating with a child. I'd like the MP Corps to support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u207	We vote in favour of 49 amendments to the Southern MP. Please. [[14:04:54]] For 128
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u208	The decision is not made. Colleagues, authors of law! I have a very convincing request for you. I've been informed by both the committee and the minister that all positions have been agreed upon, that the bill is consistent. We have 10 minutes left for his consideration, and I just have a huge request to the right-wing authors that we be able to vote at 2:15, don't put all the votes on. I just have a very big request, because we can knock down an important social bill that has a huge population ahead of us. Please, my friends. Okay? So 56th. Are you insisting? No, it doesn't. 73rd. Don't insist. 78th. Don't insist. Sidorovich, please. Sidorovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u209	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self - Help Unit. Regulation 56. She speaks of a child’s right to go abroad. If we're talking about possible negative consequences for someone who doesn't pay alimony, for the alimony underpaid. Explain why? I'm sure there's just a mistake in the developers because I can't believe they wanted to make that. It is written that a natural person who has not reached the age of 16 has the right to leave outside Ukraine only with the consent of his parents, adoptive parents, caregivers, and accompanying or accompanying those who are authorized by him. However, it is suggested that this should be complemented, except in cases provided for by law. If we're restricting the exit, the exit of the child, more faithfully, of the one who has to pay alimony, why do we foresee the possibility of restricting the exit of the child? It's nonsense. In that case, if there's some kind of court meeting about the order of the intersection, well, that's one question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u210	Thank you. I'll bet you 56 votes. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. The committee turned her down. [[14:07:08]] For 122 The decision is not made. Sidorovich again. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u211	I'm just going to read a few amendments that I'm asking for confirmation. This is amendment 60, 61, 63 and 68. Then in the next one, I'm going to put some more on the line. Dear colleagues, when we adopt legislation to amend legislation in part of alimony, we should not go into areas that do not apply to this bill, so that we can theoretically go to the adoption of this bill as a result of the consideration of amendments. Changes to the Master's Procedural Code. alimony issues don't apply in any way at all. So I suggest, once again, 60, 61, 63 and 68 put on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u212	So, colleagues, I'm betting on confirmation of the amendment that has just been recalculated. It's all for confirmation, isn't it? 60th for confirmation. The committee's asking them to support it, the committee's asking them to vote for it. 60 clearance for confirmation. Please vote, please support. Please support the committee. [[2:08:39]] For-144 The decision is not taken. 61st. Please vote, please support. The confirmation committee, please support the committee. [[2:08:57]] For-136 63rd. The decision is not made here. Please support the committee. Please vote. [[14:09:15]] For 134 The decision is not taken. 68th. Please vote, support the committee, please vote in favour. [[14:09:34]] For 134 The decision is not taken. Next. Semenha Roman, two drafts. Colleagues, there are four minutes left, please, I'm asking you very much. Then we'll just crash the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u213	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Please give me two minutes, I'll give you the meaning of my two rights. One: 191. Colleagues, the bill proposes new types of enforcement decisions that may apply to debtors, particularly temporary debt repayments. Limitation of traffic control. The draft states that the rule does not apply when such a restriction deprives the borrower of the principal legal source of means of subsistence. I believe that the list of professions that allow you to avoid penalties in the form of restrictions on the management of vehicles should be detailed to prevent possible abuses. So I'm proposing an amendment to support which predicts that it would be Kablin who would approve a list of such professions. And the second is 193. Its essence is that the bill foresees that one of the measures that applies to a person who evades the obligation to pay alimony is his restriction on the right to leave abroad. At the same time, the bill does not take into account the possibility of extremely adverse situations, even.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u214	I put to the vote the sound of the amendments. It's an amendment, if I'm right, 191, right? Again? 192 and 193. 192nd. So whoever supports the 192, please vote, the committee rejected it. Please. [[14:11:33]] For 109 The decision is not made. 191st in favour, I ask you to vote. The committee turned her down. [[14:11:58]] For 111 The decision is not made. And 193, right, Roman? Roman! And 193 more, right? And in 193, the committee turned it down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. Ouch! I thought you sounded. I'll give you a minute. [[14:12:21]] For 113 The decision is not made. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, I'm going to tell you the text of my amendment, because it's very important, it's supposed to protect conscientious parents. The bill provides that one of the measures that applies to a person who avoids paying alimony is to limit his right to leave abroad. At the same time, the bill does not take into account the possibility of extreme disadvantages even in the lives of such debtors. Therefore, I propose that only two clear exceptions be set by my right to leave abroad: for treatment in connection with the debtor’s severe illness for documentary confirmation, and for the second for the death or serious illness of the debtor’s loved one, who is permanently or temporarily living abroad because of also documentary confirmation. In other cases, the temporary limitation on going abroad may be applied to the repayment of debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u216	Thank you. We voted on all the amendments you insisted on. We have one minute left. Is it really so important that we break the bill? Please, Yuri Pavlovenko. Turn on the microphone. Colleagues! Colleagues, pay attention! I'm talking to the whole room, is the room okay for us to complete our consideration of this bill? Is there no objection? There's none. So without a vote, I'm going to decide that we're going to work in the morning until we consider this bill. Yeah? Yes. There's no objection in the hall. Please, Yuri Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u217	Dear colleagues! In fact, understanding that this is an extremely important law and that the Opposition Block will support it in the second reading and in general. And I'm willing, for the sake of time, to agree with the committee on the whole series of amendments I've made, even though I think they're doing a lot better with the law. But there is one important thing that I would like to put to the vote is Amendment 143, which concerns amendments to the Ukrainian National Police Act. I want to point out that this law is called "Strengthening the Protection of the Rights of the Child." At the same time, this amendment introduces the mandate of the police and its tasks, inter alia, "to take measures to ensure public safety, to eliminate threats to the life and health of public officials and other officials". I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u218	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u219	I urge you to add: "directed to the elimination of threats to life and health, to the authorization of the police, to the child in the first place, and then to the officials." Regrettably, police work in implementing these decisions does not provide for child protection. I know a lot of times when government executives and police exceed their powers by hurting a child. So I would like to support the rights of the child.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u220	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote Amendment 143 and asking everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. Whoever supports Amendment 143 (the committee rejected it), please vote. [[14:16:15]] For 148 The decision is not made. Next. Anointing, right? Drozdik, Drozdik, one minute Drozdik. Colleagues, pay attention! Attention, colleagues! I'm asking for your attention. Do we all agree to continue until the end? Let's do it by vote, colleagues. Attention, I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. I'm going to put a motion to the vote before the issue is closed. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and vote. If I don't, I'm going to have to stop the discussion right now. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And I'm putting a motion to vote so that we can now work on the extraordinary social issue of alimony. Please vote and please support, please vote and please support. Please vote and please support, please support, support our friends, support our colleagues. [[14:17:17]] For 207 My colleagues didn't get it. We've got five or seven minutes left, colleagues. I ask you to uphold social law again, I ask you to vote. I'm betting once again that we're going to work on this before it's over, that's another five minutes. Please vote and please support, colleagues, please support. Vote, please support, vote. All agreed, all supported, please support, colleagues. [[14:17:47]] For 235 Thank you. Decision taken. I'll give Drizzle a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u221	I ask you to support this law in general, taking into account two technical rights. First, this is article 325 with badge 1, which is the new entry, paragraph 3, in the new edition: "For the performance of socially beneficial work, the offender is paid for the actual time worked and accounted for by the State Enforcement Authority." And the second change is in Article 157: Part 5 deletes the first paragraph. And with these observations taken into account, vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u222	Thank you. Please, Igor Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u223	Your Honor, the changes to article 157, I read about removing the first paragraph first before your first proposal, and the committee supports. The committee also supports the proposals made by the head of the Committee, Knyazevic Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u224	Thank you. Who are the rightful authors, or can we move on to making a decision? Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. I'm asking you to prepare for the decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Knazević – one minute, Levchenko – one minute. Please come into the hall. Two minutes, two minutes to make a decision. And the minister, fine. First one, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u225	Since I am acting as chairman of the committee as the author of the amendments, which have been approved and not supported, I would like to return to these amendments and, in general, vote on these amendments and vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u226	Name the numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u227	This is number 60, 61, 63 and 68. As for my first speech, the paragraph just confirmed once again that, according to the paragraph in my first speech. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u228	Thank you. Thank you. Lechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u229	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Regrettably, today the Supreme Council continues its illegal activity in violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations. At first, the budget code was adopted illegally, colossal changes, failed to work properly, silently, as it happens. And now, in principle, a normal bill, he has it. He's 90 percent of the normal bill, but there are obvious absurd things in it, obviously absurd. For example, banning driving is not a payer’s business, but it prevents him from paying alimony. So instead of talking about it properly, solve it, they try to quickly, quickly, quickly, quickly. Why? And in order for Soboljev to be released after lunch, budget flows to be distributed and what else, and some other illegal, anti-national things to be done. Please work on the Rules. There was, by the way, no need to continue working until the end of the discussion, you could continue the discussion after lunch, as is always done with any other drafts in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u230	Thank you. And the last performance is Minister Petrenko. And then we go to the vote. Please come into the hall and take your seats. Please, Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank you for working on this bill. This bill is the co-authorship of all factions: the leaders of the factions of the People's Front, the Peter Poroshenko Block, the Radical Party. Whether you are in opposition or in power, you have supported a bill that applies to 600,000 children. All the counterversal stuff we took off. This bill allows, in fact, good - conscienceed parents to raise their children. [[B in m in s a l in]] So I ask that we do not immediately overthrow the important initiative that children are looking forward to, to vote on it in general, taking into account the intervention by Ruslan Knazević, the reporter Igor Alekseyev, with technical and legal remedies that have been sounded by our fellow MPs, including from the Radical Party, and to sign this law, to enable children to be properly supported. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u232	Colleagues, pay attention! I'm going to be the first to make a suggestion to Knyazevitch: go back to the right, support, and then, in general, colleagues. Please get everyone involved, take up jobs. First sentence of the committee: Go back to the rights of 60, 61, 63, 68. Without that, the committee believes the law will be balanced. Please vote, please support the committee's proposal. Vote, fellows! We'll hold it! Please vote, please support! Vote! [[14:22:40]] For the 250. We're back. 250. Please support the 60, 61, 63, 68. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote! Please be supportive. Vote. [[14:23:02]] For 237 Decision taken. And I'm voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the protection of the child's right to due maintenance by improving the order of compulsory debt from payment of alimony (No. 7277) with rights that have been issued under the transcript by Dziblik, the national deputy, and taking into account those rights that have just been confirmed: Drozdika, Alexeieva. The Prince has already voted on the drafts. And with technical law. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, please. I'd like your support, colleagues. We support the children, we support, we vote, we vote. Please be supportive. Both the Jehoshaphat and the Jusak’s administration and the Jusak’s administration, yes. [[14:24:00]] For 294 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Congratulations, fellows! It was a difficult emotional discussion, but we were able to make a decision. [[Applause]] Please, Irina Lucenko, one minute. Petrenko, one minute. Heratchenka, one minute. Talk, talk. Irina Lucenko. Turn the microphone on in the stands.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the women gathered on the balcony today, who were not afraid to say that they are victims of domestic violence, who are raising their children themselves, I call upon you. of which there is great respect and great gratitude for your support for such serious laws today. Girls, I am so grateful for your active position. Dear male colleagues, dear female colleagues, we are very grateful to you. We have done a great deal today, and our children will have the opportunity to develop in a peaceful, full and secure family. Thank you all so much!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u234	One minute, Petrenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u235	I want to thank all the factions that are the authors of this law. These are the factions of the coalition, these are the factions of the opposition, the opposition block. All groups today are united to support their children. I want to thank directly the leader of the Radical Party, who was one of the most active questioners of this law. [[Applause]] You guys are great. Irina Lucenko has done a huge job in the past two days. And I want to thank the Head of the Supreme Council, Andrey Parbia, who passed this law today, and the Committee of Profiles. Friends, the main thing right now is to unite so that they can be signed. And I'm talking to all the parents who forgot about their kids. Think of the children! Do not violate their rights! Do your duty to every child, no foreign children! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u236	Thank you. And for the announcement, the word is given to Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u237	Colleagues, we are now going to have two very important international meetings, and now we have an opportunity in 833 cabinets in Sadowia, 3 and to meet the candidate for the Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe, these elections will take place in January, Yves Le Bornem. I'm asking everyone who wants to join the meeting. And so is the Minsk Platform, where we meet our Croatian colleagues in exchange. I ask you to join all those who follow up on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m0.u238	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it was a very emotional but very productive morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And I'd like everyone to come to the hall at 4:00 to continue our work. Thank you.
