ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues ready for registration? I'd like you to sign up. [[10:05:16]] 330 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, on Sunday, we will celebrate a holy day for all Ukrainians, the Day of Assembly of Ukraine. It is a celebration that is on an equal footing with Independence Day, followed by the blood of many generations of Ukrainians for the will of our nation. It is very symbolic that on January 22, 18th, the Fourth University of the Central Council was proclaimed the independence of our country, and a year later, on January 22, 19th, there was the unification of the UNR and the Western Ukrainian People's Republic, which were united into one undisclosed assembly state. Today, at a time when the Russian occupation on our lands is carrying out aggression, it is important for us to remember this symbolic act of unity in our lands. And we have our brothers who are now in occupied territory, saying that we will do everything we can to drive out the Russian invader, restore territorial integrity, and demonstrate that the unity and unity of Ukraine is the highest value for us. So I welcome you to the festival that will take place on Sunday. [[Applause]] Colleagues, today, according to the Rules, we have an hour of questions to the government. Colleagues, let's meet today with the birthday of Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman of Ukraine, his birthday today. [[Applause]] And we welcome Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Stepan Ivanovich Kubiwa and the entire government that has arrived today for "the hour of questions to the government." Welcome, colleagues. [[Applause]] And according to our regulations, we will first have statements from the government and then questions from the deputies to our government. And first, I invite you to the speech of First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Stéphane Ivanovich Kubeva. Stepan Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u2	Good day to you all. Christ was born! Christ Baptizes! Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! 2016 was an unforgivable year for us, the Russian Federation continued the trade war against Ukraine and devised a new way of economic aggression, limiting transit of Ukrainian goods. World prices on key commodity markets for us have fallen against the backdrop of fierce world competition, but we have endured. Thanks to the well-balanced steps taken by the government, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the unity of the government, the President and the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the gradual updating of damaged financial production links, the formation of new emphasis in the direction of economic activity has been able to achieve macroeconomic stability and restore economic growth. And we're seeing a positive dynamic. On 9 months 2016, real GDP growth was 1.3 per cent, with an increase of 0.1 in the first quarter to the previous quarter, 1.4 in the second quarter, 2 per cent in the third quarter of 2016. Unlike previous years, the sources of growth were not external factors but internal, investment, and consumer demand. At the same time, the negative influence of external factors has been practically levelled. An important factor in improving economic dynamics was the initial structural changes made by the government, the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine. The actions of our government, led by Vladimir Groissman, have played an important role in these achievements, aimed at deregulation of entrepreneurial activities, improving the business climate, improving the efficiency of public investment management and the public sector of the economy. We have started to successfully implement the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, particularly in the creation of a deeper and inclusive free trade zone. We have also intensified the government's activity in foreign trade policy, which has allowed most economic agents to successfully go through the adaptation period and move on to new forms of economic functioning. One of the major achievements of 2016 is that we signed the Free Trade Agreement with Canada. Economic reforms show real results. Ukraine rose in its 80 - position business ease rating. We continue to make business easier as a result of a deregulation day, 367 outdated and illegal regulatory acts have been abolished in the government. We're turning the control organs into service. About 21,000 30 per cent of the total number of planned inspections included in the 2016 integrated planning plan were carried out by state oversight and control bodies in a comprehensive manner. In addition, we continued the moratorium on extracurricular checks until December 2017. Since August 1, 2016, the total electronic purchase of ProZorro has already saved more than 10 billion taxpayers in bracelets. Today, Ukrainian exports for 11 months 2016 have also been subsumed. We're already seeing an increase of $537.4 million, or 4.1 percent, in agri-industry exports by 57.7 million, or 7.1 percent, of various industrial goods by 16.3 million, or 1.7 percent. The government has consistently and persistently continued reforms that improve the lives of ordinary citizens. We know that people feel the results of our work. We were able to restore citizens' confidence in the Ukrainian economy. There has been a decrease in the shadow economy by five points, the largest in years of observation. For the first time since 2012, there has been an increase in machinery construction, with a significant loss of sales markets, including the Russian Federation, partly diversifying them, including the volume of exports of freight wagons in 11 months 2016, rising 1.3 times with the largest shipments to Turkmenistan, and a change in the direction of production of chassis. The largest increase in volume is seen in the production of instruments and equipment for measuring, research, and navigation. 2016 became the year when industry and industrial policy reemerged among the government’s priorities, since the potential of the Ukrainian industry is extraordinary. 25 years ago, industry accounted for 44 percent of GDP, although in Europe 20 percent is considered normal. And in Ukraine, there are all the preconditions for restoring its industrial size, which will allow jobs worth paying, producing high-value goods that use demand in Europe and the world. But this requires uniting efforts and focusing them on the most effective ways of development. To create an industrial recovery strategy in 2016, we set up a national industrial development committee. The National Industrial Committee brought together leading Ukrainian scientists and industrialists under the chairmanship of Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman of Ukraine. In 2017, an industrial development strategy is already in place that will allow industry, science and power to concentrate and focus on the restoration of large industrial production, to develop and strengthen existing products, to improve and improve the products produced in Ukraine. This will allow us to move away from raw materials and increase the production of high-cost goods in transport, agriculture, air, energy engineering, manufacturing, arms production, military and special technology. This will allow you to create more technological production, improve working conditions through the introduction of modern technologies, create new jobs with decent pay levels in various regions of Ukraine. Ukrainian production will become more competitive in world markets, Ukraine will become more investment attractive to investors, existing production will be more effective by increasing energy efficiency and resource conservation. In 2016, in the country, all the economic activity in the real economy, including 11 months, grew by 2.1 per cent, agricultural production by 6.1 per cent, construction by 14.1, trade by 4.3, transport by 2.2. Under these conditions, as well as under the changes made to tax legislation aimed at improving the administration of payments, creating more equal and fair tax conditions, and increasing the budget for revenue to the State Budget for 2016, against 2015, increased by 15.2 per cent, to 616.2 billion dollars; the annual revenue allocation of the State Budget with changes was converted to 1.2 or 7.1 billion dollars; for the first time, the real wage has increased by 8.8 per cent over the last two years. At the same time, the nominal average monthly salary of employees in January-November 2016 increased by 23.8 percent. Today it's 5 thousand and 70 dollars. The 2017 forecast is quite optimistic. We're changing the pattern of economic development. If the previous model was based on consumer demand expansion, which was largely satisfied by imports due to a backlog of domestic production, the current steady economic growth, investment-innovation-based formation will be the main drivers of Ukraine's development, both export and investment demand. This is the position of ministers, this is the position of the government, this is the position of Prime Minister of Ukraine. The active expansion of investment activities, on the one hand, is called for to change the quality of production and on the other, requires greater confidence in all market subjects. Improving business conditions, improving competition, privatization in conditions of macroeconomic stability, stimulate growth in investment both internally and externally. At the same time, the implementation of investment projects to resupply most of the core funds will increase the quality of domestic production and help bring its parameters closer to the level of developed economies. This will result in the expansion and opening up of new markets for Ukrainian exporters, such as Asia, Africa. Greater cooperation with the European Union will also contribute to increased exports and, accordingly, Ukrainian production. In turn, economic opportunities will serve as a basis for progressively improving the standard of living of the population, increasing wages, including through government actions, unity, cooperation with the Ukrainian Parliament, aimed at raising the level of national social standards, developing entrepreneurial initiatives, improving labour migration regulation and self-adaptation. With this scenario, as noted earlier, we predict an increase in GDP of 3 percent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u3	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich, for the report. And I invite you to speak to Vice Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG of Ukraine Hennady Grigorovich Zubka. Mr. Hennaday, please be 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished colleagues of government, I would like to start my report today with a very simple question. The Republic of Crimea, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, is one of the most important regions in Ukraine, and the question of decentralization, the issue of the transfer of authority to local self-government today, really, in connection with annexia, does not cover such a huge part and so many Ukrainians who live there today. I would therefore like to support once again from this rostrum every Ukrainian who is now in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, who believes in our country, which is struggling to return it to Ukraine. Regrettably, those reforms and the upsurge in local self - government today cannot really be carried out in Crimea or in the occupied area of Donetsk and Lugansk. But it is very important for us that the reform that is taking place in Ukraine today after the change in governance, after decommunization, not only by the name or removal of those symbols of totalitarianism that is taking place in Ukraine, but also directly in the governance system. I would like first of all to inform the people's deputies about how the reform went in 2016 and at what stage we are today. Today, there are 366 united territorial communities that have taken responsibility for direct budgetary relations that take on authority and that are now directly changing the quality of governance, infrastructure changes, changes in quality of service, education, health care, and administrative services. And I would like to point out that it is these 366 united territorial communities that are showing the symbols of the changes that are today in Ukraine. And it's thanks to them that we've seen more than 3,000 projects, which in two years -- 2015 and 2016 -- have been implemented directly in these communities. Directly in these communities, not only repairs of local roads or streets, the warming of kindergartens, schools, modernization, the transfer to alternative energy sources, the provision of new quality administrative services, but also the major shift to reforming the education sector, the reforms in the health sector have been initiated directly in the unified communities. And to be honest, I don’t understand why a local government that doesn’t go to a union today practically steals money from its communities. I'll just give you the numbers. Today, the unified territorial communities have budgets that are 7 times larger than before unification. These are the funds that remain in communities that can be used directly in communities for infrastructure, for education, for health care. And today, in two years, those who have not begun this process are practically stealing money from their children into their future. And the main thing is, they're not receiving the state support that the local communities are receiving today. It's a union, actually. I'd like you to look at this slide. Can I go back to the previous slide? It's state aid to communities to build infrastructure. You can see that it was in 2016 that 1, 3, 2 and 9, and 2 billion dollars were directed directly to local self-government. In addition, local budgets received 43.7 billion dollars. Practically in 2017, 9 billion were invested in support of local self-government. I would simply like to turn to the Ukrainians who have not yet touched their own, so to speak, local officials to go together and use such governmental support. And these are the funds that actually build a virtually new management system and a new quality of life directly in place. What I'd like to show you in addition, let's do the next slide. 1383 projects, this was only implemented in 159 communities that were already directly integrated in the 15th year. These are projects that are direct. Well, I'll tell you what, in Odessa we had a meeting, a head came out of the Herson area, and he tells you that 25 years ago, virtually since the collapse, there's been no light in those populated places where, let's say, there's now been a merger. In two years now, the infrastructure of roads is restored, the infrastructure of lighting is restored, and today people are feeling the changes that people are seeing because of projects being implemented. The second question. That we're going to introduce ourselves and that we started implementing in the 16th year. It's a direct reform of education and it's a reform of the education sector that was presented by Lilia Greenevich in terms of the creation of a new Ukrainian school. It has already started in 19 united territorial communities by introducing those basic schools that are already working and being implemented in 12 areas. Directly 62 million dollars were directed to school infrastructure directly in the united territorial communities. In this year, we think that we should go in a coordinated way where there is a school, there should be local roads, there should be a school bus running, and there should be a quality that children should be allowed to compete with their teenagers not only from the district center, but also from Kiev or from a neighbouring European country. Next question. Administrative services. Today, this is the very face of the authority that is waiting on the premises, the very simple, quick, accessible service that can provide not only the centre of administrative services, but also the mayor who, within his jurisdiction, can provide one or more services directly in his population. A very important question is how we today can further develop this service. You know, last week the government, in addition, the Ministry of Justice passed on the registration of marriage directly to the premises. And that's also the decentralization step that everyone's waiting for. This is exactly what local self - government can do today directly, drawing such a service closer to a person. It is very important for us to go to rural areas, in addition to providing administrative services, we want to join the social services that should be available. And such an administrative center should provide not only administrative services, but also social services. Next question. Road infrastructure. That's the most important question. And here I would like to thank the National Deputies for the very serious decision taken regarding the creation of the Foundation, the Road Fund, which has been in operation since 2018. But we clearly understand that today, in order to effectively manage road infrastructure, to develop, to repair, we also need to transfer tools to local self-government. Money, tools, and responsibility. And so I think it's the direct decentralization of the road infrastructure management system, which is part of the success of the territorial communities. I can only tell by the numbers. Today, 49,000 virtually miles [49 000 km] are state highways. But 120,000 kilometers, that's the local infrastructure that we have to virtually restore today. And I would like to address all the deputies who are here in the hall who are concerned about their districts for their Ukrainians who live in communities. And to look at the very important issue of both financing socio-economic development, and the Regional Development Fund, and subsidies to united territorial communities. Let's start rebuilding the infrastructure. Four hundred thousand dollars is practically the cost of a central road that passes through the population. It's enough to fix it, and it's enough to educate it, and it's going to be seen by every community that lives in this neighborhood. These are the kind of funds that will then allow quality services both in emergency medicine and in education. So road infrastructure, I think this year will be the most up to date. 30 billion dollars, which are projected for the road, I think that much of it should go to the local roads. The next question is the planning of the territories. Planning territories, it becomes one of the main factors in the development of territories today. And when we say that today we urgently need to adopt the Land Resources Transfer Act, and that is, let's say, the debt that has been left since 16 years, I think we need to adopt the law that applies and allows us to plan the territory. Why? Because when we give up resources, we have to give a tool to plan the territory, to invest, and to show how we're going to develop a community or something. The next question is land administration. This is what I've already said, this is probably one of the most important tools for today, not just collecting taxes, not just managing these resources to fill the budget, but, above all, the possibility of investing. And here, I think this is a matter that needs to be resolved, taken and given the opportunity to each community not only to plan, but also to make decisions, so to speak, to create an infrastructure project. I would just like to give an example from 2016, how an integrated approach to the development of community infrastructure can be implemented. Dnipropetrov region. 16 united local communities Several directions for the use of local and state budgets are coordinated. And if we look at how subsidies were directed to social infrastructure, we'll see that, directly, 102 million dollars were directed at infrastructure development, 225 million -- education, health care, and 630 million -- attention! – from the district and local budgets, plus 11.3 – to the Regional Development Fund. Nearly 1 billion dollars was spent from various budgets to boost the infrastructure. This is a question to show exactly the concentration of resources in those growth points that Ukraine has today. From there, the economy is growing, from there is small and medium-sized business, from there there is an increase in income for both the local and the state budget. And so I think right next year, we're going to focus on both the local authorities and the central executive authorities, in order to concentrate projects, the resources right at the point of growth, where there are responsibilities, where there are active people, and where there are leaders of change in Ukraine. In addition, I would like to give an example of the Solonian United Territorial Society, which has taken very simple steps that do not require very much money, this is virtually five years of planning. And when the community adopts its development strategy, when it sees state support, when it sees an increase of 7 times the local budget, it can specifically plan its spending first on social infrastructure, on cultural infrastructure, on sports, on infrastructure that directly applies to administrative services or on creation, or on improving virtually those FAPs and those centres that are in place. So I think this is the kind of planning that will allow it to plan not only a short-term but also a medium-term perspective on local self-government and the infrastructure of the united territorial communities. That's why the plans. I have not yet mentioned the health sector. This is a very important year in the direction of increasing the quality of health care. Today, you know, and a lot of majors, and I've been approached, have started to form hospital districts. This is the basic service that a person seeks. This is the very service that practically affects not only the quality but also the life of every Ukrainian. And today, it is very important for us to understand clearly that today this reform should bring people closer to service, strengthen their quality, and, directly, make sure that the money goes to the person, to the doctor to whom it refers. I would like to point out that the government has made an unprecedented decision. Today, 40 percent of medical funding goes to the primary level. This means that the country decides to finance disease prevention, not just treatment or surgery. And I think right this year we need to show how today, when we're talking about the primary link, we can get to the secondary link in time to warn the very great threat to the lives of Ukrainians today, it's cardiovascular disease. And I think directly with the people's deputies we can do it at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u5	Mr. Hennaday's asking for three minutes, I don't think anyone here will object to the important information about local self-government. Please, three minutes, Mr. Hennaday.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u6	And that is why I would like to actively help us today to implement exactly the reforms that I was talking about: education, health care, administrative services, road infrastructure, land planning and direct transfer of land resources on the ground. I'd like to address our distinguished colleagues from this rostrum today and ask for the support of the next package of bills that we're looking forward to in the next plenary week in the second reading room. These are directly laws that enable, first and foremost, voluntary integration of communities into existing ones. This is a simple step to strengthen their ability, capabilities and, above all, to enable the creation of additional infrastructure today is Law 4772 and Law 4773. Second Law 5520, I understand that there have been many, many initiatives, various questions, so to speak, but this law is also very much needed in order to allow the communities that have already made this decision to unite today. But they today do not have the legal capacity to do so when they are in adjacent areas. And that's also what I think is one of the issues of decommunization. Why? Because it is a question of what makes it possible today to restore the historical and practical memory of these communities. Because it was in the Soviet Ukraine that the districts were shared by an official in Kiev, who used a pencil to divide strong communities in order to have a greater influence on them by dividing them. Today, such communities need to be able to reestablish their historical memory and enable them to unite. The following is Law 4742 and Law 4110. This is about the possibility of increasing the powers of old age. This is the person who is chosen today, who assumes responsibility, and who should be able to fulfill his duties to his community. The next question is, it's very important, it's Law 2489. This is a law that applies to the service of local authorities. Since last year, we have started reforming the public service, and since May 1, 2015, we have practically introduced the law. He's working, he's giving us a competitive selection today, a selection of competences, a payday. And also this, we think, should go to local self-government. Thus, this law provides an additional opportunity to strengthen the local self - government authorities. I think that by directly adopting these laws, we're going to talk about sectoral laws that directly affect the lives of communities that enhance the quality of services that approach people's services and allow them to see the face of power directly in places that they should be: close, responsible and fully supported by local communities. So, ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to welcome you to the Day of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. We do not forget our region, which, unfortunately, today has been deprived of the reforms that are being implemented in Ukraine. And to support every Ukrainian who now chooses virtually the unity and independence of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u7	Thank you, Hennady Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, there will be questions for the government. I remind you, questions will not be from factions and groups, but from national MPs by writing. Therefore, anyone who wishes to ask questions to the representatives of our government is asked to prepare for the recording. Dear colleagues, are you ready? Please record a question to the government. It's not the factions, it's the MPs who get the chance to add the word to no one. Please record. Nechayev Alexander Igorovich gives Igor Shurma the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u8	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers. First of all, the Opposition Block is very grateful to you for having finally started the nine-month term of office of Health Minister. I hope that when you discuss this candidate, you will vote. There is a great request to publish in the "Governmental Courier" the list of cabinet members who support this candidature. Question number one: Please tell me -- very short -- when are you going to run for the Supreme Council for the Ministry of Health? Question number two: Who will be personally responsible for the fact that all tenders and international purchases were cancelled in 2016? No drug was purchased that was to be purchased. Who will be responsible for the death of those who die today because of the lack of drugs and waste materials? Please answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u9	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Shurma, I want to say that the government has a clear agenda for action and reform. We need to understand that when we reform the Ministry of Health, not as an organization, but as a system of human health, it brings about changes that not everyone likes. Second, with regard to the candidature that you spoke about in the government, I want to make it clear that Ulyana Suprun, who is performing duties, works with the public, she's open to discussion, she's open to recognition of the strengths and weaknesses, and she's ready to change today's reform, she's an honest person who's doing the duties of minister. And the third and the third and the third, Mr. Shurma. It's about openness. about the openness of the tenders. The best tender that goes through when it goes through in a transparent, open and public way. That's what we've been struggling with for 25 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u11	Thank you. You finished your answer, didn't you? I give the floor to Chumaku Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u12	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy of Soloi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u13	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Hutzulščina, and Poet I have a question before, again, the Minister of Health. I'm sorry, I have a question for Mrs. Ulyana Suprun's Minister of Health. I represent the mountain district, the highest mountain in Ukraine, sent more than 10 calls, held 5 joint meetings for the participation of the government, and prepared and sent an appropriate address to the Ministry of Health to predict in the territory of Ivano-Frankishte the only high-rise hospital district with a centre in Kosovo. However, according to my information, the Ministry of Health has made some adjustments to the possible plan submitted by the district government. Madam Minister, I ask you very carefully to address this issue, to take into account the specifics of the mountain population and to preserve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u14	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u15	And keep a high-rise hospital district with a center in Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u16	I'd like to ask Mr. Rosenck, Vice Prime Minister, to comment, and to receive an order accordingly to take the matter under control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u17	Dear Mr. Jury, indeed, all the reforms that are under way today, including in the health system, have one goal: to make services, including social, medical, more quality, and more accessible to everyone. The aim of the reform is not to cut, trim, close, and so forth. The goal of reform is to bring the service closer to everyone. Of course, the highlands of the French region are specific. Of course, without public participation, without the participation of the heads of district administrations, no movement that contradicts logic, well, let's say, the local specification, I'm sure it won't be done. So all the proposals will be taken into account. And we hope that we will find the best way to carry out reforms, so once again, with only one goal in mind: reforms are not made for reform, not for the sake of placing a branch and declaring ourselves a major reformer, and the reform in this country is being carried out by the government for human beings. And the sense of reform, the sense that life in the country is changing for the better, should also be the result of these reforms.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u18	Thank you. I just want to point out that the highlands have their own specificities in both Frankish and Lviv, and Chernivsky, and Zakarpat. And we had a recent meeting with the heads of the district councils, and we were preparing proposals for a joint aid programme for those regions, taking into account this specificity of the mountain areas. I think it's a joint task for both Parliament and the government. Maybe we'll make some working group of parliamentarians together, and you'll advise who's going to be from the government, so that we can develop, taking into account the specifics, both in aid and in tourism recreation, and in animal development aid, and in infrastructure in those regions, and especially in the concept of Europe Carpathian, and investment. Because these regions, at the same time, are incredibly investment-attractive at the expense of tourism. We need to do the same in the Alps, when we work with our neighbors to make one program, we need to develop an infrastructure to make these regions of the grant regions a region that will fill the budget, where our citizens will live in dignity and dignity, and create jobs there. Please, Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u19	I would like to thank the National Deputy, Mr. Yuri Solloway. This is a very important question. The other one. What the Head of the Supreme Council has proposed and what Vice-Prime Minister Rosenko has said can say about the principle of government consent on the basis of a committee of the Supreme Council of Representatives from factions to form a problem into a real plan of action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u20	Thank you. At the time of the performance, the name of the national deputy of Shurma was named. One minute to reply. Get ready, Overwhelming. Turn on Storm, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u21	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm addressing Mr. Stepan Kubov. No one questions the honesty and integrity of a candidate for the position of Minister Suprun. If you support her, there are no questions, please put her in the hall. Let the people vote, let the MPs vote. Let them support or comment, but enter the hall. There is no government in the world that has been working for nine months without the head of the Ministry of Health. That's the first one. And the others. Please do not lie to people about the concept of developing a national health system. You have been promoted to reform the financing of health - care facilities. This is not a systematic approach to reform. Second, it is public health reform. It's like an ingredient. These are, you know, little steps. In order not to be influenced by unprofessional decisions and conclusions, please make a point. And I'm asking you when you're going to put a candidate into the voting room.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u22	Thank you. So the question is asked by Irina Igorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u23	Please pass the word to Simeon Semenchenk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u24	Thank you. I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine. But in his absence, please respond to the First Vice Prime Minister. In early January, material was published in the media for the investigation of the Ukrainian Security Service, as set out in the decision of the North Danish City Court. It makes clear that from the money received from the acquisition of anthracy in the occupied territories by the State company Centrenergo, about 47 per cent of taxes on the amount of so-called taxes go to the financing of terrorists of the so-called LNR and it is concluded that these funds are further channelled towards the payment of salaries to members of terrorist factions, the purchase of ammunition and forms, these are official data. Over 100,000 permits were issued by the Security Service for trade with the occupied territories. What is the total budget of the State of Ukraine for terrorist financing?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u25	I want to ask the honourable MP a provocative question: Not a penny goes. And two, and two, I want to say, and two, I want to say. Everything that's going on to provide the energy sector is going according to the laws of Ukraine that, when I was in this room and now we've adopted with you. Also, separate normative documents related to the Ukrainian Security Service procedure and control are carried out in accordance with the Ukrainian Security Service’s activities and activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u26	Musei Oleg Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u27	Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Sokalstina, Red Town. I have a question before and a request even to Mr. Gennady Zubka, Vice Prime Minister, in the context that has already been asked about the formation of hospital districts. Of course, the formation of hospital districts is absolutely necessary and a good thing. And it needs to be done. Of course, the goal is administrative-territorial reform, everyone understands that, and the formation of circuits. So I've been asked as a minimum of five areas: Lvivsky, Ivano-Frankovsky, Odessa, Volinsky -- about the incomprehensibility and opacity, and the removal of local authorities and major national deputies from this process. I understand that you are, and we are with you in the parliamentary-presidential Republic. I'm asking you to give me an assignment and to involve the authorities of local self-governance and the National Majority Deputies in this group that will ultimately make decisions. So that this is not an administrative decision of the President's Administration and an exclusive government. I'm asking you very much to provide a possibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u28	You're done, aren't you? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u29	I would like to give a brief answer to all the national MPs. Today, the direct participation of the national MPs, especially those who work in the districts today, is very important, directly in the preparation of all decisions related to the reform of local self - government. Directly at all levels today, district deputies are involved alongside the district government, which are working on those proposals that primarily apply to the method of making forward-looking plans. Also, according to the methodology adopted by the Ministry of Health and submitted to the government for the formation of hospital districts and all other matters. And now we've prepared a law that applies to the principles of the administrative system. Unfortunately, the new law on the administrative and territorial system can only be adopted once changes to the Constitution have been adopted. But today absolutely, the thing that concerns the direct participation of the national MPs, not only participation at the regional level of preparation of both the forward-looking plans and the proposals for the hospital districts, but also those that arise, as said by Mr. Yuri Solovay, as said by Maksim Juryovich Burbak, as said by Vladislav Sevrukov in the area of Cherniewec, or our national deputies who came up today in the region of Chernigiv, who are totally involved in the proposal as people who live in this area who understand the characteristics of this area, not only the mountainous areas but all others. Well, I'd like to take this opportunity to welcome Mustafa-Aga Jemiliev, Mr. Refat Chubarov, to the Day of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u30	Thank you. Buhariev Vladislav conveys the word Alexandra Kugel. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u31	Stepan Ivanovich, first of all, I want to personally thank you for your principled position on the preservation of the space sector. I understand you're taking a lot of steps. But the 17th year began with the fact that there was no renewed general designer, Mr. Degtyarov and the Southmenash and the South Army have no government military orders in breach of legislation. I am very much asking that the government make a decision and give the space industry the opportunity to work. And the second. I'd like to ask you if you've had any calculations of the consequences of what's being done with the business now, with the small and medium-sized business that's shutting down. waiting for 300,000 small businesses. How are you going to create jobs and restore democracy in Ukraine by creating small and medium-sized businesses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u32	Dear Alexander Volodymyrna, these are absolutely two right questions that society expects to answer. Thesis one. Those consultations that we held with you and the relevant meetings on human resources policy are answered by what the government considers to be a priority in its work. And this sector should be headed by professionals who should be elected to an open competition under an active law. And we're what I promised you at the meeting, you're witnessing a process that's absolutely one step at a time moving faster. The fact that we want to close matters quickly is certainly related to the end of December and January and many festival days. The Prime Minister of Ukraine has accordingly set before me and the task of putting this issue to the end. It's about small and medium-sized business. I want to give the word to Andrew Rey, who answered that question, but I want to say the following. The process that is taking place today in the market provides a practical response to the efficient activities of the enterprise and species that today pose the challenge of using a transparent operating scheme. Thank you. Please, Andrew Reva.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u33	Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u34	Dear Alexander Volodymyr! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with Ukraine’s adopted law, we have, in fact, those entrepreneurs who do not do business since January 1st are obliged to pay the only social contribution. Accordingly, those who did not do business, paid no taxes, and had no income, today they were just being busy. It was a similar process before, in the 1990s, people had a workbook, and it was formally numbered as working and not actually working. And if in the 1990s, in the early 2000s, we solved that question by introducing a personalized assessment of contributions to the Pension Fund, and keeping a workbook on production became simply uncomfortable because it made no sense. Similarly today, when entrepreneurs were offered or paid contributions, or closed down, those who did not actually carry out such activities were shut down. We've got worse statistics. Yes, now more and more people have actually become. Not only did they actually, but they also became legally unoccupied. But in terms of interests and country, nothing has changed in principle. As far as the job creationist is concerned. Jobs are not created by the State. The state creates conditions for job creation, and people do entrepreneurial work. And our task with you is to create conditions so that they can actually do their entrepreneurial work, not on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, Medunica Oleg Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u36	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, before asking a question to the government, I would like to ask you today, dear colleagues, I would like to remind you today that today we have a very tragic day, today, two years have passed since the collapse of the new Donetsk Airport terminal and actually ended the heroic 242-day defence of the Donetsk Airport. I'd like us all to stand up for a minute and remember all the boys who heroically protected him and those who died in defense of the Donetsk airport.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u37	Thank you. Turn on the microphone for the Medusa question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u38	Stepan Ivanovich, when you spoke today about the growth that really took place last year, you also touched on the growth that took place in the engine sector. Unfortunately, we have such a growth in some businesses in Ukraine, and some do not. In particular, at the Sumerian Civil Engineering Association, which, despite winning a tender for the reconstruction of the gas transport system, the tender was cancelled, now out of work, and 8,000 people are out of work. I urge you to have the government assemble the leading machinery companies in Ukraine as soon as possible, gather those who need this machine-building product, Energoat, GTS, Ukrainian defense. And we did everything we could to make sure that Ukrainian machinery companies were loaded with domestic orders, not just defenses. Because that's what the Ukrainians are waiting for right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u39	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u40	In order for the government to finally start developing and implementing an importation program. Put them all at one table: those who consume machine products, those who produce them -- and give people a job, the work that we now have, unfortunately, very often goes abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u41	Please, Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u42	This is a very good question, and the report made it clear that the development of the domestic industry is a priority. And a number of principles were stated, based on which analysis and facts the decision was made accordingly. The Prime Minister of Ukraine held a working meeting a few days ago with vice-premiers and ministers who have a bearing on the principles of industrial engineering as a priority for 2017. The other one. There is a clear mandate given to me personally as First Vice Prime Minister, Minister of Economics for the definition of an appropriate programme. And the third position. It is planned to hold a meeting of the National Industrial Development Committee, which will clearly define the operational programme for industrial activities for 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u43	Thank you. Teras’s flint, conveys the word to Oleg Laishko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u44	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for the government. Did you know that today people are getting space payments that are totally inoperable for heating? Here you guaranteed that every Ukrainian family would not pay more than 15 percent of the total income for the station. Have you seen these payments, I'm asking you. Did you know that four, five, seven thousand bracelets are coming today? I’m not saying that there’s a way for the family to support their hope and children. In this regard, I demand that the government support our initiatives, bring the social standard of gas consumption back to 1,200 cubic metres for the heating season. We're asking the government to review the tariffs on utilities and gas prices in part of their decline, because people don't have the capacity to pay them. We're asking the government to review the standards that you've artificially adopted, and so at least two million Ukrainians have been cut off from the ability to receive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u45	Dear Oleg Valeriovich! Today, 7 million 100,000 households out of 15 million are receiving a housing grant, a housing grant. And we really look at the payments that people get. So 7 million 100,000 households that are now receiving subsidies, none of them receive similar space payments. I mean, all those people who get into housing subsidies, they don't get these amazing bills. That's the first one. With regard to those who receive such amazing bills. Most of the time, and we've analyzed this situation, it's in the city of Kiev. If, on average, about 50 percent of households use subsidies in Ukraine, the city of Kiev uses only 20 percent of households for some objective reasons, well, income levels are slightly higher, and so these are the cases that you are talking about. Besides that. By the way, yesterday in the media, there were quite an impressive situation with 7 or more thousand payments. As you remember, there's a house there that still has a private firm that doesn't allow Kievenergo representatives to see how they burn and why they're so high on the counter. I mean, it's impressive, and we have to check that actually citizens pay not only for their own heating in their homes, but also for this commercial firm. And, unfortunately, such cases do take place. Each of them is addressed by our government officials, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Kyiv administration, Kievergo, and all other interested structures. That's why there are these cases. Each of them is the subject of real consideration. And we will always react harshly to such facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u46	Thank you. Green Igor Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u47	Please pass the word to the Pigeon. Dove, once again, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u48	Dove, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u49	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear Stepan Ivanovich, I will be addressing you on the next day on a situation that is taking place at state-owned enterprises, especially at Ukkrimtransamak. Despite the fact that, in carrying out the Prime Minister's mandate to remove and liberate Mr. Polozov's former head of business from the Russian Federation's aggressor country, he continues to serve as deputy director on general business issues and proves, on behalf of his owners in the Kremlin, an enterprise for bankruptcy. This business since December 23 is no longer in operation. The Ministry of Economic Development and Trade sees this situation with its eyes wide closed. There has been a competition to be the director of this company, but no steps have been taken with regard to the appointment of the company’s director and the establishment of the company.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u50	Please, 30 seconds. I'll give it to
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u51	Please tell me what else is going to happen at this company, besides when the Russian Federation is putting up nearly $12 million in foam there, in order for the government and the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade to take a firm Ukrainian position on this enterprise? Perhaps we, as national deputies, can help you to bring the business in order? We're ready to do this and we're ready to do whatever we can to get the government to take the pro-Ukrainian position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u52	Dear National Deputy Mr. Doveb, dear colleague, I have held a Ukrainian position my entire life and will take place, and in the worst times, the definition of the human position I have taken is the first. Second, with regard to the situation in Toliata, you know, sometimes in life, I advise you personally not to change the concept of personal and public. Regarding the competition, according to the Ukrainian Cabinet Order of 03.09.2008, the three sevens were accepted, and on 05.09.2016 a competition was announced for the leadership of the Ukkrimtransamaku. 32 people took part in the competition. 32 men listen and choose the strongest one, it takes time. And what I'm saying is, the winner of the competition was 8 plus 8, where he's taking eight international experts and eight government representatives. Paul Shebest's duly appointed head of the Ukrimtransamaku. In order to accelerate this decision, there is a procedure that the Ministry of Economics has asked for to speed up the process of allowing and selecting, considering that this person is not and has not worked in Ukraine. And to that effect, according to the Cabinet of Ministers' position, a candidate has been submitted to the Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers for approval of the next meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u53	Thank you. Please, Galchenko Andry Volodymyrovich. Debtenko's got a word for it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u54	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where government officials have been talking about some real GDP growth. In fact, however, it can be noted that Ukraine’s GDP for 2017 has not even reached its 2013 level. Exports dropped from 70 billion to 50 billion, processing down from 20 percent of the alcohol to 12 percent. Now for the question. The government is constantly living in politics: getting a new loan to reach the IMF's next tranche. Now, in 2017, according to the Appendix 2 of the State Budget, namely its deficit, you're taking 190 billion -- you're returning 129 billion -- you're living in debt. Over 120 billion dollars a year you pay off the state's externals.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u55	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u56	The restructuring, which took place in the 15th year, is aimed at paying off government derivatives, this is the part of the gross domestic product that is planned to grow. How do we get growth when part of GDP is going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u57	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u58	The honourable national deputies, these facts and figures that we presented at the meeting today, carry the objective and real work that has been put together by the government, parliament, and the President. By 2013, the situation you are talking about cost the state and people 25 billion lost gold coins. The situation that is today has stabilized and has every reason to form and continue to make changes that will allow the economy to rise and, most importantly, the level of human life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u59	Thank you. Colleagues and last question. Sevrukov Vladislav Volodymyrovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u60	Please pass the word to Oleg Barney.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u61	Christ Baptizes. The feat of the defenders of Donetsk and Lugansk Airport was a model of virtue, military virtue, and should set an example for all of us. I am addressing Mr. Igor Nasalik, Minister of Energy. The Human Resources Management announced on December 8th a tender to prepare a technical and technical basis for 155 million dollars to build a GES stunt on the Dniester at the expense of international investors. In addition to the fact that, until now, there are no adequate conclusions from environmental authorities, as well as government, municipal and public, tendering data is a blow to 155 million, because if there is no such agreement, no one will allow the building of the stunt GES. We ask that these funds be set aside better to restore the work and rebuild the small GES on the rivers of the same Dniestrów swimming pool or.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u62	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. In the Jordan River! And I have to tell you, the Ukorgroenergo is financed exclusively by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank. So I'm leading you to your knowledge and to the knowledge of all the national MPs: no Ukrhydroenergo projects will be implemented until a complete environmental check is carried out, environmental analysis by these banks. and only after these tests can the cost be allocated to European construction structures, and there is no other option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u63	Thank you. Since there's been a short talk, colleagues, I'll explain the logic. So the next Jolobecki is still coming, then (I know), then asked for a representation of Crimean Tatars, today their day, 1 minute Chubarov. And then we end up with an hour, and then we end up with an hour of questions to the government. After that, the session will be closed. And I'm asking all my fellow national deputies to come into the hall, all of them in the towers. Please invite the deputies into the hall, in five minutes the session will be closed, and I ask all the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. So, Rosenblatt, please turn on the microphone for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u64	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. First of all, I want to express my gratitude to Stepan Ivanovich Kubev for receiving December grants from agrocomplex companies yesterday. It was a blocked question, so thank you very much, Stepan Ivanovich. But I have another question about events, terrible events in Polissa on the issue of amber mining. You know, the Old Village of the Rokitni district, on Sundays in Olesia, where automatic weapons and grenades are used. And the question stands for today’s political will. I want to address the leaders of our factions, Andry Volodymyrovich, first of all, to you, and I want to address the government. Are we not able to find this political will today and finally resolve this issue once and for all. How much more of our lives must be lost, how much more of our forest fund must be lost, and the budget must be lost, so that we can finally understand that amber belongs to the people of Ukraine, not just the criminal structures that are robbing our country today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Stepanovich Ivanovich, you will not. It's a performance. And I invite you to my word, I give you one minute, Chubarov. And it'll probably be better than the rostrum, today's Crimean Autonomy Day. And I invite you to make a statement, one minute of Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u66	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, members of the government! Thank you to the members of the government of Ukraine for mentioning the Day of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. 26 years ago, on this very day, January 20, a nationwide referendum was held on the restoration of Crimea’s autonomy, which was eliminated in 1945 in connection with the deportation of the Crimean Tatar people. But I would also like to remind you that this referendum took place at the very beginning of the mass return of Crimean Tatars to their homeland, was still the Soviet Union and was the Communist regime. Moscow was very concerned about the need to restore Crimean Tatar autonomy in connection with the return of the deported Crimean Tatar people to their land. In addition, Moscow, in an effort to stop the struggle of the Ukrainians to rebuild an independent state, wanted to have a powerful weight to keep Ukraine in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u67	Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u68	I'm done. The Crimean Tatars then demanded that the referendum take place after the entire nation returned from exile. But Moscow was in such a hurry, it needed such a pressure tool on Ukraine that Ukraine did not become independent. So from the occasion of Autonomy Day, we need to take appropriate lessons from the past. So again, I call upon the President of Ukraine and the Government of Ukraine to convene a constitutional commission as soon as possible to start work to amend chapter X of the Constitution of Ukraine, "Autonomous Republic of Crimea." We are to transform the Autonomous Republic of Crimea into the Crimean Autonomous Republic as an integral part of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the "hour of questions to the government" is over. But I'm asking the government to stay with us at the closing session. I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall and take jobs. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite all the deputies to the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u70	Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine are invited to the floor by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andri Parubai. Andrei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! Our apparatus has prepared a detailed report on this session, where all the statistics, where the number of laws is complete. I'm not going to repeat it, everyone has it, and it's in free access. I would like to say a few words to conclude by summarizing this session, as the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine ends today. First of all, I would like to thank all the national deputies for their work during this session. It was a very difficult but very responsible time for Ukraine. I would also like to thank the representatives of the government, who are today, for the cooperation and concerted work between Parliament and the government. During this session for five months of work, we passed 106 laws in general, 16 of them ratifications, and 60 bills were adopted in the first reading. But it's just statistics. We have been able to go through reforms in many areas. The laws on energy and utilities reform were extremely important. We continued the judicial reform, and the Supreme Council of Justice Act became a symbol of our determination to reform the judicial system. We've adopted the budget, we've submitted it to Parliament in time, we've gone through every step of the way. And we were able to share the budget, the budget of the warring country. And it is very important, colleagues, to remember what I said in my opening statement. We are the Parliament of a warring country. And we need to keep that in mind by discussing and making decisions each time in this room. We have a huge responsibility to our boys on the fore that protects the peace and tranquillity of our country every day and night. During this session, we were able to protect the Ukrainian language with radio quotas for the Ukrainian song. We were able to protect the Ukrainian book. But most importantly, I think we did not allow the Ukrainian Parliament to be destabilized or allow the Ukrainian state to be destabilized. Because I am convinced that in this war that Putin is waging against us, no less money than on the front is being thrown into destabilizing the situation from the inside. And here we are this year, recalling a century-old history, and on January 22 we're going to remember 1917-1918, when, to a large extent, we lost statehood not because there was more military power, not because of the economy, but because unfortunately, then the leaders of the state, these people are remarkable, these people with the great letter, and Vinniczenko, and Gruszewski, and Petlura, and Krapadsky, and Bolbochan, but there was no understanding among themselves. And that's why the state was lost. And it's not just symbolism, it's not just formality. Having lost the state, it led to Holodomor, when millions of Ukrainians were killed and there was no one to protect them. And that is why the word responsibility is crucial to our Parliament, to our government and to all MPs. And what we didn't allow to provoke opposition and destabilisation was the credit of everyone, my colleague. Anyone who is first of all a state party and then a member of a political party. We've done a lot. But we still have a very important and big task ahead of us. The tasks to lead to Ukrainian victory are to liberate Ukrainian lands from the Russian occupation. We're working, we're winning! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-20-m0.u72	Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin its work on Tuesday, February 7, 2017. Thank you all for your fruitful work. I declare the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the eighth call closed. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Glory to Ukraine!
