ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u1	Good morning, respectable company! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Leave the towers, come into the hall. Please take up your jobs and prepare for registration. Are you guys ready? I'd like you to sign up. [[10:03:46]] 326 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. I would like to welcome all fellow Members of Parliament and all Ukrainians with the bright festival of the Annunciation. [[Applause]] I want more good news, like yesterday, that our friends gave us with the no-car decision. Colleagues! Also today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Vadim Igorovich Denisenko. Welcome to our friend's birthday party. [[Applause]] Members of the government, led by Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman, are taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome the Prime Minister. [[Applause]] Today we have a traditional hour of questions to the government. In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, from 10 to 11, we are going through an hour of questions to the Government. Today we will have two performances, 30 minutes to speak on behalf of Foreign Minister Pavel Anatoliyovich Klimkin, as well as the head of the State Migration Service of Ukraine, Maksim Yuriovich Sokoluk, and then half an hour of questions. So we can start. And I invite you to speak to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Ukraine of Paul Anatolyovich Klimkin. Paul Anatolyovich. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to all those who have made their efforts to implement all the reforms necessary to achieve yesterday's decision. I mean absolutely everyone, but also, as I'm in this room, I want to thank all the people's deputies for their personal involvement in making the necessary decisions. Yesterday, of course, it was a predictable, but nevertheless emotional decision, an emotional decision for you, of course, an emotional decision for me. 521 votes for is a great result because we were supported by all of Europe's friends and all of Ukraine's friends. So this decision for us, for Europe, is common to us. A few moments I'd like to share right over here from this rostrum. First, the next step is the decision of the ambassadors, permanent representatives of the member states of the European Union, who formally complete the process, to dismiss the decision of the EU Council, then the decision will be signed by representatives of the Maltese vote and, of course, by the President of the European Parliament, published and effective. The visa-free regime will work for 30 countries, 26 European Union countries. You know, for Britain and Ireland, there are separate visa practices, separate visa procedures, but also four European countries that actually joined the Schengen are Norway, Switzerland, Iceland and Liechtenstein. I want to stress again, and it's very important that the visa-free regime will work for the owners of biometric passports themselves. This will be a visa-free mode for short-term trips. And it is very important for us to be responsible for this. I also want to say that it is very important to use this rostrum that the new European Union regulation, which aims to increase security, has been in operation since today. This means that it works not only for Ukrainian citizens, not only for EU citizens, but for all. This means that there may be additional checks, targeted tests are compared to the Schengen Register, with national registers. So if you cross the border for a minute, don’t worry, this has nothing to do with the introduction of a visa-free regime or other procedures. So once again, I congratulate everyone, but, nevertheless, we have many tasks to do, many tasks to work with the Agency for the Safety of the European Union's Borders, with the newly created Office of the Prosecutor's Office of the European Union, and with the member countries we now have to go through this stage and start a real visa-free regime. Thank you. If there are further questions, I am ready to answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u3	Thank you. The report invites the head of the National Migration Service of Ukraine, Maksim Yuriovich Sokoluk. Maxim Yuriovich. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u4	Honorable citizens, honourable chairman, honourable deputies! The Migration Service is responsible for a very important part of the visa liberalisation process. We were responsible for one of the most important points of this plan -- at the beginning of the issuance of biometric papers, we started publishing in January 2015. According to statistics on the ninth morning of this day, 3 million, 25,000, 129 citizens have received biometric documents to go abroad. I was a representative of Ukraine in. I was just loading the first Ukrainian certificate, and I took off instead of taking a vacation at a holiday in Montreal, loading a Ukrainian certificate to create a chain of trust in Ukrainian passports. Today, Ukrainian passports for going abroad are biometric, recognized by the whole world. All of our migration units are equipped with appropriate equipment. In addition to the process of issuing documents, we have joined the administrative services centres, which are now running at 18, for example, in Kiev we are counting to 1 May, that ten more KNAPs of Kiev will join the process. Every day more than ten citizens of thousands of Ukrainians receive new biometric passports to go abroad, and in some days they exceed 12,000. The process is ongoing. We see demand rising. This is also related to May Day celebrations, summer vacations. And we're ready for that. I would also like to remind Ukrainian citizens that a visa-free regime is the right to travel to the countries of the European Union for a tourist purpose or other purpose, but it is not the right to stay for more than 90 days, and it does not allow employment. I thank the MPs for their very important support for the laws that were necessary to begin this process. [[Applause]] Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u5	We have very brief ministerial reports today. I'm asking you to record a question to the government right now. I would like to remind you that the question is not from the factions but from the people’s deputies, and that is why those who sign up will have the word. And if the faction can't write down, it won't mean that we have to give the word beyond that. I'm asking everyone to prepare for the recording, who would like to ask a question to the government. And I'd like you to record it. Please. Sissyenko Irina Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u6	Good morning, everyone, good morning to the Ministry of Health, Prime Minister of Ukraine! Yesterday, Parliament passed a very important health law, and we are changing the principles of the funding system. But I am addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine one more time. As long as this law is in place, this can be real in 2018, this year 2017, we lose a huge number of health workers working in state and municipal hospitals. I would like to point out once again that there is an urgent need to make changes and increase the state budget for the pay-for-work fund for health workers. What you've said several times this year is that medical salaries have increased by 30 percent is not real. I'm asking you very much to change the situation, make changes, and situation 3,200 should really be useful for medical workers, not a comparison as it is right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u7	Good day, Reverend Head of the Supreme Council! Thank you for your question, noble national MP of Ukraine. We discussed this issue with you during the meeting and the ministry, and with the committee at the meeting that I was conducting health reform. I want everyone to hear me again. Colleagues, the fact that we doubled the minimum wage was a step towards combating poverty. And that was an important task that we did. I was speaking and stressing that the doctors were given an increase in wages of up to 30 percent depending on the position that the doctor was in. And the categories that the doctor has. Of course, we need to increase our health - care wages, but we are out of the real potential of the state budget. That's why the Ministry of Finance is analyzing today the real state of affairs in medical institutions throughout the country, and the issue of paying wages is the issue of numbers, not slogans. So we're going to see exactly where the problems are in the section of each area. If there are such problems, we will fix them – and this is our task. So I would ask that the mines precede you, based on the figures that we will receive, including from the financial authorities of the district government, and that we will understand clearly the real state of affairs in the country’s health institutions. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u8	Thank you. Please, Rizanenko Pavel Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u9	Good morning, dear colleagues. Good morning, representatives of a colleague of the Cabinet of Ministers. I address the Cabinet of Ministers and you, Your Honor, Mr. Groissman. I'm acting as deputy to the Special Oversight Commission on privatization issues from our commission. We've been in charge of privatization for three years on this committee. Unfortunately, privatization is not taking place, but the privatization of management is taking place in all authorities. In this case, our commission was investigating the privatization of the management of the T.O.M.C., where the state has a controlling shareholding. There's no secret to anyone that's been in the state since 2012, despite the fact that the control package was put there by Mr. Firtasch, the so-called Mr. Sivak, who worked on one of his businesses. Looking at Maidan, and despite the fact that he was given a suspicion last year about the theft of 500 million dollars, of all media outlets, Mr. Sivak is still in office. Moreover, last December he was reappointed, and his contract was extended. And even after the extension, he's trying to make a deal about making this deal, about establishing this T.O.S. Real, despite the fact that the D.A. is trying to cancel it legally.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that according to the staff policy system, which is also being implemented in the government, the Ministry of Economics and the State Property Fund, there is a procedure for the announcement of the competition and the public holding of the competition. And at the same time, the competition that was running late for "which doesn't happen," we're assigning an executive responsibility for a period of change. I, along with talking to you, have a proposal to go back to that question, to make more public candidates who walk and are posted on the site during the competition, and then to meet with the State Property Fund for the appointment. Third. There are two suggestions. There are personnel assigned by the State Property Fund to the enterprises it manages. And there are companies run by the Ministry. We have about three and a half thousand companies like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u11	Wojciekhov Svetlana Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u12	Mr. Head, allow me! Let me just say one more word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u13	Please. I'll give you my word. It's Prime Minister Groissman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u14	Thank you very much, fellow national MPs. I'd like to draw attention to that. and agree with the national deputy Rizanenko. The state of affairs in the field of sales, public sales and competitive sales of state-owned companies, which have proved their absolute inefficiency and is a corrupt watchbook, I think it needs special attention, including the Ukrainian Parliament. I have repeatedly talked about this, and I emphasize that I am not satisfied with the work of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. I believe that in the last year they have done nothing to effectively start the privatization process in the country, and I stress once again, the sale of state property that is inefficiently managed and which is a corrupt watchtower, including those assigned to these enterprises. The Government of Ukraine, as Prime Minister myself, I stress that we need to change legislation in the area of privatization this year to make privatization competitive. We're about to come out with this proposal to the Ukrainian Parliament and we want to work with you on a proper bill that will allow a large-scale process of investing in our country's economy to ensure sustained economic growth. That is why this issue will be very important in Parliament’s deliberations. With regard to this enterprise, the government is helping the National Anti-Corruption Bureau to investigate the crimes you said today. And I deeply believe that in the near future, this issue will be a legal point where those responsible for the equipment will be held accountable and will be punished for what they have done in relation to state property. I invite all of you to cooperate, Your Honor, on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u15	Please, Svetlana Vojciekhovska, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u16	Good morning, Reverend Prime Minister, distinguished members of the government. I have a question for the Minister of Social Policy, Reva Andrija Alexiyovich. Andrey Alexiyovich, the interfractional association of Equal Opportunities, and directly I have addressed the Prime Minister personally and to you about such a disgraceful phenomenon that exists in Ukraine, it is a ban on women's professions, 458 such are bans for today and they are in agriculture, economy and so on. We appealed to the Ministry of Health and there is support for us in this regard. I'd like to know what the Ministry of Social Policy is doing in this direction to eliminate the list of these prohibited professions? Next question to Justice Minister Peter Dmitrovich. We heard the head of NAZK here on Wednesday, and I know that the government prepared changes to the NAZK Act. Please tell me what stage these changes are at and when you have them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u17	Thank you. Please, Mr. Reva first and then Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u18	Thank you for asking. I mean, it's a very important and serious problem. The only thing I want to say is that, as far as I'm concerned, equality of opportunity and equality of rights does not mean equality. Provided that if, for example, someone lifts a stick up to 200 kilograms [200 kg], it is not necessarily necessary to be equal to a woman to lift 200 kilograms [200 kg]. But the question you're talking about really needs a legislative settlement first, because the legal basis for such decisions is our Labour Code, the Labour Code. I hope that in the near future the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider the Second reading of the Labour Code, the relevant standards will be revised and, on the basis of these standards, the regulations will be amended, including our orders from the Ministry of Social Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u19	Please, Mr. Petrenko is answering the second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u20	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Thank you for asking. In fact, the task of the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian government is to effectively combat corruption and ensure the smooth functioning of the new anti-corruption bodies, at which we allocate huge funds to our Ukrainian citizens. But the situation that has been the case with NAZC in the last few months is that because of the ineffective management of those random people who were assigned there, we now have a situation where the entire electronic declaration system depends on the inaction of four people. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice has drafted a bill to carry out the mandate of the Prime Minister of Ukraine in conjunction with civil experts. And today we're going to present it at 11:30 in conjunction with Transparency International. The basics of this bill: we remove collective irresponsibility in the NAM system, we propose relaunching the competition, assigning a new leader and authority to this body accordingly. Thirdly, we suggest that there be restrictions on the level of the law on the number of premiums that are not justified by the NAMC leaders. Fourth: we suggest that an external audit of the NAM activity be introduced every year. Fifth, with regard to the thousands of Ukrainian civil servants who have failed to file declarations because of the inaction of these leaders, we propose that the Ukrainian Parliament allow these people to submit declarations by 1 May of this year, and that they are not actually brought to criminal liability because of the irresponsibility of individuals. I very much ask that next week's Ukrainian Parliament consider this bill and adopt it as a whole, because in fact, the terms that are currently going on, they leave very little time until 1 May. Similarly, the government assumes responsibility at the level of law for the uninterrupted work of the register for the time of the competition. I'm asking everyone to correct this mistake, and that we have a really effective independent anti-corruption body that will work and produce results. It's a check of government officials, it's an attraction to the responsibility of those who lie in declarations, it's keeping a normal register. And you and I have to make sure of that. I'm sure we'll find an understanding here and correct this mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Maxime Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u22	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished members of the government! Volodymyr Borisovich, the situation requires your immediate personal intervention. I very much ask you to warn us about a catastrophic mistake with hot heads in the Ministry of Health. Dniper is the only hospital in the country with strict supervision. They are subject to the rules of the Criminal Procedure Code of persons who are found to be inexcusable (unrepentant) in committing the most serious crimes of crime — murderers, serial killers, rapists. The point is that the Ministry of Health has prepared a draft order and is trying to get these people who committed the most terrible crimes (melting, decapitating people) to transfer them to civilian health facilities. That's impossible. Savechenko will be "the law of Savechenko", a child's morning compared to that order. I ask you to stop and take a look at this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u23	Thank you, noble national MPs! At your request, I am directing the Acting Minister of Health to discuss the matter in detail with you and to make the appropriate decision. Oulana, please work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u24	Thank you. Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u25	Hello, respectable colleagues, respected Ukrainian citizens! Especially pensioners who are not expected to be very good, perhaps in the near future. Everyone's saying that it's a visa-free win. But I would like to draw particular attention to the signings of the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy with IMF on how pension reform will be addressed. You're saying there won't be an insurance promotion. The memorandum clearly states that effective retirement age, particularly age, is being raised. However, the memorandum describes the proposed budget savings of at least 3 per cent of GDP in the long term. For a minute, that's 45 billion bracelets! So I'd like to ask you a question. For those citizens who do not benefit from the visa-free regime because their standard of living has been brought to a destitute standard of living, they cannot end with food and clothing. How are you going to save 45 billion bracelets from this socially vulnerable population? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u26	To whom do you ask?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u27	Let's go, shall we? May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u28	Yes, please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u29	Thank you! Dear colleague of the Ukrainian Nationals, I have one request. Let us stop for the sake of, perhaps, showing someone on TV to frighten the Ukrainian people. I just want to warn everyone, because in fact, in recent years many, decades even, many have suffered from such fears that tomorrow there will be no pension, that tomorrow we will not prepare for the heat, for the winter, more precisely that something else will happen and so on. Let's call things our names, let's learn to speak in white, in white, in black, in black. That's what I'm calling you to. I'm stressing that the pension system that works in the country today is totally unfair, and 85 percent get a minimum pension, which is actually the total poverty of Ukrainian pensioners. And you and I, independently of the political flags, have to change this system in order to achieve three parameters. Option one. This system should eventually become fair. And here we need to pay attention to the retirement pensioner’s life expectancy. And you have to agree with that, it's the same thing as understanding that the sun is coming up in the morning. Second position. We now have totally low pensions, a pension deficit of over 140 billion. This only means that the system in which half is subsidized is non-existent, and we have to solve the issue of deficit. And question number three. I am fully responsible for the fact that after the government has made an unforeseeable alternative to pension reform, attention, an increase in retirement age, and other measures that will allow for the construction of a fair and non-deficit system, the government of Ukraine will make a recalculation of the pension for Ukrainian citizens substantial enough. And since October 1, 2017, we will be able to raise our pension in Ukraine. I urge you, the faction of the Opposition Block, to reject your political views on. No views, no views, no views, no political flags aside, take one flag state and share with coalition factions and other factions that may actually become factions that will turn this system into a fair one, vote this option of pension reform, of course, after the discussion we will have with you in this room. But I am responsible for saying that our job is to raise the pensions of Ukrainian citizens and change the system. So once again, let's stop scaring people, let's talk about exactly what we're going to do, and how it's going to affect the quality of people's lives. It is very important for us to take Ukraine out of the gap, to allow people to feel perspective and to feel in their own pockets that prices remain stable, and the income, the real income of citizens is rising. We have a decision to make with you. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u30	Mr. Sergey, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u31	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Vladimir Borisovich, a question. Vladimir Borisovich! Questions to you. We're very happy that you have a principled position on subscription to gas counters and we think that the overall effort is going to make this decision go away. But you know that for almost three years there's another subscription, it's using the smoke channels that burn the gas. And people paid 50 bucks three years ago for every household, and now up to 100 dollars are being paid. Thus, thanks to a year of fighting and thanks to two ministers, Nasalika and Revi, the Ministry of Social Policy was the only explanation for the fact that it was impossible to accept this payment from the people last week. But district administrations help all parts of the village to besieg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u32	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u33	They're under siege, they're assigning villages to the district administration, they're taking this payment illegally. So, I'm asking you, give the authority to district administrations, district administrations to distribute a television from the minister of social policy about the fact that you can't take this subscription without people ordering it. And that's no reason to shut down the gas, because it's billions sitting in the pockets of dealers and officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u34	Thank you, distinguished national MPs, I've made your remarks, and I'm about to give you a commission from the Ministry of the Interior to work on this issue together with the Ministry of Politics. But what I'm saying is that in a multi-story building, this issue is settled by quarterly payment, it's part of a quarter payment, and a quarter payment is being set up by local authorities, and the government has nothing to do with it. But if you are in rural areas about what you said, you need a separate assignment. So I'll give you an assignment from your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, Gus Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u36	Good afternoon! 19th Electoral District of Igor Gus. Vladimir Borisovich, to you the question is, we're on Volin, I'm talking about it a few times, there's a mess going on, the last case of the next character. The head of the district administration in my district of Mikola Parhomemuk on March 31st is being bribed for $2,000. Three days later, he pays half a million dollars, gets out because he was behind bars, and he takes up duties as the head of the RDA. This man worked as Governor Gunchik's full-time advisor for a year, and the governor is now covering for this man, in the area of the brothel. You, Vladimir Borisovich, did not come to Volin in three years. I'm asking you to check into the area and release the head of the district administration who doesn't control the situation in the area, surround himself with bribes, please intervene. And the question is, did this official get fired?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u37	Thank you so much for your question. I don't think we have that kind of mess on Volina when we have people's deputies, I think you'll agree. We have in Volina, and I think there are a lot of positive examples of what might be an example for another country as well. This issue was raised at the government meeting by Interior Minister Arsen Avakov, who informed me and informed the government that it had happened. Of course, that's totally unacceptable. I immediately asked the President's Administration to initiate a procedure to remove him from his position, and the government fully supports and agrees. And I think it's a matter of honor if he's caught in a bribe, he's supposed to be in prison, not in his chair. But this must prove the investigation, and by that time he has no right to carry out his duties because he already is. suspected of compromising. compromised. I totally agree with you here. Now it's about visiting. I will definitely come to Volin, no questions asked. I go around the country a lot, but only when I have the opportunity. At least once a week, I try to visit one region or another. I'm sure I'll come to Volin. You're inviting me, aren't you? Well, thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u38	I'll remind you that UPA was born in Volina. So Volin needs to be treated with respect. Opposition Block, Matvienkov Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u39	Matvienkov 57 district, Mariupol city. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I'd like a moment of your attention. I would like to raise once again the question of the restructuring of the debt for the gas consumed before the “Naftegas” “Maripolteplesets”. Given the characteristics of the city of Mariupol, we have spoken to you on this subject on several occasions, and you have agreed that we really need to accept this debt in the city of Mariupola. We've talked to you several times, three times. You talked to Kubi, probably three times, you were in the city of Mariupoli -- you promised to solve that question. "Give me the letters," I give you the letters. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we're all leaders, I understand fluently, I understand everything. But there's a limit, there's some kind of ethics, let's say that. Look, I can give you these answers that I'm getting. And every time we speak verbally, I get an invitation to what we're going to decide. Well, let's, at the end of the day, hit the table with a fist and say, we decide or we don't decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u40	Thank you, the noble national MP of Ukraine. I want to say in Mariupol that there's a competent city head, Vadim Boychenko, with whom we're in constant contact, but you have more than 200 million dollars in debt, and that's not a question of flow, and that's an extremely serious question to settle. So today I find out again with the city’s head, which are the solutions. Whatever the government needs, we'll do. But one thing you have to understand is that we're not magicians, and the question of over 200 million is not a question that can be solved because you've come to me. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u41	Thank you. Packan Valeriy Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u42	Please pass the word to Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u43	I have a question for the Foreign Minister. Dear Paul Anatolyovich, we are all looking forward to the final decision on the visa waiver. But yesterday, when there was a business vote in Strasbourg, it was at this time that the Russian occupations of Simferopol were in Simferopol. Russian invaders raided the central market. They delayed only those with non - Slavonic appearance and beard, or Crimean Tatars. Eighty people were taken out, fingerprints and DNA samples taken. So, Mr. Minister, how are we dealing with the realization of our shared idea, the idea that the President of Ukraine has heard about the creation of a separate international crime scene? Where, when, and in what format, he will begin his work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u44	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u45	Where, when and in what format, will such a site on the Crimea begin its work? When will we unite all issues related to the restoration of Ukraine’s territorial integrity? Crimea, Donbas and together, when is this going to happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. First, last year and this year as a result of our work together, we have the UN General Assembly Resolution on Human Rights Violations. This is both a legal and a political basis for working with both the UN and other international organizations to create pressure and access to the territory of the temporarily occupied Crimea. We are now working with the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, working with the Council of Europe to implement this idea. So far, we have made a special emphasis on human rights. In fact, with regard to yesterday’s events, we have already notified our friends and partners in order to obtain the most appropriate response. The idea of creating a separate format refers to the idea of constructing this or on the site of the Great Seven with the involvement of the European Union, or with the involvement of the Geneva format. Today we have the consent of all partners, except, of course, the Russian Federation, who are trying to completely block this issue. So we want to start (I want to finish, two sentences) with the key human rights issues -- what we do on international sites. And gradually add other questions to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u47	Thank you. The fisherman Sergey passes the word to Andrew Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u48	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. The question to Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman. But I would very much like Uljana’s Minister of Health, Nadia Suprun, to listen carefully and to express her opinion. There's an appeal to the Cabinet of the Plains District Council regarding. where there are warnings about the formation of hospital districts. Similarly, similar problems exist in most areas of Ukraine. This reform called the hospital district is not a reform in this way, it's genocide, because people are deprived of their right to basic health care. The following are the warnings. Hospital districts should be formed at the end of decentralization processes when all the OTG elections are held. The local community should form a hospital district, not an OTG, not a Minrejonbud, which is not even a professional one. You're going to throw a lot of narrow-profile doctors out on the street with this kind of grief-reform, and that's what it is now. Give me 10 more seconds, please. It's a very small amount.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u49	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u50	Very small number of hospital districts themselves. For example, there should be only three of them on my equinox. There's not enough roads for people to come. There's going to be a reduction in the FAPs, the infirmary. Just the elderly, the people in the villages will not have the basic right to protect their health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u51	Thank you very much, distinguished national MPs, for your question. Look. What is genocide, as you said? This is in the system that is today. If you look at the statistics right now, the analysis of how long Ukrainian lives and what mortality are, you're just going to be shocked that we're actually losing people just because that health system that is in the country today is inadequate and incapable of giving people quality medical care. See what's going on today. People don't have access to quality medicine, and that's a fact. And doctors don't have access, including quality technology, and they don't actually have the ability to evaluate their highly skilled work. It's a powerful signal that the system needs to be changed. In order to change this system, we need to create a system where health institutions are provided, doctors will get a normal salary, and we will finance, not hospital walls or a cot-town, but we will finance a specific high-quality health service. And that's why the Ministry of Health, the government has identified itself with this model and is asking Parliament, together with you, to change this system so that we can finally breathe fresh air into this system, change it. And I realize that many will talk about what is wrong, that it is not necessary to do so, that it will take time or fail to do so. If, God forbid, this will happen, people will continue to be restricted to access to medical care. normal medical care. Doctors will continue to be stagnant, and we will not be able to provide quality medical care. So the medical district is the formation of a single medical system of an area that will only be called for: quality access to the primary chain, that is, as you said, the infirmary and the FAP. No one in the country has the right to close down the infirmary and the FAP, and they have to be opened and approached as close as possible to the people, because 85 percent of people go to the primary link, there's prevention, and there's got to be an early detection of the disease. On stage two, it's a hospital. I would very much like these hospitals to be modernized to have quality equipment so that there is not a number of doctors, but a quality of doctors. When a person comes in, receives quality services, does not have to undergo retesting, does not need to be rediagnosed, because something has been said or, God forbid, does an operation and needs to be repeated because it has been inconvenient or infected during the operation. It all depends on the technical modernization and re-arming of hospitals, and we want to do it with you. So I'm stressing that the number of districts should come out first of all to give quality access to medicine. It's better to go to a hospital for 20 minutes, 30 minutes more, but get quality services, get better in three or four days, and not go back to a disease than to come to a low-skilled hospital with a gray wall, there's no conditions, there's no hot water, there's no bad condition, there's no medical care, or there's an operating table that's been operated on since World War II, and then there's two weeks, three weeks, a month, or, God forbid, to die than to go to a hospital that has normal and normal quality, normal service. The general philosophy of government. We're making some point changes, and once again we're paying for the doctor's work, that's not enough, and the first step, we've put together with you, honourable national deputies, free medicine, this year we're finally going to buy 30 percent more drugs for stationary patients, we're going to expand the network of cardiovascular surgery centers, and we're going to save thousands of Ukrainian citizens' lives, but that's not enough. So I would like to stress that this is a matter of local authority, of leadership, of driving and of making a system so that when people use this system, they are grateful to you and can return to their families. I encourage you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u52	Thank you. Berezuk Oleg Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u53	Mr. Prime Minister, we have just adequately described the medical situation. The Self-Help faction supports this activity carried out by the Ministry of Health and uses all its possibilities to explain. But today, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, there is a dramatic injustice in the pay of average medical personnel and doctors. As long as we do this, you and I will lose the middle line of medicine, nurses who today, Mr. Prime Minister, today, cannot wait until tomorrow just because they have nothing to live for. And they don't want to go out, they don't even want to go out to the Supreme Council anymore, they want to go to Poland, Slovakia, Germany, because they're highly professional.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u54	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u55	Your personal attention to equalizing the pay to nurses and doctors in hospitals today. And all your initiatives, the initiatives of the WHO on health reform, the Self-Help faction supports all possibilities and is your partner, regardless of the opposition and the kind of disrespect we feel in the replicas of some of the Kabmin workers and leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u56	Thank you very much. By no means do we have any disrespect for the national deputies of Ukraine. We respect the national MPs as the government of Ukraine. And they're always set up for constructive cooperation. In fact, we can critically assess the actions of some of the factions because we think they are anti-government in nature, and we're talking about this completely openly. I think time will answer how much we were right. But with regard to health care. I thank you for your willingness to support the government’s action on health reform. It's about to change the funding system that's going to lead to an increase in the corresponding wages in this area. What we've done the first step towards double the minimum wage, I'm stressing is that this is a step towards combating poverty. I emphasize, I already said this today from this rostrum, that we're going to analyze the first quarter, we want to look at the real state of affairs of paying for areas, including the qualifications of doctors, nurses and other staff. And then we'll understand what steps we need to take to make a difference. But in any case, I think the first step we've taken is to double the minimum wage -- it's justified, it's the right one. And I emphasize that he's called on to fight poverty. And 4.5 million Ukrainian citizens still received a higher salary in 2017. But the good news is that this is just the beginning of our initiatives to raise social standards for Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u57	Thank you. And the last two questions, colleagues. Pavelko Andrey gives the word to Anatoly Matthew. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u58	Vladimir Borisovich! I'd like to address you on behalf of the Budget Committee. Last Wednesday we listened to the issue of funding one of the priorities set for 2017. It's a road question. We're seriously concerned that there's no financial security for the program you're proposing today. There's an assignment. By a decision of the Budget Act 2017, Minfina agreed by the National Bank to refinance, where to obtain a reduction in budget and 15 billion per road. As the National Bank conducted itself at a committee meeting, it is a disgrace. The National Bank has no national position. I'm asking you to raise this question at the President's level. And let's solve the financing problems. Otherwise, we'll take a good initiative. The other one. It's a question of "Restoration" and the question of "Ukreximbank." There's two billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u59	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u60	Give me an assignment. There is a need for the government to give consent to "Restoration." That's another two billion. And finally, release the credit resources, the credits that aren't released. And solve the questions of the frame. Because there is no one in Ukraine today to do construction work. Please, Vladimir Borisovich. Otherwise, we'll shut down the road program.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u61	The distinguished Anatoly Sergiyovich, respected colleagues, construction, reconstruction, and repair of roads for the government, is an absolute priority. You know how much attention we paid last year to this issue. This year, we've allocated 15 billion budgets, which have already been approved, and we've made decisions in the 17th-year budget on reprofile, that's another 15 billion. The 15 billion that have been allocated is already 2 billion debt restructuring to banks. We've made an agreement before that banks will go for this restructuring and we're in the process. But I would also like to emphasize my concern about the question of reprofilement, which is extremely important today, so that we can engage an additional 15 billion to repair Ukrainian roads, plus we already have a redundancies on customs, we think it's going to be about plus 5 billion a year. And at the same time, we're essentially calculating that we can allocate about 30 billion dollars. So the question of re-profileing or the re-profile initiative is a joint initiative of the faction coalition, it's the Peter Prashenko Block and the People's Front, it's the joint position of the President of Ukraine and our government, and mine as Prime Minister. And I've already turned to the National Bank with a letter, and it's a task for the Ministry of Finance to start preparing for the re-profile and involvement of these resources for the construction and reconstruction of Ukrainian roads. So the government is in this position and Parliament is in principle. I want to say that this is also a very important priority for the President, and he's working very hard on that too. Now the question is for the National Bank, and our task is to find with you the mechanisms for implementing this task with the National Bank. They're already behind schedule, but we're going to insist on making that decision. I am convinced that this year we will come to that decision. Although we understand that the National Bank is an independent regulator. Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich, for your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u62	Thank you. And the last question is, dispute Ivan Dmitrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u63	Ivan Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u64	Excuse me, Mr. John, just give me a second, the minister will add an answer, and then I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u65	It's just the latest information on the re-filement to make it clear where the process is now. The government, really, did its job, we agreed on the terms of the reprofile on our part. The documents are now in the National Bank, being analyzed by the external audit of the National Bank. I think it should be. It has to be over in, well, actually, a week or two and then we can start this transaction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u66	Thank you, Minister of Finance, for the comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u67	Thank you. Ivan Dmitrovitch, please. You're arguing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u68	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. I have a question for Mrs. Ulyana Suprun. Well, first of all, today is World Health Day. Well, first of all, I want to thank Mrs. Ulyssa for having a nice load with us today, and probably if we were doing this exercise daily, we wouldn't be going to the pharmacies for drugs. But, at the same time, what I'd like to say is what the Ministry of Health is doing right now, so that these dozens of drugs that they bought for 41 directions don't have a corrupt component? So that he could. The doctor will prescribe a kind recipe and you can go to a loved one and then take these expensive medications. So I think here, in order for there to be no corruption elements, we have to somehow provide this. So I would like Mrs. Ulyana to answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u69	Good afternoon! Welcome to World Health Day. Today we had a charge in the park to get the attention of all the Ukrainians that we should live better and not need to be treated, and then we're going to need less of the drugs that we're talking about right now. Since April 1, we started the 9.20 "Available Drugs" program. 1 CNS (international non-proprietary names). Now there are medicines that can be obtained in pharmacies free of charge or with a small supplement. There are already more than two thousand pharmacies involved, there are 157 other trade names, there are 35 manufacturers, which are from 17. 18 countries in the European Union, 15 in Ukraine, 1 in Israel, and 1 in India. These drugs will be given free of charge for those who have a very specific form (reception), which is written by an international non-proprietary name, and not by a commercial name, then the patient can choose what commercial name they want to take. The drugs that are going to help us now so that we can have continuous treatment for our patients who have hypertension, who have type III diabetes, bronchial asthma, so that they can live a healthier, quality life again, so that they don't get sick and get into hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u70	Thank you. Mrs. Ulyana, in plastic, we're going to have a rush in the morning, we're going to have a go.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u71	That's what's gonna Welcome to Layer Day, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u72	Prime Minister, please give a wise closing word to the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u73	Can I have a closing word? No more questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u74	No, there are no questions, but there is a waiting for the wise word of the Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear fellow national MPs! I would like to say that, over the last week, we have a number of important events to inspire us to make serious moves and refinements. It's really important that we focus with you on economic growth and long-term macroeconomic stability of growth. In fact, when we are asked, what should we do specifically to make people feel? There's already a very clear answer to this question, and I'm looking very clearly at what we can do in 2017 to stabilize the situation seriously enough and speed up economic growth. We really need to make a number of key decisions in the Ukrainian Parliament in 2017. The Ukrainian government recently adopted a plan of action by 2020, which envisions five goals to be achieved with you, and the first priority is economic growth. And what I want to stress is that literally last week we got an extension of the program with the International Monetary Fund of our macroeconomic stability and support, that's a very important step. The second position, we've received macro-financial support from the European Union, is also an extremely important step. Yesterday, the European Parliament decided to introduce a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens, another positive signal for Ukraine. Literally yesterday or yesterday, we met today with the Ambassador of Canada to Ukraine. The Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence of Canada signed an agreement to enhance cooperation in the field of defence. These are all the positive signals that tell us that we are on the right track. But we need to understand that we need to build a self-sufficient economy that will not depend on macro-financial support, on our international partners, to whom we are very grateful, but we need to understand that debt needs to be repaid, and our main task is to become economically strong. So I would like to stress that five key reforms are critical this year, and we will ask the Ukrainian Parliament to support this. And after we make these changes and these decisions, you can look people in the eye completely honestly and openly, because in 2017 and in 2018, and in the coming years, and the pension will go up, and the prices will be stable, and the wages will be higher for Ukrainian citizens, and we'll have a more stable national currency and we'll be able to move forward. So, I would like to stress that these five decisions depend on how the country will live tomorrow and on the medium-term and long-term prospects: the first is a fair pension reform; the second is a large-scale, open-ended, competitive sale of inefficiently used state property that is not strategic for Ukraine; it is a land reform in the name and interests of Ukrainian agriculture, and you will see that this will be a huge movement of national economic development, and we will propose the model that we have proposed with international partners; the next is a reform of education that is already in parliament, and support for health reform. We thank you, the Ukrainian Parliament, for deciding yesterday on the autonomy of medical institutions. This is just the first step in building a modern health system. In addition, we're going to build roads, we're going to do energy efficiency and issues of our energy dependency, we're going to develop other spheres of economics, and including, we're going to propose to the Ukrainian Parliament that we adopt legislation on the development of innovation technologies in our country, on the development of technology parks. This is legislation that we plan to work on and bring to the Ukrainian Parliament as soon as possible. We have enough ambitious plans, but we need the support of 226 Ukrainian national deputies. And I know exactly what will be possible, and on October 1st of this year, we'll have to increase a lot of pensions for Ukrainian citizens, we'll have to fight off a once-in-a-lifelong attack of naked populism, and we'll ensure the economic growth and success of our country, the predictability of Ukraine's development, which will be understood by every Ukrainian citizen. I want all of us to be involved in a joint victory. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine! With the festival you, my dear friends, with the Annunciation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u76	Thank you. Heroim Slava! "A year of questions to the government" is over. We thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you, fellow ministers, for your successful, fruitful work. Now we go to the next section of the agenda. This is the announcement of parliamentary inquiries. And I invite Irina Heratchenko, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to read the announcement, and then Oksana Siroid to read the questions. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "For the development of the defence and aviation sector of Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Victor Krivenk, was elected head of this association. We welcome you and wish you an IFO of fruitful work. And we now invite the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to announce the parliamentary inquiries.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u78	Please take your seats, get ready to work, and listen to your requests, your esteemed colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u79	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the question of MPs. First of all, we have two requests to the President of Ukraine for which we need the support of the Hall. The first request is the request of National Deputy Dmitry Dobrodomov to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine. Oh, I'm sorry, it's already, it's to the President we don't have, it's only to the government. Okay. Dmitra Dobrodomov to Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Director of the State Enterprise "Krenergo" for the search for a legal mechanism for the transfer of the road to the villages of Grabów, the Plain region, the Plain region to municipal property. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the announcement of the natural territory of the Kuyalnicke Lyman of Odessa to the resort of State importance. Sergey Rybalka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Government Administration on the need for urgent measures to continue funding for the University of Dnipropetrov. Groups of National Deputies (Cervakovo, Palamarczuk and others; only 4 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of prosecutors and the National Police in investigating the resonant crimes in the village of the city-type Kotsubinsk Kyiv region. Helen Sotnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the results of investigations into crimes involving high - ranking workers who have committed crimes in the field of service or corruption. Alexander Sugonjako and Ruslan Solvara to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the harmonization of the scholarship mechanism in 2017. Oleg Osuhovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent measures taken to preserve the Public Shareholders Association "Rineazot". Igora Artushenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of emergency and rehabilitation work on the road crossing of the Dniproges dam in Zaporozhye. Igora Artushenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of State aid for socio-economic development in the city of Melitopol of Zaporez Region. Vladimir Parasuka to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of possible violations of the law during the illustration of the Deputy Chief of the Kramator Department of the Andrija Drumov Police and on the legality of his appointment in law enforcement, as well as on the verification of the facts of sexism on the part of Andrija Drumov in relation to the subordinates. Mikoli Lušnjak and Andrija Kota to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the protection of the country's food security. Viktor Razwadowski to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District Administration for the provision of funds for the operational treatment of Stépanek Andriy Viktorovich, resident of the village of Snigura, the district of Zitomir, the district of Zitomir. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district administration for the provision of an electrocardiograph to the medical infirmary of the village of Kodnja Žitomir district, in the area of Zitomir. Jurya Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the situation and the resolution of the issues of living in the Jerelo medical and health complex (Pushta Vodica, Kiev) of displaced persons from the Donetské and Lugansk areas, the fulfilment of the requirements of current legislation for housing of internally displaced persons. Jurya Boyka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the urgent intervention and cessation of the threat of execution, other illegal actions against displaced persons from Donetsk and Lugansk areas living in the Jerelo medical and health complex (Pushta Vodica, Kyiv). Vitalia Kuril to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer of state property to his direct owner, the State. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of garbage disposal and the construction of a plant for the processing of solid household waste in the territory of the Trostian United Community of the Mikolai district of Lviv district without the permission of the local community. Oleg Musia to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the irregularity of bringing a double commission to pay for the services of the JCG. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Šinkovič to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the establishment of a benefit for employees of state and municipal club facilities over the years. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Šinkovič to the head of the Krasilov District Council of the Hmelnicke District, head of the Krasilov Regional Government Administration of the Hmelnicke District on the status of the implementation of the "Programme to overcome the negative impact of the work of the Chernobyl Water Force on the water supply status of the inhabited Krasilov region, which relates to its concept, for 2007-2020 years." John Sporish to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the improper investigation by the Kyiv Local Prosecutor's Office No. 5 criminal conduct No. 420151010500004 and No. 12015100050005781. Paul Kishkar to the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine for information on all sports schools and clubs operating in Ukraine. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget for the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for 2017 for the capital repair of the road Lebedin-Lipova Valley, which passes through the territory of the Labedin and Lipovodline districts of the Suma region. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of representatives of the City Council of Ohtyr Sumsk to create the management of the drilling works of Pat "Ukranafta" on the basis of the Ohtyr Storm Administration. Savchenko's hopes for the Ukrainian Minister of Culture for the preservation of the historic architectural heritage in Lviv. Savchenko’s hopes for the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for providing information on the reasons, circumstances and responsible persons who have made decisions regarding the admission to employment with the Ukrainian Security Service. Igor Guza to Prime Minister Viácheslav Kirilenka of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, on the need to allocate funds for the release of the book "Volodimir Karavayev" (a photo album by a Volin artist who created in the middle of the 20th century). Igor Goose to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Service of Ukraine for geodesy, cartography, and cadastre as to the need to remedy cadastral deficiencies regarding the borders of the city of Novovolinsk and Ivanichov region (Volinsk region) and to amend the index cadastre maps. Dmitry Linka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, heads of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Central Electoral Commission, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights on the inaction of officials of the Poznań City Council and the City Election Commission of the Kirovograd Region. Dmitry Linka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the official examination of the State Registers of the Main Territorial Administration of Justice in Kiev Harchenko and Poddubnjak, as well as private notaries of the Kyiv Notary District of Strelchenko and Čmiruk. Vadim Yvchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, acting as Head of the National Fiscal Service for Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to stop illegal interference by law enforcement and fiscal authorities in the economic activities of T.O. "Mria Agro Podgayci" (City of Hmeljnicki Hmelnicki district). Michael Bondar to Deputy Prime Minister Paul Rosenk of Ukraine for amendments and additions to the Cabinet of Ministers Decision of 19 October 2016 No. 719 "Questions of housing for certain categories of persons who protected independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and their families" for the purpose of further social protection measures for persons mobilized in connection with the conduct of the ATO and their families. Mikhail Bondar to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the military section of 1642 in the city of Radehov of the Lviv region and its further use for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Andrija Derkača to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on non-compliance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and Ukrainian legislation in the appointment of officials. Natalia Royal and Yuri Solod to the Kiev City Head for not allowing the premises of the Kiev City Veterans Organization of Ukraine. Natalia Royal and Yuri Solod to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of damaged objects in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas and the efficiency of the use of funds allocated for the stated purposes. Groups of National Deputies (Korchinska, Gopko and others; only 12 deputies) to the head of the Kyiv City Administration, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Head of the National Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine for the verification of construction in the territory of the Kyevo-Pecher Historical and Cultural Reserve. John Baloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the capital repair of the roads of the town of Gradov and the district of Zacarpat. John Rybak to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the head of the Chernobyl District Administration, the head of the Montenegrin District Council on the assignment of the forest fund of the Kitzman Forestry "Chernowese Forestry" to the status of the local contracting authority." John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin District State Administration for State-level State-level Road Administration, Laskovka Sukhoverkhov (Travel of Kitzman City) and funding its construction. Vladimir Husak to the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Kiev City Head, the liquidator of the State Association of the Kyiv Radio Plant for the transfer of the East Sport Complex (East) to the municipal property of the city of Kiev, ensuring its proper financing, restoration and functioning as a sports establishment of a broad profile for children and youth. Igora Shurma to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the absence of essential medical supplies in connection with the delay in the procurement process by officials of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the collapse of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health of Public Procurement for 2016-17 years, resulting in the absence of medicines and medical supplies at the Ukrainian medical and preventive facilities. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, for the non-encouragement of the GES stunt on the Upper Dniester. Mikhail Golka, head of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine, heads of the National Bank of Ukraine for the non-closure of the administration of the National Bank of Ukraine in the Ternopil region. Igor Kotwiecki to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to allocate funds to fund the elimination of the consequences of the extraordinary situation in Balaklia Kharkiv region. Igor Kotwiecki to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the preparations for the Euro-2017 Song Competition. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the first-line free provision of individual gas counters for socially vulnerable categories of citizens. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of revenue from the budget of the city of Harkov in connection with the planned changes to current legislation in part of the distribution of income. Sergia Soboljeva to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the conduct of the Head of the Zaporozhye District Administration by Constantine Brilem and the heads of the District State Administrations of Criminal Offences in Operation Crop-2016, aimed at the illegal occupation of some 10,000 hectares of pastures, haystacks and other sites in the territory of Zaporez Region, which are divided among the owners of land particles (pows). Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to protect the legitimate rights and interests of the inhabitants of the Luhansk region, in connection with the non-payment of pensions for July 2014. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for State support to address the construction of the Severodonetsk-Bakhmutovka railway line in the Lugansk region. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the proper financing of the National Museum of Natural Sciences of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services on Unwarranted Cancellation of Aids Granted to Authorities of Local Power Self-Government, which they used during the Night for the purpose of external lighting of the settlements. Olesia Long to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, on improving IT statistics. Alexander Brigintz to the head of the Donetsk district government regarding the provision of information. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the processing and preparation of precise data in the field of the calculation of child deaths during or as a result of the armed conflict in eastern Ukraine and the treatment of orphans and children deprived of parental care. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Government’s Human Rights Court for the submission of copies of inter-State applications submitted by Ukraine to the European Court of Human Rights against the Russian Federation. Fedor Negoya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the arrival of a tax on the income of natural persons in rural, rural and district budgets of 75 per cent. A group of national deputies (Parasjuka, Soboleva and others; only 7 deputies) to the head of the National Film Agency of Ukraine, the head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Broadcasting on the planned television channel "Ukraine" films produced and first published by the physical and legal persons of the Russian Federation after 1 January 2014, and the violation of the T.T.T.T. "Ukraine" ascribed article 151 of the Ukraine Act "On Cinematography". Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Zitomir District State Administration for post-operative treatment and provision of medicines at the expense of the budget of the disabled person and group. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Defence Minister for Prosthetics of Ball joints, Treatment and Drug Administration, at the expense of budgetary resources. Vadim Krivohatka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on strengthening the social protection of pensioners. Vadim Krivochatka to the Prime Minister for the non-construction and operation of the enrichment and conversion of the Cauldron TOV "Biliai's Enriching Combined" on the territory of the Pavlova Rural Council of the province of Vilnius. Olga Bogolitz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the underfunding of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. Olga Bogolitz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about dual citizenship. Borislav Rosenblatt to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the immediate cessation of service offences committed by officials of the State Geology Service and the nadar of Ukraine. Alexander Ponomárov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the promotion of rail passenger transport in the direction of the city of Berdjansk Zaporzyk Region since May 2017. Jury Bublika to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for Separatist manifestations in the District Court of Poltava. Andrija Galchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation of purchasing cost materials for peritoneal dialysis. John Baloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the capital repair of the roads of the city of Beregovo and the Beregiv district of Zakarpat. Vassila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for flood management at Zakarpatta. Alexander Kodola to the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to create a register of palliative patients and to adopt the Strategy for the Development of palliative assistance. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to take into account the time spent by the military service for mobilization into the insurance period and the financial security for the period of service until the salary in the calculation of the pension. Romana Macola to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the review and cancellation of the decision to set up a subscription fee for transport and distribution of natural gas. Romana Matzola to the Ukrainian Human Rights Council, Cabinet of Ministers of Justice, Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Pension Fund of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to protect the social security of citizens, which extend the validity of the Ukrainian Law on Social Protection of Children of War to the payment of pensions, in accordance with judicial decisions. John Melnichuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Vinick district government administration for amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing of Property Rights Objects that are not privatized. Alexander Nechayeva to the head of the Suma District State Administration on the need to resolve the issue of financing jobs at the Suma Geriatric House for war and labor veterans. Alexia Lensky, head of the National Police Department of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, for the conduct of a test of the inaction of members of the Brussels Police Department of the Corstosius Police Department of the National Police Department of the Zitomir Region during the investigation of the Lazarovka District of the province of Brusiliv, where Pinchuk Valentin Valentinović was injured. Alexia Lensky to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the use of immediate response measures aimed at halting violations of the rights of citizens of the Constitution to safety and environmental health, the elimination of environmental hazards associated with air pollution by T.O.T. "Tark Ecoservices", the verification of compliance with environmental legislation in the discharge of pollutants into the atmosphere. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on rising unemployment rates in Ukraine. Mr. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on education reform. Alexander Abdullin to the Rector of Bukovin State Medical University for the provision of medical personnel in the northern regions of Plains, affected by an accident at CHAES. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for an increase in the medical subsidy from the State Budget to local budgets. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the Equality District State Administration for the Medical Care of Multiple Sclerosis in the Plains Region. Vasil Janicka, head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on Free Nutrition at the Zabolottov School of Education, I-III, was in the Vladimir region of the Plain region. Alexander Brigintz to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Ukraine’s Minister of Health, on the need to regulate the mechanism for the submission of supporting documents to working citizens during the care of seriously ill children (under hospital treatment). Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney-General of Ukraine, Chief Military Prosecutor, Head of Kharkiv District State Administration for the provision of housing and compensation by the State to the inhabitants of Balaklia Kharkiv region. Stepan Iwakhiv to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the financing of measures to prevent sub-dwelling of the population and agricultural and forestry conditions of the Volin region. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Odessa District Administration for the proper financing of veterinary hospitals and veterinary laboratories in the southern districts of the Odessa region. Dmitry Schenchev and Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of the allocation of additional funds from the State Budget of Ukraine for the purchase (building) of housing for families who lost their homes as a result of an extraordinary situation that took place on 23 March 2017 in the city of Balakley Kharkiv district. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take measures to ensure the realization of the right to travel with disabilities and participants in the Great War. Alexander Revega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, on the application of measures to ensure the realization of the housing rights of military personnel and their families in the city of Berdichov in the Žitomir region. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of additional amounts of government subsidies for the maintenance of the Corstene Central Hospital in connection with the increase in the minimum wage in 2017. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District State Administration for the preservation of the communal educational institution "Doubian Special School of Public Education" of the Žitomir District Council. Groups of National Deputies (Lashka, Bogdana and others, only 13 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to increase funding from Ukraine's State Budget, budget programme 2301360 "Talking Ukrainian Citizens abroad". Igor Popov to the head of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption in the Work of the E-Declaration System. Dmitry Timchuk until he was temporarily acting as Ukrainian Minister of Health for the provision of medicines for children with disabilities. Sergia Leshchenka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the Pollution of Lake Baklažna in the village of Vishki Boripil district of Kyiv. Sergia Leshchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on possible violations of the Blue Market site in the Shevchenkov district of Kiev. Jury of Bereza to head of the State Service of Ukraine for the work on the protection of the rights of the collective and the professional committee of the State Vocational and Technical Institute of Western Dniprova Centre for Vocational and Technical Education. Yurya Bereza to Dniprovsky’s city head on the accident of the house on the avenue of Dmitr Yavorniecki, 41 in Dnipro and endangers the lives and health of the inhabitants and the territorial community of the city. Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of institutional and legal measures for free transfer from the state to municipal property of the preschool building No.331 on the street of Dniprožinska, 110 in the Darnicki district of Kiev. Alexander Suprunenka to the Kiev City Head on the need for immediate introduction to the Kyivrada of proposals for changes to the Kiev budget and to the capital's Economic and Social Development Programme for 2017 as part of the allocation of the free balances of budgetary resources that were formed for the beginning of the financial year. Andrija Illenka is head of the Kyiv City Government Administration, CEO of the Kyivtodor Municipal Corporation, for the introduction of the Kyivtodor Social and Economic Development Programme of Kiev to the issue of the capital repair of asphalt coverage in the Right-wing region. Andrija Illenka is responsible for the responsibility of the head of the Right District in Kiev State Administration, acting as Director of the Department of Housing and Communal Infrastructure of the Kyiv City State Administration, Director-General of the Specialised Water Management Company of the Kyivrad Executive Body of the Kiev City State Administration Kyivvodfond, Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association, Kyivvodkanal Shareholder Company, to restore the work of the bilateral complexes. Gregory Times to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to eliminate the negative effects of the work of the CP "Chernovitzivodokal" in the village of Magala Novoselicke region of the Cherniewice region and other management entities that cause soil and groundwater pollution. Gregory Times of the Acting Head of the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and cadastre for the conduct of a legal review of the activities of the General Administration of the Dergeokadastro in the Cherniv region for the granting of a permit for the development of projects by the Land Administration for the conduct of private agriculture to individual citizens from a mass of land owned by the Tarasovec Rural Council of the Chernobyl Region. Andreyevsky and Vitalia Stasuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the steps taken to create a state-owned city cadastre. Vitalia Stasuk and Dmitri Andriewski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the availability of air photographs of Ukraine's territory (part thereof), which can be used for urban purposes. Vladimir Aresonkov to the head of the Ukrainian Social Insurance Fund for the establishment of the Olev Social Insurance Fund in Žitomirščina. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the recalculation of pensions for former internal affairs officials. Groups of National Deputies (Sypka, Guljeva and others; only 10 deputies) to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the need for a State Program for the Development of the Ukrainian Family. Igor Popov to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and public services regulations in the order in which decisions are taken by the National Commission, which conducts maintained regulation in the areas of energy and utilities. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, in about 10 minutes, we'll have a record to discuss in "different." So I'm going to ask you to inform your faction colleagues so that people can accept and sign up. [[B in m in s a l in]] There will be no vote. We'll go straight to different. Please let your colleagues know. We'll finish reading in about 10 minutes. In view of the large number of unsatisfying answers to the questions, we will consider the answers to the questions. So the recording will be at 12 o'clock for 30 minutes. Vladimir Aresonkov to the head of the Ukrainian Social Insurance Fund for the establishment of the Olev Social Insurance Fund in Žitomirščina. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the recalculation of pensions for former internal affairs officials. Groups of National Deputies (Sypka, Guljeva and others; only 10 deputies) to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the need to establish a national programme for the development of the Ukrainian family. Igor Popov to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations in the order in which decisions are taken by the National Commission, which implements maintained regulation in the field of energy and utilities. Alexander Sugonjako and Ruslan Solvara to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Deputy Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the National Police Department of Kiev, Prosecutor of Kiev City, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the Protection of Rights Forced Residents of the Pension "Jerelo". Ruslan Solvar to the Attorney General of Ukraine, acting as head of the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography, and cadastre for the protection of land rights in the village of Lešna Makarov Region of Kiev. Ruslan Solvar to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine for the resolution of the issue of the recalculation of pensions for IMF employees. Anatolya Denisenka, under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the provision of funding for the State Objective Programme of KPC 23014,000 "Providing health care for individual state programmes and comprehensive measures of a public nature". Anatolia Denisenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the calculation of pensions to pensioners of internal affairs bodies in Ukraine and for the implementation of legislation on this issue. Paul Djublik to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, head of the Odessa District State Administration, on issues related to the conduct of economic activity in the territory of the local landlord of the Tarutin Stepe. Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, on the transfer to the municipal property of the City Village Council of the Radomisl district of Žitomir region of movable and immovable military property, which is on the balance of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the gasification of the village. Vitalia Guzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for active financing in 2017 for the construction and capital repair of social facilities in the Skuri district of Kyiv. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for active financing in 2017 for the construction and capital repair of social facilities in the Voddar region of Kiev. Oksana Bilozer to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on bringing to justice the responsibility of those involved in the beating on 2 April 2017 of schoolchildren in Montenegro and on taking urgent preventive measures aimed at warning the violence of minors. Victor Vuka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the organizational and institutional integration of the scientific sphere of Ukraine into the European Research Area. Andrea Shipka is the deputy head of the National Police of Ukraine, the head of the National Police Department in Kiev, for the use of measures to establish the facts of illegal possession by a person of a part of the National Cancer Institute building and to bring the guilty to justice. Mikoli Palamarchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a proper investigation into the fact that money is being demanded by a suspect in criminal conduct. Ruslana Demczak until the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to provide information on the conduct of complex bone marrow transplant operations in Ukraine at the expense of the state budget. Ruslan Demczak until he was temporarily acting director of the State-owned liquor and liquor industry, Ukrispirt, to restore the work of the Nemirovi IPD DP "Ukrispirt". Borislava Bereza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the development of communications in the village of Troyshina. Borislava Bereza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the state of implementation of the State Program from the construction of the Trust Centre in the right-wing district of Kiev. Sergey Rudika to the head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, the Public Shareholders Association of Chercasioblanergo on the urgent repayment of arrears from the payment of salaries to employees of the Kamyan and Smilyan regions of the power grids of the Cherka region. Sergey Rudika to assume the responsibilities of head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, acting as Head of the Road Service in the Cherkas region, to strengthen control over the use of public budget funds for the repair of state-owned roads that pass through the territory of the Cherkas region. Anna Romanova to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, President-in-Office of Ukraine for Children's Rights, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the beating of teenage girls by her peers in Montenegro on April 2, 2017. Anna Romanova to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv District State Administration, head of the Obukhiv District State Administration of the Kyiv Region, head of the Basilkow District State Administration of the Kyiv Region for the construction of a road in the unique tourist site of Ukraine, Kyivska Rus. Alexander Dombrovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Winnicki's City Head for the allocation of the funds needed for the first time after the privatisation of House No. 2 on the street of Gogol in Winnice, at the expense of his former owner, Vinnicki City Council. Alexander Villukla to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Head of Government of the State Fund for the Promotion of Youth Housing Buildings for the Restoration of Youth Credit, an increase in expenditure on government housing programmes, including affordable housing and subsidized youth lending, in Ukraine's National Budget for 2017. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and municipal services with regard to the repeal of paragraph 6.6 of the Rules on the use of electricity in part of the introduction of the budget and advance payments for the provision of electricity. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the application of measures to prevent the cessation of non-State pension funds and to clarify the compliance of non-State pension funds with the requirements of paragraph 133. Article 4 of Article 133 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. Victor Krivenk to the State Architectural Authority of Dniprov County. The Dniprov City Council on the groundless refusal to register a declaration of readiness for the operation of the facility: "Reconstruction of the administrative building on the street Sergey Podolinski, 31 J, Dnipra City". Victor Krivenk to the National Architectural Inspection Authority in the Hersson area on the groundless refusal of registration of a declaration of readiness to operate an object – Building a store, addressed: Herson County, Nova Kahovaca, 21a Mikli Kucher to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of the director of TOV "Teplik-Agro" Vasil Anchenka in the Teplička district of Winnick. Jury Timoshenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on compliance with the requirements of criminal criminal law for the search of housing and the proper investigation of criminal conduct. Yurya Timoshenko, head of the Ivano-Frankow District State Administration for the use of financial measures to continue the operation of the swimming pool in the village of Turka Pejaditsky OTG of the district of Colomia, in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on issues relating to the filling of the income portion of the local budgets of the mountain areas. Andrija Lopushanski to the Director of the Department of Roads, Transport and Communications of the Lviv District State Administration for Addressing Problems in Passenger Road Traffic Services in the Mountain Region of Lviv. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the possible deliberate delay in investigating the dumping of chemicals in the village of Ahmatów in the Cherkas region. Yurya Devyanka to the National Police of Ukraine The National Commission, which regulates energy and public services, on the need to repeal the provisions of the NCRECR, which introduce the subscription fee for transport and gas distribution, such as those that exacerbate the socio-economic situation of citizens and conflict with the principle of ensuring a high level of protection of the rights and interests of natural gas consumers. Jury Derevyanka to the National Anti - Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the criminalization of persons whose unlawful acts and omissions have led to the need for the Japanese party to recover funds on the basis of noncompliance with the Kyoto Protocol with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Dmitri Schenchev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation and the need to restore funding for the Institute of Neurology, Psychiatrics and Drug Addiction of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of the City of Kharkiv in order to prevent its closure. Boris Kozir to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal transfer from state to private property of land of the Recreational Recreational Base of Kiev-Dniprovsky Inter-branch Industrial Railway Transport. Oleg Petrenko, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the investigation into the financing of terrorism and the inaction of the Ukrainian General Security Service in the Odessa region. Sergia Soboljeva to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to stop the illegal actions of officials of the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the State Enterprise "Administrative of Ukrainian Seaports", the Berdian branch of the State Enterprise "Administrative of Ukrainian Maritime Ports" and the management of "Asket Shipping" which violates the rights and interests of the State Enterprise "Berdian Sea Trade Port". Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Odessa District Public Administration, the Odessa City Council on the review of the appeal by Michalap Oleg Aleksandrovitch concerning the objective protection of his rights and the provision of necessary legal and social assistance. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, Odessa District Public Administration, Odessa City Council for an objective review of the appeal of Atamánuk Olena Viktorovna on the need to provide assistance in ensuring the proper, immediate and comprehensive treatment of her teenage son, the Sovereign, with a complex illness abroad. Natalia Agaphonova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of illegal logging in the territory of the National Natural Park of Glossiowski. Alexia Rybkin to Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Viacheslav Kirilenko, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Temporary Occupied Areas and Internally Moved Persons of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the use of measures to preserve the transferred Donetsk Academy of Music named S.S. Prokofiev and Lugans National Academy of Culture and Art Robert Gorvato to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the provision of legal and diplomatic assistance, protection of the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens. Roberta Gorvato to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on proper transport security between 28 April and 2 May 2017. We're going to look at the responses to the requests of the National MP. Please welcome to the floor of National Deputy Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u80	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. On January 17, 2017, during his work visit to Montenegro, the Prime Minister of Ukraine announced his intention to hold political consultations on the appointment of the Minister of Health. Three months later, and what was the outcome of these political consultations in a coalition that is not known today, but there are exactly two factions. Volunteer Uljana Suprun was assigned to serve as Minister of Health in the summer, so no one was accepted for her candidacy. For almost a year, the ministry has no headmaster, and then our government is phenomenal in world politics, and the year is undervalued because there is no full office. All the terms for this position of duty have come out. The question of the appointment of a health minister requires an immediate solution. In what yet civilized country is such a presumptuous and disrespectful attitude toward medicine? On a parliamentary request for urgent admission to the Supreme Council of candidates for appointment as Minister of Health, Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, transferred the responsibility of the Government to the National Deputies, noting that, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of the Coalition of Deputies in the Supreme Council, he made proposals for nominations to the Cabinet of Ministers. And only then, by the Prime Minister's submission, are other members of the Cabinet of Ministers, including the Minister of Health, appointed by the Supreme Council. During the 11 months of the new government’s work, the coalition did not find in the country any candidates for the post of Minister of Health, which could be submitted to Parliament’s approval and which would be responsible for the sector. There is now an opportunity for the coalition of MP factions to demonstrate and prove that it exists and works. Otherwise, honourable fellow MPs, admit that the Supreme Council does not have an active coalition capable of making decisions, including responsibility. Meanwhile, the acting minister of health this week stated that by the end of the month contracts with international organizations and government procurement of medical supplies would be signed for 2017. This means that the next 6 billion dollars of the state budget will be recalculated to foreign banks in the coming month. And that's because last year's purchases have failed completely. During 2016, drugs do not go well. More than that, I would like to say that as of today, 10,000 packs of drugs that are used to treat oncological children have proterminators. Today it needs to be disposed of, it needs to be disposed of for the money of our budget. It turns out that our sick children do not have such drugs. Therefore, in order to be responsible for this work, including the political one for its assignment, we demand that the Supreme Council be appointed as minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u81	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the people's deputy Matvienkov. None. People's Deputy Kaplan. None. National MP Sergei Lechchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u82	Good afternoon, Ukrainians! The topic of the fight against corruption has become a new political fashion and we see how, on the one hand, there are independent anti-corruption bodies, on the other hand, as last week a representative of the National Anti-Corruption Agency, Mrs. Korczak, who was unable to verify any electronic declaration and to answer the question at all why we have Ukrainian corruption in the political body, in Parliament. At the end of last year, I was asked by the MP to do anti-competitive actions by the Lenin cousin company, which belongs to President Prashenko. And what we see around the consideration of this question, it also points out that corruption has opposed all of Ukrainian politics, and the President is not even scratching on tenders that are as small as for today's corruption tip of the figure as 30 million dollars. So the Lenin Cushion Company, it's already behind the new ProZorro system, which has been so much praised, it's learned to bypass this system, and it's won a tender for repairing the Sapphire lifeboat, and it's a tender that has all the signs of conspiracy, fiction. Because the only competitor in this tender for the Lenin cousin company was the company "P.A.I." Shipmanagement," which actually got in touch with the President and his company. Explain why. The Lenin cousin company, which won this tender, is located in Kiev, and this ship will be repaired not in Kiev at all, but on the coast of the Black Sea. And there will be another company called Sudnoverf Ukraine. This company, Sudnoverf Ukraine, is headed by Peter Zhukov, and his wife is headed by the same company Shipmanagement, which was competing with Dustenka and his Lenin cousin on a rescue ship repair tender. So we have all the signs of a non-competitive conspiracy, we have all the signs of corruption, but there was no reaction from the Antimonopoly Committee. I was asked by the MPs -- no response. They tell us that there is no sign of conspiracy, that there is no sufficient basis for testing. Likewise, I remind you, once they answered when the Dutch company Van Oord was expelled from the tender, when one of the deputies of the ruling coalition decided to earn a deep down at South Port. Only after it became a part of the social resonance, as we brought it to all the rostrums and directly talked to the Prime Minister from the government's bed did he call attention to it and the tender was cancelled. We are now also demanding through public announcement that this tender be cancelled and that an honest competition be held so that the President's enterprise does not consider it the only one that has the right to do such jobs in Ukraine. I reiterate that there will be an attack on anti-corruption authorities next week, and Nigel Brown will be reintroduced into Parliament for the "Prashenka Block" initiative to destroy the Anti-Corruption Bureau as the only anti-corruption body in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u83	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oksana Korchinski. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u84	Praise Jesus Christ! I'm clearly not satisfied with the response of the Ministry of Defense to the fact that within 2.5 years they can't change 402 orders, according to which our wounded boys, especially the heavily wounded military personnel, when sent after hospital treatments to the military and medical commissions, are recognized as not fit for military service in times of peace, and in times of war, are partly fit. This makes it impossible to continue to serve and sign contracts with our heroes who have become disabled by protecting the Fatherland. No country in the world is abandoning its military personnel. Napoleon in his day was one of the first of his great buildings after the French Revolution and the War. It's still working! The French army’s best personnel not only lived there but also worked in the French army. All the armies of the world -- the English, the Americans, the French, the Israelis -- care for their military personnel, who have special needs, and unfortunately, our Soviet language has become disabled, protecting the Motherland. We have four and a half thousand of these guys in the country. These are heroes, these are young boys who have gone to the front, who are willing to give their lives (and almost three thousand have given up their lives) and those who have survived sometimes don't understand why their home ministry, why the Armed Forces of Ukraine, why the National Guard and the IMF, using this Soviet formula and this incomprehensible term "anti-terrorist operation", which has been going on for three years, then we refuse to sign contracts when they have unique knowledge when their teams ask them to continue serving. Only because we consider you to be a peaceful time, just because we have this lie, that there is no war, only because in three years of power and our parliament -- and I personally feel very ashamed -- we make the appearance that there is no war. Now I have to collect signatures on the hall to still encourage the speaker of Paris every Tuesday to announce the number of our soldiers, volunteers and volunteers who gave their lives for Ukraine to honor, parliamentarians, their minutes of silence. I can't imagine the Parliament of Knesset, who's been fighting for more than 30 years, who would.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u85	Please give me one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u86	Three minutes, because I have two questions, I have a right to speak for six minutes about fighters in the war. I can't imagine them not getting up every time, sounding a hero, or being disrespected. Moreover, I am convinced that this would discipline Parliament, that it would remind people who are sitting in this room, that there is a war going on every day, that our best boys are entering the Kingdom of Heaven, and those who survive need our help. Not only do they need increased pensions or one - time assistance, which we voted in parliament yesterday. It's in most young boys, 18 years of age, they need implementation, they need to represent their country with dignity, they need to respect their families, they need to work on it, and their experience is invaluable in the Armed Forces. That's why I want to change my 402nd order again, because it's impossible when there's a war, every time there's a peacetime commission, to change and give those of our boys who, in protecting the Motherland, have become disabled I, II, III groups, to be able to sign a contract. You and I don't have enough decent teachers in our military schools. So far, you and I still have our boys at the ATO in the war, and they're only taking civilian positions, and that's a penny. Why can't these guys run a war machine? They wouldn't take bribes, they'd serve a hundred percent better to the country and our Armed Forces than the bribes they're sitting on. Why can’t they be instructors? Why they cannot be in their military units by the very instructors and teachers who would teach the young generation and by their example show that the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Ukrainian National Guard, and former volunteers do not give up their jobs, give them their jobs, honor, and honor. It's a principle for us. Why do we not yet see pictures of our fallen heroes on the Lightboxes in our cities? Why does the whole country look like 99 percent of the population isn't fighting - why can't they make a hole: implement the Social Advertising Act - and 5 percent at least put our heroes in the photos so that when our boys come back from the front or on vacations or in hospitals, they can see that the country respects them and their brothers remember them? In cities, we don't need a common list, we need every city, every village, every neighborhood of our local heroes who have returned from the war, and those who have died, their children, their parents, their parents have seen and said, "This is my relative, and my city, the village is proud of them." Glory to Ukraine! And glory to our heroes!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u87	Thank you. A statement came to the Presidency from the People's Deputy of Dove about his withdrawal from the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko. Dear colleagues, I'm calling a recess in accordance with the Rules. Continuation of the 12-hour session for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room, please. Break's over. I ask the Apparatus to contact the National Deputies with a request to return to the session room, because we are now continuing the session. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now. Don't press the line, please. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the drunkard, we have a "different" section, and now all the national MPs who wish to speak in the discussion under the heading "different" will have that chance. And I understand so much that everyone who wants to come back is back. We've been waiting for the last person in the "different" section to participate. We're announcing a recording to be able to participate in the discussion, in the "different" speeches. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] They're the ones running from the charge that Mrs. Suprun used to run in the park today. Yeah, I hope everyone's got it, and who's not. Dear colleagues! Please, Mr. Krivoshia, you have your word and then we move according to the letter of entry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u89	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, reverend Ukraine! The crooked Gennady Grigorovich, the People's Front faction. Today, in my presentation, I would like to draw attention to how the competitive selections of the relevant heads of state-owned enterprises are taking place, particularly in the case of Odessastandardtralogy. Yesterday at 6 p.m., the Ministry of Economics had a proper competition to replace the leadership of this very state-owned enterprise. As head of the Technical Regulatory Committee and the Committee on Industrial Policy Rules, I would like to focus on this and personally address the Prime Minister of Ukraine, as well as the Minister for Economic Development, as to what, I believe, corruption occurred yesterday at the meeting of this committee. The point is that the respective Odessa district deputies, who pressured the members of the commission, on the competitors, showed a clear position in the support of one of the candidates, in turn violated the relevant rules of meeting of the commission, which is not possible at this stage, and I would like to, and is not legal at all. So I'd like to go to the Prime Minister and the minister who's fit to cancel all the competitive conditions and the competition commission that was sitting yesterday, all the decisions that are going to be taken or maybe already taken today, I don't know yet, and conduct an independent competitive selection of the leader of the relevant state-owned enterprise. As a national MP, I don't allow myself to go to the right competitions and defend the interests or support or criticize any of the candidates. No one, in particular from the local councillors, has any right to make decisions, to push board members or anyone else. So I'm just asking the Prime Minister and the Minister of Economic Development to cancel all those competitive commissions that, like yesterday, apply to the selection of the Chief of Odessastandardmethology and to hold a new session, to vote and to hold an open meeting. At the same time, I would like to ask what is necessary for this company, I have written about this appropriate reference, I need to conduct a proper audit. There's been a lot of disorder in the company, a lot of illegal activities, I think. Only after it's understood that it was stolen would it be necessary to conduct a competitive selection, carry out appropriate analyses, and only then can we understand how it can continue to finance and exist. At the same time, I would like to remind the Prime Minister and the Minister for Economic Development, who has three other state-owned enterprises that have been involved in privatization in the Kyiv region, in the Chernigiv region and in the Plains region. So I wanted these objects to be promised and told them that they had been mistakenly involved. Businesses are profitable, they pay the right amount to the budget. So I would like to have these companies, and they promised me that they would be expelled.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u90	Thank you very much. Please, the People's Deputies of the Aresons.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u91	Vladimir Aresonkov 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you a question that is very important to me. During this week, we began to analyze the work and activities of those newly created law enforcement agencies, which at the time were required and publicized, and at the time were created, which would be carrying out an extremely large work to combat corruption in our country. The director of the agency, NAZK, spoke, and we criticized certain aspects of the work. Above all, we have pointed out and confirmed that we are ready to assist in the work of these organs. But I would like to warn the leaders of these anti-corruption new structures today not to repeat the mistakes of their predecessors. Those who in their time were to be active in the eradication of the extremely negative phenomena that have taken place in our society, instead of doing extremely small, petty things. What's going on today? We are being called from the regions: a number of criminal cases have been committed against rural heads, village heads, members of the local level for voting when the governing bodies in these newly created communities have voted somewhere, and they have been disturbed by their own interests and so on. Look, that's not what we're doing. That's not what we're looking for. I am now again addressing the Attorney General with a statement yesterday that illegal amber production continues in Volina in the Plains, Žitomirščina, including police officers working in the district attorney's offices. Look here and set the order. So I am convinced that we need to support and provide adequate assistance in the work of these bodies, but that we need to adjust them to serious work. In this regard, I would also like to address the Prime Minister of Ukraine and Minister Kutov today, and to remind him that the new State Forest Strategy has not been approved or approved so far. Do we wait until then for a new state policy? When will the mass deforestation stop? Today, dozens of criminal cases are being broken in places, again. Nothing makes sense. But our forest and national wealth continue to be cut off. So I would like to say again that the law enforcement agencies, including the newly created ones, should focus.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u92	Thank you, Your Honor! Now, if you'll excuse me, National Deputy Laszko. He is also given the word of his colleague, Omelchenko, who is just below the list and present in the hall. That's why I'm asking you to turn on Mr. Can for six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u93	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, I would like to inform you of our team's struggle — the Radical Party faction — against the KNCRECR's decision to launch a counter payment. Everyone has already realized that this absolutely corrupt decision pursues one goal -- to get out of the pockets of Ukrainians, the most needy Ukrainians, 24 billion dollars a year to put that money in the pockets of oligarchs. Firtash, Ljowczyn, Boyko in a conspiracy with President Prashenko, because the head of the NCREKP is the head of Roschen company, the protégé of President Dmitry Vuk. They made a totally illegal decision to set up a counter payment. And it turns out that before, the authorities had called for you to save the gas, switch to alternative types of heat. Now it turns out that people are back on fire because people have switched to alternative types of heat. And now they have to pay for the counter no matter how much they consume gas. This is how our people practice the rule along with the oligarchs. Who are Firthash, Ljovczyn, and Boyko? These are the pillars, these are the cashiers, they're the corrupters of the Yanukovich gang. They were given public gas distribution networks, national gas distribution networks, many years ago, because most of the country’s gas pipelines were built at the expense of citizens. Then the slips took them away for free, and now Firtash, Ljovczyn, and Boyko use them for free. Some of you, my dear radios, TVs, my dear Ukrainians, will ask the question: How is it possible for them to have government property, to use gas distribution networks in a corrupt way, and to have a new government? The answer is simple, because you have entered into a corrupt conspiracy with President Dustenk. Each of you has heard of the secret Vienna deal between oligarchus Firthash and the candidate of President Prashenko at the time. That's the effect of this agreement that this Yanukowice bank, instead of sitting in prison, Boyko, who stole half a billion dollars from oil and gas surpluses, the children in the kindergarten know about this shameful story, Ljovczyn, who's involved in the Maydan movement, they're instead of sitting in jail, they're sitting in the Supreme Council, they're using immunity, they're using their power to cover up, because they're robbing Ukrainians, just like Janukovich, just like today, by sharing with President Prashenko and today's government. When we saw this affair, you see that the Radical Party team is the only one who went up to fight this tariff genocide. We have three requirements. The first is the cancellation of payment for the use of counters. The NCRECR has stopped its decision under pressure. But that's not enough. We demand that this decision be overturned. And that's why on Monday, April 10th, the Radical Party faction in its entirety goes to the NCRECR. We shake the soul out of this Roscheng wolf, we take off his corrupt sheep's skin under which he hides, and each of you will see this corrupt inward. This is the inside they're charging at the expense of the Ukrainians. Our second requirement is to return to the state administration of public gas distribution networks and national ownership, which is built at the expense of Ukrainians, at the expense of peasants. On Wednesday we were at a government meeting, Prime Minister Groissman gave a mandate to the Antimonopoly Committee and other bodies, and I hope that this commission will be immediately executed by both state and national gas distribution networks will be restored to state ownership. Enough Firtash, Ljovcken, and Boyka to charge their own pockets at the expense of the Ukrainians. And our third requirement. This is the resignation of the corrupt composition of the NCREKP and the resignation of the Head of the NCREKP Wolf. We went to the President's Administration yesterday, unfortunately we were not able to meet with the President, but President Igor Lvivitch Rainin's head of administration promised us this meeting would be. We insist on meeting the Radical Party faction with President Prashenko to ask him to resign. The Head of the NCREKP is President Dustenk's columnist. So President Poroshenko and today’s authorities are fully responsible for the country’s robbery. Especially what I'd like to pay attention to. You heard, at the beginning of the week, I was speaking to our colleagues, to Julia Timoshenko, asking to join us in our fight. Unfortunately, we do not see Julius Volodymyrna near us. We do not see Julia helping us to save the Ukrainians from the robbery of Dusty and from the robbery of power. According to my information, Julia Volodymyrna has been abroad for a week. I think that at a time when wolves in sheep's hides are roschenko, when President Poshenko robs Ukrainians, we must not be abroad, and we must be here to stop the plundering policy of this power. And finally, the key to overcoming poverty is to raise the income of Ukrainians. That's why we demand that the government raise pensions and raise wages. We have registered the relevant bill in the Supreme Council and we demand its vote and acceptance. Enough to keep Ukrainians beggars, give people money and a normal life, and Ukrainians deserve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u94	Please, National Deputy Odarchenko of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u95	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear Ukrainians, here the previous speaker was trying to accuse Julia Timoshenko of not fighting for tariff cuts. I would like to remind you, dear friends, that this particular speaker was the 301st, 301st person to vote in the criminal regime of Yanukovich for changes to the Constitution. I want everyone to remember this figure 301 and 301 is Lazko, who voted to change the Constitution and President Janukovic was able to usurp the power that led to today's war. Today, it is possible to speak up and criticize different politicians. But remember, Oleg, how you, for which money you took and pressed that button when you changed the Constitution. This is a disgrace to all the people of Ukraine. I want to remind all the Ukrainians that it was Timoshenko, when she was fighting Firtash, who was condemned by Yanukovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u96	I'm asking you to stop the mess.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u97	and was in prison for 2.5 years. Now it's the pseudopolitics that are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u98	Turn off the microphone, please. I want to go to the session room right now, and I want to go to the session room. If the Radical Party in full stock doesn't sit in its seats right now, I'll close the meeting. If the Radical Party doesn't sit in its seats right now, I'll close the session. You have one minute. Please add three minutes to Odarchenko. Thank you. If there's another mess in the room, I'll close the meeting. Odarchenko added 3 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I'm hoping that these events are the ones that show that the radical party's position is not genuine. They are trying to counter such criticism and allow the Ukrainians to forget the past actions that have led, including the war in Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] And now I'd like to speak on another occasion. I would like to refer to the prosecutor of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, and draw his attention to the actions of the Herson City Head of Santa Claus, who, contrary to the laws of Ukraine, has decided to increase the fares. The city’s head signed an order that increased the cost of a trip from 3 to 5 dollars. There was no decision by the executive to legally confirm such an increase in tariffs. The district attorney’s office has violated a criminal case under article 366, 365, but despite the simplicity of the case, it has not been investigated so far, and Santa Claus is not suspected. Taking advantage of my opportunity to speak out of this rostrum, I would like to ask Yuri Vitaliyovich to pay attention to the actions of the Herson District Attorney's Office and encourage them to take constructive and decisive action to investigate this case. And, dear fellows, here I have to recall once again the sincerity or insincereness of this party. And when all the political parties in the Herson City Council voted in favour of these crimes of the city’s head, the Radical Party did not give. I just gave you one vote. This is a confirmation that he is shouting from the rostrum, accusing his people, and in places of crime, cooperating with corrupters, and doing nothing to reduce tariffs. I want you to pay attention not to buying eye contact, as if it were a beautiful performance, which suggests that it is an unbreakable struggle. The only faction in the Hersonian City Council did not support the reduction of fares. I appeal to all Hersonians to remember and to see who is fighting for whom. Yuri Vitaliyovich, once again, I would like to point out that the prosecution must investigate sensitive issues related to the illegal increase in tariffs and take decisive action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, most of all today, I want to be the chairman of the sessionary session of the Ukrainian European Parliament, not the lecturer in a colony for heavy teens named Makarenko. So I'm asking that we all respect each other. I will give a reply to the honourable colleague of Deputies Laysch when all of your distinguished colleagues from all the factions who, as my presiding officer, demand compliance with the Rules: Irina, behave in accordance with the Rules. And I now give the floor, please, to the distinguished Lord of the Fatherland faction Lucenko Igoru. And I very much ask you not to mention any factions, not to mention any surnames, to remember that today is a great festival, only when the good news is from the mouth of the people’s deputies to be borne by the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u101	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear Ukrainians, well, first of all, I would like to address all those who consider themselves to be in opposition to this power, to engage not in a mutual struggle, but in a mutual union. Fighting each other is not going to help us achieve our goals. What would I like to say to all Ukrainians? Three weeks ago, the State of Ukraine, on behalf of all of us, filed a lawsuit before the International Court of Justice concerning Russia's non-execution of legislation. International treaties to prevent the financing of terrorism. What was that all about? About the Russian banks that we have here in so many in Ukraine, by the way, they're involved in financing terrorists in eastern Ukraine. This practice is common in Russia when pro-Russian banks raise funds for militias, for their weapons, for their equipment. As a result, they help kill Ukrainians. Ukraine did the right thing by turning to an international court. But I've asked as a national deputy a written question to the Ministry of Justice: please tell me which banks are involved in your lawsuit, because that said, what is the fact? Instead, I got the answer that this is classified information, that it only knows the BSI and that "we're not going to give you this information." I call on the Ukrainian Security Service, I call on the Ministry of Justice, I call on, in fact, everyone who has any relation to this issue, please disclose this information. At least the Ukrainians need to know what this lawsuit is about, which banks that are here, I repeat, in large numbers that are involved in terrorists. And I'll tell you that it's very easy to find: you take Google, you're looking for help from the militia. And it says, "Outstorggbank," "Alpha Bank," "Sberbank," -- all the banks that we have here in Krestatika, downtown Kiev, are running their business freely. So the question is, why are we complaining about an international court against Russian banks and not doing anything about these banks? Instead, Mrs. Gontareva, instead of Mrs. Rozkova, keeps calling on the police, other law enforcement agencies asking them to protect these banks, calling on people not to touch these banks. What's going on?Oh, my God! I understand that we're going to appeal to Pottery and Pink Free, so I've asked the National Bank Council, each of the members to ask this question: how do we get sanctions against these Russian banks that we're complaining to international society that they actually feel that we're asking them to stop financing terrorism, stop breaking international agreements? Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u102	Thank you, colleague. And please, now the people's deputy Matkovsky is handing the word to his colleague Sporish. Then Chumak, and then the Fish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u103	Dear national deputies, the distinguished Presidency, indeed, today is the great festival of the Annunciation. And I think we need to unite today. And we must, all the opposition forces, unite around one enemy -- that's Russia, that's Putina, and not one against the other here, we're going to force, force and beat our own. It's very common today. Let us unite and give if we defeat the enemy, then we can, indeed. Then we'll be able to fight each other for power. I would very much like us to understand each other today and to unite around the Ukrainian people. You know, today, besides the Annunciation, is World Health Day. And it's a great pleasure that we've finally been brought together by the Ministry of Health, which is Ulyssa Suprun, who has spent a great physical day today and has shown that only physical culture and sports can overcome all these pharmacies, these drugs and so on, because today we have to exercise and sport and forget about these pharmacies. This is especially for young people. And right today, there were thousands of people here near the Supreme Council in the square who were overseeing and doing everything they could to show to the young generation. And thank God that many people and deputies came, who were also there, and we set an example for all children. But I wanted to ask Ulysses Suprun today, and I said that these are 41-way drugs that came to treatment from abroad for our people so they wouldn't turn into corruption. Because every pharmacy that makes these drugs today, every doctor can make a prescription, and these drugs can be simple. Just give up. betray anyone who is sick, not sick, and they can just get them, and then speculate. This is question number one, and we have to fix it. Because when you go to the county, people are like, "Yes, indeed, there are drugs, they've gone to pharmacies." But who knows who they'll turn to? This is where control should be and question number one in this. I still wanted to stop, a few words, at a loss for Ukraine. Dear Ukrainians! We know that when there was no visa, everyone here said to politicians, politicians, that "Oh, that's bad, look, they're fooling us" and other things. And when there is a car, it turns out that it is no longer necessary. Don't believe it. The carnage is necessary for Ukraine. It is necessary for Ukrainians to see and seek the direction of European development. And even when Ukrainians go to pay for 2-3 months, they can use it. We can use and support our athletes when European competitions are going on and so forth, because we can now drive and support our team. And to the conclusion. I'd like to speak to the Deputy Prime Minister, the Ministry of Agrarian Politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u104	Thank you. It's just a lot of people who want to talk. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Please, National Deputy Chumak, give him the word Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u105	Good afternoon, citizens of honour, citizens of Ukraine! Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, Kiev, Dniprovsky district You see the very interesting things that happen in the Ukrainian Parliament when representatives of different political parties compete for the love of the people, when every political party member shouts about the need to cancel both Rotterdam Plus and the subscription for gas and all that sort of stuff, the increase in tariffs and so on. You know, respectable citizens, it's not a problem, it's a reason, the reason is that the problem is a completely different situation. Every political party in our Parliament today, when it went to the elections, promised you political reform, and political reform promised all political parties since 2004. They promised to cancel the parliamentary immunity, they promised to change electoral legislation, they promised to adopt the President's Impeachment Act, they promised to adopt the Referendum Act, the Democratic Referendum Act. Where? None. In his pre-election programme and President Poshenko, it was written that, "I promise to do everything I can to ensure that the 2014 elections are held in proportion to the open-list system." Where are these laws? They're gone. The same was written in the Coalition Agreement, which was signed by all the factions that are here today in the Democratic Parliament, starting with Self-Help, starting with "The Fatherland," from the Lachka Party, the People's Front" and the BPP. Where are these laws? They're all, they're all registered, but no political power wants to do that, because it's not comfortable with it, and most of these parties are just, you know, the branches of the oligarchic groups, not all of them, but most of them are the branches of the oligarchic groups. That's why every Tuesday, citizens of Ukraine, under the Supreme Council, under the walls of the Supreme Council, young political parties: "Democratic Alliance", "Citizen Position", "Willa", the civil movement "The Wave" are holding a rally in support of the change of electoral legislation. The last rally came up with such a resolution, which was sent to President Peter Prashenko and the Head of the Supreme Council, demanding that all the laws laid down in their pre-election promises be immediately reviewed in the Supreme Council. I want to remind you that I want to be your pill, your respectable citizens, your sclerosis pill, so that all of you, whenever you go to the elections, will remember what your politicians promised you and will see if they have fulfilled what they promised you. So I invite all of April 11 here before the Supreme Council to ask all these politicians again about their fulfillment of their promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u106	Thank you. Please, National Fisherman. We invite you to the floor, and then to the Vineyard.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, we rejoice in the visalessness, but we are still far from the values of Europe. Ukraine has become a police state. There was no such violence in Yanukovich’s time. The government has begun a series of repressions against the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Yesterday, with gross violations of the law, a number of searches were carried out. The searches were conducted at the Dnipropetrov Center of the Radical Party in my state assistants, in people I don't know or even people I don't know. All searches were carried out with gross violations of existing legislation. Neither lawyers nor even national deputies were allowed to search. And only under public pressure have some lawyers been able to access these premises. I would like to point out that exactly two months ago, it was the same investigators for the same criminal cases that were closed under the screams of "disgusting!" By the time Janukovitch, such searches had already been carried out. Special cynicism was when one of Sergio White’s company’s directors, the same director who had been stabbed to death before the new year, was broken down and searched. Strange things: Crimes of murder are not investigated, but ordering criminal cases are being investigated at a moment’s notice. In fact, we think it's the revenge of the Radical Party for our principled position and the fight against the oligarchs against people on dragon tariffs, the blocking of the rostrum, the principle of our position in the National Bank and the lack of a strategy to renew confidence in the banking system. For our principled position and non-voting on the KPC changes that the Attorney General's Office today, as we say, can shoot anyone in threes. And these are not unique examples. I want to give another vivid example of similar pressure on the innovative company YU-CONTROL, which uses new technologies to process open data. They allow society to see the corruption of officials and rapists, the real failure to pay taxes. There's a lot of "assaults" on it, too. And so many examples. Unfortunately, today the country is becoming a police state. Small and medium-sized businesses are unable to develop. And in some cases, the authorities are also trying to get rid of that business by raiding it. That is why we plan to initiate the legislative restriction of this system of things and stop persecuting people for fabricated criminal cases. Having the opportunity to charge illegal searches and illegal suspicions. I want to address you, my dear fellows, and I want to ask the President to stop this delusion and allow small and medium-sized businesses to develop in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u108	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Lozový and then National Deputy Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u109	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. The noblest of all is work. Man is made for work. The work of man makes a man, not Alosha Hotcharenko. And what do we see? At a time when the authorities abuse the working people, the great advocate of the working people, the protector in the paws, Mrs. Timoshenko. I'll explain why the deputy from her faction didn't say where she was. Because in the plenary week, when she had to go to work, she flew to Nice, where she met criminals of the Yanukovich regime, the oligarchs of Ljevocchen and Oneshchenk (Kadirov) who had caused billions of dollars in labour to the Ukrainian people. And she's resting there in the Sun Nice instead. Three with oligarchs instead of protecting people like our iron team does. What's going on now? Now the authorities are pushing the Labour Code into a second reading. In fact, this Labour Code restores to Ukraine a fortress that was abolished 156 years ago. What does modern - day authority want? It's just some kind of damage to people. So, articles 92-93 significantly increase the number of grounds for dismissal by substantially narrowing down the number of reasons why layoffs have to be accepted by trade unions, with the same draft Labour Code essentially allowing slum-breakers to replace real trade. Next, just like I'm about to show myself. Look what's going on in the first place. Article 92 also allows the employer to release the employee, to release the worker for committing an immoral act. And there's no saying that it's an 'amoral act'. The employer can determine for himself what he thinks is an immoral act and set a person free in a sense. As far as I'm concerned, the immoral act is what this authority is doing, what President Prashenko is doing with his subscription, with the Labour Code, trying to sell Ukrainian land without lifting his pension, without raising his salary, and thus harassing the people of the Labour Code. This is an immoral act. Keep listening. Article 158 allows an employer to force an employee to work on the weekend without extra pay, simply placing him on the spot. Article 65 allows an employer to transfer an employee from one city to another without his consent. A person works, for example, in Chernigov, is sent to the Plain and is not even asked. Article 108 of the project rudely deprives single mothers of social protection and allows them to be released at any request of the employer. It's an open-minded abuse of the working people, it's a return to the fortification and it's a stump and it's impossible to let that happen. And our team won't let that happen. Death to all who are hindering the freedom of the working people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u110	Please, National Deputy Shurm. And prepare for the National Deputy of Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u111	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Until today, I was prompted by a competition to replace the post of chief physician at the primary children's hospital in Ukraine, OHMATTIT. In an effort to complete this position, the selection criteria were, in principle, correct: 5 years, at least 5 years in management, expertise, and professional expertise. And it was an effort to really find a suitable replacement for the person who for decades led this institution and made it really one that helps children. Why do I pay attention to the fact? When we make such demands to the head doctor of one of the hospitals in Ukraine, I feel that the same requirements should be applied to those in charge of the department. The effectiveness of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in reforming the health system will depend on the professions of those who make decisions. Considering that, over the past year, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been unfulfilled because of the lack of employment of the Minister of Health, my colleagues and I have registered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers (on professional requirements for members of the Cabinet of Ministers). Our strong belief is that the minister of health, like the chief physician, has the right to be the person who has the appropriate vocational education not less than a master’s degree, has the experience of working in managerial positions for at least five years, is a Ukrainian citizen and speaks Ukrainian. When we talk about professionalism, we need to understand that a person who makes decisions that depend on health, the lives of Ukrainian citizens, should be guided not only by strong methods but also by dictatorial decision - making. Over the course of the year, unfortunately, a person temporarily serving as minister did not conduct any colleges of the Ministry of Health, nor did he meet with our directors of the regional health system. These people are working in a system that is imperfect, but they have experience, and they probably would have done better to make decisions for the citizen of Suprun than people who are not professional today, but who are dating her. We have been motivated by this decision and by the fact that the U.K. citizen's minister of health was also governed by it, and today, the reform of emergency assistance is managed by an accountant after the Institute of Commerce and Economics. Reform will be when it is done by professional people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u112	Thank you. Please, the next National Deputy Bondar to whom Benjuzhenko gives the floor. Comrade Benjuzhenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u113	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. I would like to address the Ukrainians, welcome the Festival with the Annunciation and address, first of all, the Parbija Andrija Volodymyrovich, to be included in the agenda on Monday at the Conciliation Council 6212, a bill that, thanks to you, the honourable people's deputies, was included in the agenda of the day session. Please include it for the next plenary week to vote because the bill is very much needed. Once again, this bill plans to impose a moratorium on the bankruptcy of state-owned industrial enterprises by 1 January 2019. Unfortunately, from the third attempt so far, it was possible to include it in the order of the day session, 226 at least got the votes just right, I will address my colleagues, the deputies, just asking how it will be included to vote and give, as much as possible, as the largest votes for it. Because, once again, in 2017, the budget invested 1 billion under state guarantees for upgrading and purchasing equipment for coal mines and state-owned coal companies. And somehow it looks wrong when these bills come in, people start making contracts, making tenders through ProZorro, and at that time they're blocking these bills, and the money is being taken away. I will therefore ask the people's deputies if Bill 6212 is included next week to gather and vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u114	Thank you, Your Honor! Please, the word of Teteruku, to which his colleague Daniel’s word is given. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u115	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, the distinguished Ukrainian people! During the entire period of existence, the Ukrainian State suffered Russian aggression. This has resulted both in repression and famine on our land and in the torture of Ukrainian intelligence. But in today’s history, we have suffered from open Russian aggression for the past three years. And it is in this Parliament that we have done a great deal to make our Armed Forces of Ukraine powerful and capable of curbing Russian aggression. And today our Armed Forces are properly funded, equipped, our military-industrial complexes are making the technology that is supplied to the military. And we're able to contain Russian technology, Russian military units that are now in temporarily occupied territories. But at the same time, in three years, our country suffers from a completely uncontrollable Ukrainian state of information space. It is home to Russian propaganda and oligarchs. They are the ones who are stockpiling information space with negative effects on the activities of the Ukrainian authorities, which are countering Russian aggression. It is our information policy that can be said that it is missing, that it has not happened. And in my opinion, in my opinion, we need to see failures in the introduction of our nation's information policy, we need to pay attention in Parliament to the absence of active opposition or action in the information space. Our nation should learn to defend itself not only in the field of combat by means of the Ukrainian army, but we should also take completely serious, balanced and adequate steps to counter Russian propaganda, which is now prevalent and feels free in the Ukrainian information space. In my view, the activities of the Minister of Information Policy deserve careful consideration by our Parliament. And I think it's better for him to make a bold decision and get out of office, because over the course of this time, by summarizing the work of the Minister of Information Policy, we can sum up the fact that the job is absolutely flawed. And our nation doesn't feel protected in information space. And my very strong belief is that we are suffering from Russian aggression, which has mentality, including Ukrainians. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u116	Thank you. I am not adding a word to anyone today, because many are willing to speak. Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Teteruk. Please, People's Deputy Barna, then Mosiyczuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u117	I was approached by the electorate. Good afternoon, reverend Ukrainian people! I was approached by the electorates of my district, the producers of mineral fertilizer deficits in Ukraine. As a result of the political war over the economic spheres of influence between the leaders of some political forces and clans, there was a situation that halted mineral fertilizer factories in Ukraine in the Plains and Chercas. As a result of the suspension, Ukrainians import mineral fertilizers from Russia. So obviously, the interesting thing is that Ukrainian factories are standing, the workers are out of work, there's no local and state budgets, and our crops are forced by this free. The activities of some oligarchic clans, politicians to finance the economy of Russia. The second question is about the operation of the Easter concert. In three years, there has been no reform of the sector. Instead, we've been given free administration, inappropriate activity, and the continuation of the corruption schemes of Ivanichenko-Labutin. I have an appeal to the Prime Minister for the immediate elimination of this concert, regarding how it led to the total destruction of the Ukraine's alcohol industry, instead of leading to a clear increase in the "left" production of alcohol and counterfeit alcohol products online. The directors of mergers need to be changed immediately and new ones appointed by agreement with the local executive authorities in order to legalize the production of alcohol that will take place on new economic grounds. Both the law enforcement agencies and the fiscal services, I'm asking them to finally determine whether they're fighting these violations, whether they're covering and leading the production of counterfeit products. Well, now, let's address the members of the Supreme Council, my colleagues. Yesterday's decision by the European Parliament is an expression of respect for the Ukrainian people and our defenders who defend not only our independence but all of Ukraine. And the state, and the whole of Europe. This is a confirmation that we are, in fact, implementing reforms, that we are making a European choice at the price of our heroes' shed blood in the east. So once again, remember the price we got for the European choice, the price we now stand for our independence, the fact that it was young people in Euromaida that were ahead of European choice, and the beating of the entire Ukrainian people. Remember this and do not waste. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u118	Please, National Deputy Lazko. And get ready for Martovitchki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u119	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. This week, Ukraine was horrified to learn the text of a new memorandum with the International Monetary Fund. In exchange for a billion dollars, the authorities assumed anti - Ukrainian dragon commitments, such as an increase in retirement age and land sales. We are urged to sell the land because there is going to be an effective owner and investor in Ukraine. You're lying! When the government launches the land market today, Ukrainians will cease to be masters of their land, Ukrainian peasants, our children, grandchildren, and great - grandchildren will walk on their own land. Because latifundins will come, corporations will come to plant technical crops, and they will go to the light bulb and social sphere, and animal farming, and all the other fields. It's their job to make quick money. That is why we demand: Hands off the Ukrainian land! The Radical Party team not only protects Ukrainian interests, but also protects Ukrainian peasant interests. Two weeks ago, we registered in Parliament changes to the Constitution of Ukraine (article 41), where we suggest that agriculture is the foundation of the agricultural system of Ukraine. For a Ukrainian farmer to own our Ukrainian land. 175 Ukrainian national deputies signed under amendments to the Constitution so that Ukrainian farmers could be farmers on their land. Unfortunately, despite my appeal to the distinguished colleagues of the Fatherland faction, Julius Timoshenko and the Fatherland faction refused to sign under amendments to the Constitution, so that the Ukrainian farmer could be the master of the land. This surprised me because my distinguished colleague, Julia Timoshenko, talks about the support of farmers all the time. But as we first see, Timoshenko and the lie are twin siblings. Because today, while in power as Prime Minister, Yulia Timoshenko registered the 2143 Land Market Bill on February 28, 2008. We read article 3 of this bill: "The subjects of the land market are foreign citizens and persons without citizenship, foreign legal persons and foreign states." As Prime Minister, two months after Timoshenko's appointment, she submitted to the Supreme Council a draft law on land markets to make foreigners buy our land so that Ukrainian peasants can walk in bars, today she refused to sign from the changes to the Constitution so that the farmer could be the owner of her land, and says that she supports the Ukrainians. Brachet, as always. We have to stop this lie and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u120	Please, the next national MP, Martovitchki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u121	Arthur Martovicki, 36th constituency, Pavlovgradščina Dear Ukrainian citizens, the issue of land management has been extremely relevant for both land users and local communities in our country for many years. I have received numerous requests from public organizations, farms requesting support for amendments to the Ukrainian Land Code on the competence of government authorities in land administration and the transfer of designated functions to the level of rural councils, as well as support for the draft Law (No. 3510) on the assignment of state property land outside the boundaries of the population to the communal property of the united territorial communities. In turn, the rental of state and municipal property is an integral part of the economic activity of any agricultural producer. In accordance with article 122 of the Ukrainian Land Code, the executive authority on land issues in the field of land relations and its territorial authorities shall transfer land areas of the agricultural assignment of state property to ownership or use for all purposes. By January 1, 2013, district government administrations had been responsible for land off-site. The arrangement for the adoption of the appropriate management of the issues mentioned was mandatory agreement with the rural councils. As of today, land management issues have been raised from the district level to the district level, resulting in the central executive authority on land issues and its territorial authorities not even placing rural and rural councils on the knowledge of land allocations to individuals or legal persons for private property and use, thereby ignoring the interests of the territorial communities. Also, legislation does not define the fate of the logging community, whose plantings require care and protection. The uncontrolled destruction of forests that has taken place today has contributed to the spread of such a shameful phenomenon as wind erosion, which has always caused great damage to peasants. The best way to do this would be to secure the forests by farming to the lands to which they belong. Therefore, the adoption of Law 3,510 is a requirement of time, for after its acceptance of municipal property, all lands of state property will be placed outside populated areas within the territory of the united territorial communities. In this way they will be given the right to change the target assignment of private property land and to implement a mechanism to clarify the boundaries of the territorial communities in the event of uncertainty or dispute over such boundaries that it will undoubtedly contribute to the creation of new and existing united communities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u122	Thank you. Please, the national deputy of Teteruk conveys the word of Krivoshei. The guilty one's saying the word. One of you was speaking, the other one was speaking. I'm going to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u123	Thank you. Good day again, dear fellows. Oleg Valeriyovich, thank you for making the remarks, but all according to the Rules. Dear colleagues, I would like to take another look at what I was talking about in my first speech today, and at the same time, to focus on the following. There is one problem that we have come up with since the period of criminal power, when few have paid attention to how Ukraine is represented at the European world level. So I would just like to remind you that in 2006, there was actually a political decision taken by the Central Secretariat of the International Organization for ISO Standardization in Geneva, where Ukraine was given the great privilege of leading one of the technical committees of this organization, namely, the technical committee of the ISO/TC 218 on wood. This step on the part of international partners is a demonstration of confidence in Ukraine and a definition of its professional ability. At the same time, in the process of fruitful cooperation in this committee, our representatives, who represent Ukraine at an international level, are quite serious. They called, they called me. Attention is drawn to the fact that in October of this year, according to the International Standardization Organization Rules, the ISO system itself, the committee meeting, 218 of the ISO System Committee and it is to be held in Ukraine. It's a pretty important international event. Given that Ukraine has actually received and will in the future receive a visa-free regime, we understand the importance of an international European level as a player of Ukraine in this field, I would like to address it to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister, the Minister of Profiles for the Agri-Industry Complex, that we should ensure a quality meeting at the international level of that committee. I would like to point out that representatives from 14 countries are scheduled to attend the meeting, including the United States of America, Canada, France, China, Malaysia, Japan, South Korea, Belarus, Austria, Germany, Sweden, and Serbia. I wanted to point out, at the same time, that there are 63 countries today in ISO, 23 of them, 26 active participants and 37 observer countries. Today, for example, the ISO Committee 218 is responsible for 57 international ISO standards. That is, Ukraine has the full, full right and authority to adopt at the international level 57 appropriate international standards. And for today, our representatives, these last 10 years, are doing it. Therefore, our duty, our duty to Parliament, our duty to coalition, our duty to the Prime Minister and to the government as a whole is to support this initiative. To make sure that Ukraine actually shows a fairly high level in October of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u124	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Moseschuk. And then Mrs. Koscheva.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u125	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainian people! Yesterday, the National MP for several appeals, the former head of the Žitomirski District Council, the leader of the Fatherland Party in Žitomirščina, said literally: "In Kiev, we have our own bark, and in Zitomir, we have our own." So I'd like to talk about these troughs, because the representatives of this political force, you see, are used to grunting around these troughs. Labunska, as the head of the district council, silently gave six lands in the Oleuvian region, including the head of his Kotsu faction, under the guise of amber. Gived in what way? By giving a silent consent. And what I'm asking is what I'm asking from the rostrum right now is that I consider my MP's request to the NABU, the GPU and the Ukrainian Security Service because there's no state authority there, thanks to Labunski. Next. Did no one forget the roaring representatives of this political force of the Hubsky and Osik in Kiev? And how much land was stolen here? Did no one forget how Julia Volodymyrna herself sold the position of Minister of Ecology to corruptioner Oneshenko (Cadir)? That's what they're going to do next to this trough. Again, but Julia Volodymyrna herself? And she's not in the country, she's gone back to the trough, she's in Nice, she's not in Parliament, she's outside the country. This is the love of these worlds, the love of the Korah, and they no longer hide it. And finally, going back to the subject of amber. I would like to draw the attention of the law enforcement agencies of the Plains, Volina and Zitomirsk to what is happening in the amber areas. There, in fact, is a war, in Olevsk, where Labunsk was encumbering the land with its willful decisions at the trough, shooting people, killing people. I call on law enforcement authorities to take immediate action, not just against illegal amber miners, but against those who cover them to such swans and to those who sit near the trough. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u126	Please, Mrs. Kocheljeva's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u127	Honourable Ukrainians, respected colleagues, have come to me, as the Ukrainian national deputy, with numerous appeals from Ukrainian citizens about the health reform that is being carried out by today’s authorities, leading to an unsupervised increase in drug prices. People with diabetes have no opportunity to buy insulin on their own, and the State has undertaken to provide insulin for diabetics and does not properly perform its duties. Last year, the Court of Auditors conducted an evaluation of the efficiency of using insulin and established that the MoH did not ensure the use of financial resources allocated to the treatment of patients with diabetes, as a result of which no one took any responsibility. I would like to remind you that the number of such patients on official records exceeds 1.2 million Ukrainians. For example, the State Budget Act 2017, in the form of budget expenditure, provides for a health grant from the state budget to local budgets for the Kharkiv region with a target of 55% less than necessary for the treatment of patients with diabetes mellitus and not with a sugar budget of 49.5 million dollars per minute. As reported by the health authorities of Kharkiv District Administration, the need is 113 million dollars. On the MP's appeal about the need for an increase in the public budget for insulin purchase, the authorities answer that local budgets are being self-managed because they have received additional financial resources, including through the transfer of individual taxes from the state budget. In Ukraine, some 830 million dollars should be additionally funded from local budgets, since in Ukraine the overall need for insulin supplies is about one and a half billion dollars. No reform excuses the critical situation in the area of the welfare of people with diabetes. In this year 2017, the government budget provides for a government-funded medical subsidy to local budgets of about 642 million dollars, which covers a total of 43% across Ukraine. In addition, the approved ILO reference prices were 40 percent higher than the prices at which local authorities had purchased in the past year, and for each area they were essentially 35-50 million dollars. In order to provide 100% for diabetes patients with insulin, it is necessary to increase their spending by 800 million dollars on the State budget and to amend the Ukrainian Budget Code by providing for the cost of treatment for patients with diabetes mellitus and non-sugar in full 100% of their needs. Thus, the faction of the Radical Party and I, as a national deputy, will initiate appropriate changes, since insulin is no longer a health concern for such patients.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u128	Thank you. Please give the following address to the Opanasenka People's Deputy. Ah, he says, I'm sorry, Yegor Sobolev. Jegor warned. Then Linko and Silantiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u129	For the third month without interruptions, without holidays, during the day, at night, all days of the week, volunteers, active citizens, veterans of this war for independence themselves stop trading in occupied areas. After the decision of the National Security and Defence Council, which legitimized the blockade of trade with occupied territories, boys, girls, women, men exercise public control to ensure that the decision is implemented. And we've got a lot of signals that, unfortunately, the security forces of the Donetsk district are trying to keep the occupied areas in secret at night, using the roads they're driving people out of so that no one can see. This brings us, the whole Parliament, back to a task that we haven't decided on: passing the Law on Interimly Occupied Territories. I hope that there is no man in this room who wants to give power to the invader for the new attacks on our land, for the new killings of our people. But he was going to! As national MPs, we have to help our nation, our citizens, and adopt a law that will put outside the law trade in occupied territories and make it impossible to return these shameful operations under no circumstances. It is important that those who think that people are tired, that people are tired, that they can be arranged somehow, that they understand that they will not. Moreover, if Parliament, if the state as a whole is delayed in making the necessary decisions, boys and girls, men and women will move on. They have taken responsibility more than once since the spring of 2014, when they saved the independence of this state, when the state was helpless or helpless. I very much ask Parliament not to lead people to assume the functions of the state again, stopping the occupation from where the state allows it to pass. Let's pass the Act on occupied territories and show that we are the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u130	Please, People's Deputy Linko. Then Silantiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u131	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! On April 1st of this year, as a joke, there must have been a new ceasefire agreement on the front lines with the Russians, and unfortunately, as always, this cease-fire did not happen. Only in the last days, yesterday five wounded, several wounded civilians, were killed by our soldiers. So we realize that we've probably had those dates since the tenths already, and there might still be arrangements, but they'll never be fulfilled. They won't be executed until we give the teeth to the Russian Federation, the Russian invaders. As did the case today in Syria, when, in response to the chemical attacks of tyrant Assad and his friend Putin, the United States struck with missiles. The same thing had to be done three years ago when Donbas was taken away from Ukraine when Crimea was seized, occupied when part of Georgia was occupied. Only such an answer and only such a reaction from an international society, the entire civilized world against terrorism, can stop their aggression. The world today needs to recognize and accept the military doctrine against terrorists, provided that the main sponsor and donor of terrorism today is, in fact, not Islamic terrorist organizations, but the Russian Federation. This needs to be understood by the whole world, today's threat, the terrorism they're talking about, by the way, and in the Kiev security forum, where it's very important to point out the following, what our leader has pointed out today when we speak about security conditions, the agreements have to be implemented, otherwise the world will fall apart. Those terms, the arrangements at the signing of the Budapest Memorandum, when we were guaranteed security for giving up nuclear weapons that were broken in the world. Security conditions are totally not maintained, and this indicates that war will continue, that aggression will continue to grow, because Russia is leading such policies. We've been given a visa to Europe -- that's very good, that's good news, but we're expecting more, we're expecting military support. And so last plenary week, at the initiative of the Radical Party, Parliament made a historic decision to appeal to the U.S. Congress to make a direct military agreement with the United States. Such a covenant is with 16 countries that are in a state of war or are at risk of war. And in just the last year, a country like Israel, the United States, has provided $38 billion -- that's more than the entire Ukrainian budget. If Ukraine could fight Russia with such a budget, we would have a completely different army, a different technique. So at all levels of international, in all forums and meetings, we need to stress that security guarantees must be maintained and that Ukraine needs our support because Ukraine is holding the front of civilization against the old Soviets, Asians and against all the negative things that are associated with Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u132	Please, the People's Deputies of Silantiev now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u133	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Lacha. Dear Ukrainian citizens, dear colleagues, I ask your attention because my speech will relate to the health and safety of children and adolescents living in Ukraine. So today, more than just war has come to us from Russia. In the last week, he's been taking turns in Ukraine called the "Blue Whale" Suicide Game. A few weeks ago, a ten - year - old girl from Slavotic in broad daylight jumped in front of the passersby from nine stories — and she was miraculously alive. At the jump site, there was a sign that the girl left before the suicide attempt: "I love you, Mom. Vika. It's not a blue whale." Briefly about the so-called game. The Quest is designed for children from 12 to 16 years of age. The risk group has all the teenagers registered on social networks, so you can imagine what the percentage is. The game is activated by placing a hashtag on a special page of the child’s user, followed by a so - called curator at night. At first, children get simple and even interesting tasks, and then they get more complicated: cuts on their hands, dangerous roof walks, intimate photos. The last task is public suicide. If a child refuses or doubts, he is threatened, blackmailed, and subjected to psychological pressure. A year ago, a bill on criminal responsibility for contributing to suicide was registered at the initiative of the Radical Party. So you can all understand the scale of this: every day the cyber police get 50-70 calls that are related to the result of this game. The emergence of such suicidal games is a kind of indicator of the state’s attitude toward youth, sports, and active leisure. I assure you, if a child had the opportunity to engage in sports, art, and self-development, there would be no such cases. But is that the priority of the state today? No, it's not. Thus, only the Ministry of Youth and Sports is constantly trying to remove the so - called powerless powers. The bill before us is just a struggle against the consequences of this state's irresponsibility with regard to children, but there is no way to prevent a future suicide. The actions of today’s government should be directed towards the development of the social and humanitarian sphere, resulting in the automatic disappearance of the need to combat such a negative consequence of today’s humanitarian default. The Radical Party has always advocated and continues to advocate for the social and psychological security of the nation, especially children and adolescents, because only healthy and educated young people have a chance of a truly good and progressive future. The Radical Party faction of Oleg Láska requires the government to take all necessary measures to prevent it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u134	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, the next national deputy, Golovko, to whom the word is given by his colleague, National Deputy Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u135	(No Variants.) Glory to Ukraine! Dear viewers, listeners! Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. The fact that the Ukrainians went to Midan and that the Ukrainians took up arms to protect the territory of our country says one thing that our nation did not accept the role of being a colony, of being a dependent state, of being a waiter. But. The waiter of the developed world. Unfortunately, however, we see that today’s authorities are no different from the previous regime of Yanukovic, and they continue to offer national interests. And signing an agreement with the IMF is practically a national betrayal, a betrayal of national values, a betrayal of all the Ukrainians who believed in an independent Ukrainian state. The conditions that the IMF has today and the fact that our government has gone into agreement practically completely and completely, and will sell Ukraine to pieces, starting with strategic enterprises such as Centrenerego, Turboat, Odeski porterni plant, ending with our priceless land. Because the earth is not a commodity, the earth is the strategic space of our nation. By selling it, it will be the greatest crime against the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian people, turning the Ukrainians into strongholds, into poverty. This is the impression of the task of modern - day authority. Of course, the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" strongly opposes such steps and condemns the actions of power, the fact that they are today trying to give national interest. It's like another tranche and loans of 1 billion, or 5 billion, and it's, by the way, the total debt of the state today is astronomical and the largest in years, and it's already over 90 percent of our nation's GDP, and today every Ukrainian, even a newborn, owes over 50,000 dollars, and that debt is, unfortunately, increasing. They want to finally sell Ukraine for the debts they have involved in our nation. So we are definitely against such steps. Instead of fighting corruption, instead of fighting the shadow economy, instead of putting our laws to the vote on forced return of money from offshore and illegal capital, the authorities today don't want to do that. Instead of making really determined reforms and encouraging the development of our economy, giving affordable loans to small and medium-sized businesses, lending to farmers and farmers to take technology to lysing to develop our economy, the government is finally getting a small, medium-sized business. One such condition is the destruction of a simplified tax system for small and medium - size business. It's unacceptable. So the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union calls for power to come to terms. If they cross this red line, this line, they will end up much worse than the previous regime of Yanukovic, because Ukrainians will not be waiters of the developed countries of the world, the Ukrainians will not be a colony of Moscow or the West. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u136	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Tetjana Richkov, your word and then Lechchenko, and then Jurik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u137	Auntie Ritchkova, 27th District, Dnipro. I would like to draw your attention to the problem of adapting former ATO military personnel who have returned from the front to a peaceful life. According to official records, it's about 100,000 people. In the example of my hometown, I'll show you what reality looks like with their employment. In the 15th year, 136 demobilized people were asked to help with employment. Among them, only 14 people were found to work. That's 10 percent of those, that's the number of people who went downtown. There is actual sabotage of employers, and there are several reasons. If the conflict gets worse, the atolls may be the first to mobilize again. And the employer doesn't want to pay the person who's going to pay the double cost. Second, employers are also intimidated by the fact that under article 12 of the Act on the Status of ATO Veterans and their Social Assistance, social protection of former wartime actors has the predominant right to remain on the job when reduced. Many employers have a stereotype: returning from war, which means things are not going well with their heads. They humiliate these people, forcing them to collect a lot of evidence from drug addicts and psychiatrists. Worst of all, the demobilized ATO veterans, returning to the businesses from which they were taken to the army, often show that people work in their places. When they fought on the front, they also had to fight in the courts. Where do you get all the money? The basic issues that need to be resolved so that these people do not go on board in a peaceful life. First. Offer holiday benefits to businesses that hire ATO veterans. The other one. To free ATO veterans from the payment of the military congregation, which is counted at a salary of one and a half percent. Third. Set the benefits of a single tax rate for participants, ATO veterans, who are natural persons, entrepreneurs. Existing problems require the development and implementation of a series of targeted state-level programmes to support ATO members who have been released from military service and changes at the legislative level. Dear colleagues, these people are waiting for effective decisions in Parliament, not the political battalions that are taking place here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Tetian. Please, Sergey Lechchenko, and then Yuri Solovay. Yes, and with the insistence of the national deputies present in the hall, I continue my work for exactly 10 minutes. At 2: 10 p.m., we finish our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u139	Good afternoon, Ukrainians! Today's speech is about how our service, the Ukrainian Security Service, is turning into an instrument not only of political persecution, but also of the allocation of business markets, the allocation of competition, the creation of advantages for some companies and the destruction of others. You remember how during February we all fought to get our gas importers, the independent companies that brought this fuel to you, consumers, not to raise the price of this fuel, like their nightmares, to the U.S.S.S., to break things and block them for four months. November 10th was the first November of the CBS to block customs. And only March 7th was this product released. So for 4 months, entrepreneurs suffered damages to clean up the market. And an interesting observation, now it turns out that last week Russia, the Federal Technical and Economic Control Service blocked all the imports of compressed gas in Ukraine, except for two traders -- Medvedchuk and Kurchenk. So everything that's become known to us before as just suspicion is now confirmed. The Ukrainian Security Service has been working in conspiracies with Russian services to clean up the market for clumped gas imports. The same gas that's being poured into a car that's being used in the villages. This market was being cleaned together to ensure that two new Odyssey players — Medvedchuk and Kurchenko — operated together. All of this is happening in the eyes of the state. And all of this, of course, is a terrible disgrace. And hopefully, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, which is already investigating the head of Demchina's department, will put that dot. In the meantime, calls continue to be made for the use of the Ukrainian Security Service. Yesterday, representatives of the South Wine Company came and told the story the same way that they were blocked by the SBA. The Odessa Customs do not complete the customs of horse alcohol for several months. I have a question. We don't have anything more to do with them running after cremated gas importers, pecan exporters, horse liquor importers? It's just a dining room for them. Because they do what they earn in their pocket instead of guarding our state to protect especially valuable witnesses. You remember shooting in the middle of the city of the former State Duma Voronenko, the one who was to be followed day and night by the U.S.S.S.S. agent Putin. Instead of controlling such people in order to fight Russian agents in the Ukrainian state, they are dealing with the scourge of businesses, the persecution of importers, the creation of competition, the creation of jobs in Ukraine, which provide Ukrainians with bulk domestic products and pay taxes. So I'm pretty sure the NAB has to put a dot and investigate activities like the Girl at the head of the "K" HQ. In general, it takes a long time to get rid of the S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u140	Please, the next National Deputy Soloway, Yuri Soloway. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u141	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina and Poksi. Dear colleagues, unfortunately we have not much left in the room right now, but I tell you that I am very sorry to observe the fact that the Ukrainian Parliament and this high Ukrainian rostrum in the vast majority are used for mutual accusations, for words of fornication and very little, unfortunately, are used for their purpose in professional and professional discussion, and today the necessity of this in Ukrainian society is. Because unfortunately, systemic, professional and strategic issues or strategic reforms are unfortunately not discussed in Parliament. If we take, for example, the same pension reform, I want to say that this is a key issue, it's not just a social issue, but it's an economic one. I'll give you a few numbers that I'm not tired of repeating. Today, 80 percent of Ukrainian pensioners receive a pension of less than 2,000 dollars. Today, pensioners who have the same job and pay the same, but if these retirees retire at different times, they receive a completely uneven pension. This suggests that today's existing pension system, a solidarity system, is completely not coping with the challenges that are present today, and does not fully serve as a just distribution of pensions when a person leaves for deserved rest. And so when we are discussing today, we need to make it clear that the reform of the pension system should be one of the key, but we can't in any way limit it to reforming part of the solidarity system. We've already done this in 2011 and we see today that we're in the 17th year and the results of the purely cosmetic changes that were made in the 11th year solidarity system, we don't have that today. That's why I think, if we want pension reform to be complex and basic, we should be talking in a mandatory order about the introduction from 2018 of the second level of the pension system, the so-called cumulative pension system, when each person has his own personal accrual account, when each person points to this accrual account of 2 to 7 percent of the size of his salary, and these costs have an investment income, and they don't go away, and the person has the ability to use it. That's why I think that when we have a discussion today on pension reform, this debate will be completely complete only then and this reform will be properly implemented when, in addition to the reform of the solidarity system, we are unequivocally committed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, I can see and watch the weather today. Please, Mr. Konstanovic's national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u143	Honorary Society, Irina Konstankevich, 23th constituency, Ukrainian Patriot Union, Volin. I would like to continue with the topic that Mr. Yuri had violated on pension insurance and point out that this problem, apart from the social, economic component, has a moral problem because a large number of people who retired by 2011-2012 and worked for the Ukrainian people, 30-40 years of age, have a pitiful pension. And it is not fair that our nation has humiliated these people, bringing them to such poverty and to such a existence. For generations these people faced the most terrible trials, mostly children of war or postwar years, living in Soviet totalitarian times. And now that the Ukrainian independent state is demonstrating this kind of attitude, they have this question about who they are in this state and who is this state to them? That is why I believe that, along with what we need to talk harshly about pension reform, we, as national MPs, must demonstrate consistent parliamentary control over this reform and do everything we can to protect the interests of all pensioners and, in the context of this reform, especially those who have spent many years of their lives, health, strength and work on our people, and on the Ukrainian state. The second subject that I wanted to break was to ask our Parliament’s speaker to include in order a daily bill initiated by me and my colleagues from the Ukrainian Union of Patriots at number 5612 on fair scholarship insurance. Unfortunately, we have a lot of problems with scholarships. I think we should support those students who are successfully learning, but unfortunately they can't get a state academic scholarship. And the third question that I'd like to address is this year 2017 is the anniversary of Ukrainian-Polish famous writer Gabriela Zapolski, born in Volina, buried in Lviv. It played an important role in Ukrainian-Polish cultural relations. And in my opinion, our state should honor the literary Jubilee of this non-ordinary character and thus demonstrate a gesture of respect for Ukrainian-Polish friendship. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u144	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Wolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u145	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Ladies and gentlemen, last week, the Supreme Council of the Radical Party faction initiative adopted an important foreign policy document -- a call to the United States Congress for security assurances. This is an extremely important step towards the practical implementation of the Budapest Memorandum, which proposes a specific mechanism for its implementation through the establishment of a direct military agreement between our nations. In his address, the Ukrainian Parliament noted that in the early 1990s, it was a peaceful European. The pro-European Ukraine, including the United States of America, voluntarily renounced the third in the world’s nuclear arsenal owned by Ukraine and acceded to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons as a nuclear-weapon State. Thus, our country has made an unprecedented historical contribution to reducing the threat of nuclear war in the world and global nuclear disarmament. The people of Ukraine, who have become victims of military, economic and information aggression by Russia, rightly look forward to the proper support of the United States and other world democracies in defending their right to live in a free democratic and prosperous state. In line with the spirit and the letter of the Budapest Memorandum, as well as the development of a strategic partnership between our States, the Ukrainian Parliament appealed to the new United States Administration and Congress to consider granting Ukraine the status of "main non-NATO ally" and the establishment of a bilateral defence agreement between our States. Such action by America to implement the Budapest Memorandum would have a huge impact on the cessation of Russian aggression against Ukraine, the deterrence of the aggressor and the prevention of the outbreak of the great war in Europe. This is in the interests of Ukraine, Europe, the United States, and the entire civilized world. So the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United States has a chance to make history. We are convinced that we will eventually find the full realization of Ukraine’s security assurances. The water is boiling. And when the Radical Party comes to power, this process will accelerate radically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u146	Please, the national deputy Gabrieluk gives the floor to the national deputy Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u147	Oleg Valeriyovich, first of all, you know how I respect you and address you as a friend, please, the next time you talk about Timoshenko and the lie, please specify which one of Timoshenko's specifics you mean. Also, the borons of God will think of me. And now on the matter, so I have an appeal to the Attorney General of Ukraine from the inhabitants of my city of Colomia. Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, I have been repeatedly asked by the residents of Colomia to help solve a number of issues related to huge abuses and fraud in the area of housing and cooperative construction. The biggest abuses have arisen where the founders of residential cooperatives are the active management of the city of Colomia, the highest authority. So the flagman of violations and fraud in this city is the sad long-known Aquamarine cooperative. For more than 10 years, Aquamarine doesn't put a house into operation, people are being swindled, and their money is being stolen and owned, which is what the head of this cooperative has been testifying to on camera. In a series of housing and building cooperatives without agreement with the members of these cooperatives at their expense, without changing the project technical documentation, additional housing, commercial objects, and the costs are borne by the founders of cooperatives. People have been cheated in a fraudulent way by the Alexanderite, the Malahit, the Granat, the Coral and others cooperatives. According to citizens of this and other matters, the law enforcement authorities have violated a number of pretrial investigations, but the opposition to such investigations is very active. For example, for more than four years now, law enforcement authorities have been unable to complete a trial that will begin in 2014 on abuses where one of the founders of a cooperative is, say, the bearer of the highest authority in the city of Colomia. Other judicial investigations are ongoing, and the egregious facts of laudable abuses are overlooked by law enforcement officials. Neither protest nor appeal to the District Attorney’s Office nor to the Attorney General’s Office are helpful. So people are desperate. Please take the matter under personal control, give a proper assessment of the inaction of the law enforcement authorities, and bring the guilty to criminal responsibility. Please form this as a parliamentary request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u148	Thank you. It will be a parliamentary appeal, a request requires a different procedure. Colleagues, over. Please do not press the Presidency on such an important day, Friday, 14.08. As a result of the pressure on the rostrum and on the headmaster and on the multistage. As if the change here in our letter remains the three speakers: Popov, Drevijanko, and Berezuk And that's where we're going to end our session. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u149	Igor Popov, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška Honorable national MPs, honourable voters, the Supreme Council of Ukraine must decide to have only one passport: a passport from a Ukrainian citizen. In the Constitution, in the law and now there is a declaratory rule that prohibits Ukrainians from having dual citizenship. However, this standard is not being fulfilled today. To date, several bills have been registered in the Supreme Council, which should introduce a mechanism to implement this standard. Several of these bills have been drafted by members of the Radical Party. I'm sure they all have rational seeds, we can bring them together -- and, in fact, make the right decision. The main aspect is the mechanism for the removal of passport violators from Ukraine. But this law should not apply to all citizens at least in the first stage. Only certain categories need to be removed, and the requirements must be the strictest. What are the categories? These are Ukrainian national deputies, they're government officials, they're military officers, they're special services. They all serve the State. And they must all serve only one state, the State of Ukraine. All of them must pay taxes in just one state. They should all be concerned about security, only the security of Ukraine, and they should treat that state as their own, not as a state of temporary residence. Understandably, there are questions of local council members, especially in border areas where citizens of other nationalities live compactly. Local councillors should only be citizens of Ukraine so that we do not have any new separatist republics. There's a separate question about the "import" ministers. I've sent a question to the MPs. It turns out that those with paphos were given passports by Ukraine, almost none of whom refused other passports, two years later. And that's also a question to be asked. But this Law on the Disenfranchisement of Citizenship should by no means apply to our diaspora representatives who work both in Ukraine and abroad. This law should not apply to our employees, millions of citizens are unfortunately forced to seek employment abroad, some of whom have received foreign passports. When the Radical Party implements its industrial program, they'll have a better job here than abroad, but as long as many of them are married, married, have other passports, we shouldn't order them, under this law not to make harsh decisions. In the Supreme Council, he was opposed to enacting laws about the deprivation of citizenship. We understand why. Because in those who make these decisions, many also have two passports. We demand that these laws be placed in the order of the day next week and that they be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u150	Please, National Deputy Derevyanco. And then Oleg Beresuk. And we're adjourning our meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u151	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! The "Will" political party advocates that local self-government be strong, self-sufficient, so we consistently advocate that the countries outside the population should be transferred to the communal property of the united territorial communities, which can be managed more rationally, and the funds from this arrangement will be transferred to the local budgets. Bill 4355, which was adopted a year ago in the first reading, does not insist on voting, although it is ready for second reading. Why is this happening? Because there is still a corruption scheme created in Yanukovic's time, when, for a thousand -- a thousand dollars per hectare, Dergeokadastre allocates land to the required individuals, and rents more than 10 million acres [200 - 300 ha] of oran land in Ukraine. This vicious corruption scheme, unfortunately, continues and I urge all of you, our colleagues, to stop it and vote on it. At the same time, the authorities are under an obligation to sell the land immediately and to move to the so - called market for the land of the civilized but, rather, the wild, because the authorities are under an obligation to do so now and immediately. The "will" political party believes that we should have a civilized market for the earth, but a civilized party that has to go through certain steps that are mandatory. First step. This is the introduction of a transparent market for land rations. Step two. It protects the creation of legal mechanisms to protect the mammals who now own this land. Step three. This is a mandatory adoption of Bill 4355, where local communities and local authorities will influence land management. Next. This is the support of farms and the opportunity for farmers to become stronger to participate in this so - called market and to be able to develop farming in the countryside. The next step is to create an online auction, an electronic site like ProZorro, which will really enable you to get a market price, a fair price for a given land. Only in this way can we have a real market. And in parallel, they need to adopt separate legislation that will require the protection of our Ukrainian countries, the Blacklands from exhaustion, the Blacklands from protection for the future, for our children. Without that, we can't go at a fast pace to the so-called wild market, to the immediate sale of land, because the owners will be the same oligarchs who now own both the oligarchs and the ossuaries and the president's surroundings, and all our peasants will be slaves on our Ukrainian land. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u152	Please, Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u153	Last week, the Ukrainian people witnessed how the oligarchy system had taken place, with an abrupt swindler’s hand in the pockets of the people, and said that this should be the case. Last week, when the NCREKP, which is to serve the people and the State, served the oligarchs and assigned a subscription. Little did they steal the pipe, yet they wanted people to pay for it. Therefore, we must do all we can to ensure that this body, which is a governmental body, should serve the people, is punished. This is a full-screen rotation of the NCREKP. And before that, they have to cancel their decision, because it's a fraudulent decision against a Ukrainian person. But by the hand of a con artist, they've been hunting for the last few months. The blockade, which had been a blockade on those who had protected Ukraine since the first day, showed that the Ukrainian institutional state, sadly, served the oligarhams because they traded in blood. For that to happen, this hall must adopt very important laws: the Act on Occupied Territories, the Anticorruption Court Act, and the Law on Open List Elections on a Proportional Basis. And then we'll have a chance. And now, for the time being, the oligarch system is in a frenzy. The Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, is persecuting those who are fighting corruption, and is persecuting those who are fighting for the Ukrainian state. We demand that the SBA and the Head of the Supreme Council report to us on who was in this Hall in military form and put the Ukrainian institutional state and parliament in danger. And it is not necessary for the U.S.S.S.A. to run after entrepreneurs, the U.S.S.S.A. to chase garbage trucks across Ukraine, accompanied by flashy T-shirts. You don't have to go after the members of the Self-Help Party in Kharkiv, Zitomir, Lutsk, Lviv, but you have to fight the real enemies of the Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian state that are here in Kiev, Kharkiv, Lviv and other cities of the country. Because the enemy is awake, an enemy on our border.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-07-m0.u154	Dear colleagues! We are adjourning the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Once again, I would like to welcome all the Ukrainians to the day of the Annunciation! Wishing for the good news of the good news as much as possible. And remind your honorary colleagues that we have a session next week. And the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, April 11, at 10 a.m. Please don't forget that. And we're waiting for everyone in the workplace. And the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Good-bye.
