ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Please, we're taking up jobs. Colleagues ready to register? National deputies of Ukraine are requested to register. Please register. [[10:05:16]] 352 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. My colleagues, I want to remind you that today we have two key blocks to look at: a block of transport, laws that have been processed in all committees and factions, and most of them are unifying, and environmental policy issues. Two blocks, important questions, so I ask everyone to concentrate, prepare for active and productive work. And we have 25 articles of the Rules on Tuesday 30 minutes for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. Therefore, honourable colleagues, representatives of factions and groups are requested to record the performance. Please sign up. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, delivered by Kugel. Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! Dear listeners, the people of Ukraine! With all the festivals, Christ's Christmas! I hope that when we went through such spiritual festivals, many of you met with people, and you may have felt that the two problems we have today besides roads and fools are still lacking in social policy and health protection. Please tell me that Napoleon said that only intelligent people learn from the mistakes of others, everyone else learns from their own. How much can we learn from mistakes by putting our own Ukrainian lives on hold? What did we have with you at the end of December and at the beginning of January? Some reported and shouted about an increase in wages to 3,200 without making any calculations, while entrepreneurs stood in line and closed. 128 thousand small and medium - size businesses were closed in a few weeks in Ukraine. Count that at least two people worked there. It's a million unemployed. And now I'm reading what the European Union, our colleagues, tells us. It is essential that governments effectively interact with the private sector, which accounts for 90 percent of all jobs. So we need to find the most effective way to stimulate the growth of small businesses and farms. We've done the opposite with you. Farmers were buried in the budget, no money was given in the recovery, but only money was given to an oligarch who was a smoker. Not by the name of Chicken, but by the name of Chicken. What have we done with small and medium-sized businesses? We gave them a salary of 3,000 200 as a requirement. But there are fines that don't exist if you take even the oil well. For oil wells, 910 dollars, and for unformed workers or you don’t pay $3,200, it’s up to $11,000,800. And this is creating conditions? And you're counting on raising the economy? And when you say you're not going to be doing unemployment, I'm sorry and I'm reminding the whole government, the unemployment fund is a social fund that entrepreneurs themselves and all those who work. The State has nothing to do with this. This is our fund. Second, if you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u3	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u4	I want to speak to the Minister of Social Policy and the Minister of Health, who now sings together, that the JEC and the hospital are the same thing as not treating those who are onc sick, who will not support the Chernobyls, who will not support the children of war. We have a Constitution and we have a parliamentary-presidential country. Dear colleagues, let us challenge them here and ask them what they are, how they are experimenting over our country and what their goal is.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, Shipko Andry Fedorovich, Rebirth Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u6	Dear people's deputies, dear Ukrainians! First of all, I want to welcome everyone to the light Christmas celebrations, to wish everyone peace, prosperity, God's blessing, and most importantly, health, because looking at what is responsible for our health with you is "the team of Madagascar's penguins" -- that's what they call themselves in the Ukrainian Truth interview, we're going to need more health. Since the appointment of the new M.O.S. team, I've been doing everything I can to present health reform, but all I can see is talk. And our Health Committee has drafted legislation on medical supplies, medical care, transplantation, and rehabilitation. The Social Policy Committee has already received a favorable assessment of the draft Law on General Compulsory Social Health Insurance. That is, there are bills that will now launch qualitative changes in health care, and the MOH team does not even read them. At a meeting of our committee in the U.S. The minister, under the protocol, stated that he was personally responsible for what was going on in the field of medicine, hospital treatment and patients would receive it. What do we have? People die without waiting for drugs without waiting for the stents, but they tell us about the economy. Okay! That's very good! But no one says that this economy happens at the expense of human life. And that, unfortunately, is the truth, and that is the responsibility. And to answer for the fact that in Ukraine the lowest life expectancy in Europe is that we do complex operations abroad -- we don't have doctors, we don't have professionals? – answer for the Ukrainians dying. Since the beginning of the year, we have lost 29,000 in less than three weeks, and half a million Ukrainians die of cardiovascular disease and cancer each year. Just imagine, in two years, a millionaire city disappears from the map of Ukraine. Yeah, we understand that prevention is necessary, we're in the process of prevention, but what can you do to those who have a myocardial infarction or stage three cancer? Today, medicine is destroyed. And if it wasn't for the Prime Minister's position on quality changes in the field, I'm even afraid to imagine the possible consequences of this team's work. What should we do? Today we need a rebirth, a resurgence of medicine for people. People need drugs that they can buy in pharmacies without counting the last few. People need doctors who don’t look in their pockets but get a decent salary and just heal. People need to have professionals in the medical field who understand that they need to be united in order to introduce health insurance, to develop Ukrainian medicine, to protect Ukrainian health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, Berezuk Oleg Romanovich, Self Help Unit.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u8	Your Honourable Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen, I will carry out my parliamentary duty, for I am asked to do so. People don't feel like we hear them, people don't trust us, but they're trying to reach us. A letter from the Congregation of the Lviv Region: "We ask you to read this letter to the deputies, to pass it on to the Prime Minister, as otherwise he will not receive it otherwise. We are the inhabitants of the congregation who have asked you to do so repeatedly, but there is no result. Life is very difficult, food is very expensive, and medicine and speech cannot be spoken of. Ministers change, and there is no result, on the contrary, they value medicine every week. We've already written to you that the Ukrainian people are dying because there's no way to heal, there's no pension, there's no work, and the Supreme Council declares its wealth, and people want to cry. The MPs declared their belongings and apartments and houses, came to Sambir, to campaign for themselves, not just for themselves, but for some, there are witnesses. We voted for the president, we voted, we campaigned, but we were wrong. Please tell me why no one is punished for crimes before Maidan, for this thriving corruption. Is it necessary to regather the people to Midan? Why hasn't anyone released the head of the National Bank? She's been tipping us, that's, like, a dollar raises the price for everything. Dear Prime Minister, we want to count on you. The Attorney General also promises to handle matters, and he does nothing. Another letter is from Lugansk district, Triotic district. "Dear Members, we will be very grateful if you will help us heal. It's very embarrassing on our part, but it's a cry of the soul. We don't know what to do anymore, because our pensions are weird. How can we live on 1,000, 300 bracelets with current prices for everything, especially cures and cures for diseases, and tariffs for GHC? Well, I'm not going to get angry with God, even though they gave me a grant. If not, it is life, not life, but torment. Forgive me for your crying. Thank you for your help. With the New Year and the Christmas Christ!" These are ordinary people who write to us, and we do not read these letters. Little by little, most of the people who sit here depend on an oligarhat who doesn't want to see these people and hear them. So our proposal is to stand on the throat of an oligarchic song. We must put an end to political corruption that is becoming economic corruption and is destroying an ordinary person in Ukraine who cannot reach power with his own screams. To stop political corruption, to vote on the Supreme Council Election Act on a proportional basis with open lists, to stand on the throat of an oligarchy song, and to vote for the abolition of the immunity of the deputy corps. What's more, you have to stand on the throat of an oligarchic song, and you have to release it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u9	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u10	And to release today's leadership of the DFS, because every day that this leadership is in office is the money of these women and men who are yelling at us. Today, we must give the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health, an end to the reform they started, because this is a reform that will hear people and give them the money we take from them with the oligarhat.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u11	Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich, "Block of Peter Dustenka", gives the word "Igor Greeniv". Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u12	Reverend Head! Dear colleagues! Dear compatriots! Christ was born! Although we are living with another parliamentary year, today we are starting here in Parliament a new year, followed by a whole Ukrainian society. And I want to welcome all the citizens present with the New Year and the Christmas Christ, with the coming Waters. These must be the largest Christian festivals in Ukraine. It is symbolic that we celebrate them early in the year, regardless of religion, during religious festivals, we all feel like a great Ukrainian family. In recent years this sense of unity has been especially important to us, for the enemy has come to the threshold of our home and has left no hope of conquering all Ukraine. So from the bottom of my heart, I wish all of us understanding, unity and harmony, prosperity, and real progress for all of Ukraine. It's been a difficult year for all of us. 2016 was not just a dream year, but, indeed, a year of serious trials. And for most Ukrainian homes to have peace, I express my deep gratitude to our soldiers, who, in advance, at the expense of their own lives, give us the opportunity to experience the real joy of Christmas celebrations. Turning to our affairs, first of all, the Ukrainian Parliament, without any exaggeration, has successfully carried out the main tasks that we have faced in the past 2016. We have embarked on reforms that have been called for over the last 25 years. It was the Supreme Council of the Eighth Council that provided the legislature, and the government of our coalition started their successful implementation. In the economy, we've restored economic growth, stopped hyperinflation. I would like to stress that this is in the condition that there is a war going on in Ukraine that needs constant enormous defence costs. The country’s economy has lost nearly half its potential because of the occupation of industrial regions. We have not received the full amount of the promised support from the International Monetary Fund. One way or another, we were able to put together two governments to set up reforms that are already producing results, and the economy has gone from stagnation to slow but growing. Social spheres, if not the first time, the minimum wage is going to be higher than the minimum of living, and it's going to be 3,000 thousand 200 dollars. This is also a credit to Parliament. The recovery effect on the economy from this decision will be observed throughout this year. Is it not the main achievement of the Supreme Council that we have managed to avoid the political crisis in Parliament and as a result of the power collapse in Ukraine? This year, created by the NABA and the NAZK, the Henprocurator has created new units. This should also be viewed as a positive reform, for competition in crime - dealing bodies is the destruction of corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u13	Please let me finish 30 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u14	The Supreme Council has fulfilled all the requirements of the European Union. The prospects for Ukraine's membership in the EU or its future can be assessed differently, the main thing is that Ukraine will live by open democratic standards, from which citizens of our state will already win today. We have laid the legislative basis for reforming the defence complex, education, the Constitution, and decentralization. Dear colleagues, it is our political will and responsibility that will determine what it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u15	Thank you, Sir Igor, for the faction's position. I now invite the Radical Party's head of national deputy Oleg Laska with a support group.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u16	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues, with what are we entering the new year? The press published a new draft memorandum with the International Monetary Fund of today’s authorities. And what do we see? Instead of making real reforms to improve the standard of living of citizens, to restore economic growth in Ukraine, to overcome unemployment, to create jobs for Ukrainians who are now in power? Re-increasing the retirement age for Ukrainians, again selling land. Who, I ask, has given today’s authority the right to assume these dragonlike obligations? Why are Ukraine, Ukraine, and Ukrainian citizens traded in secret? Instead of giving jobs to Ukrainians when half of the working population is out of work, there is no possibility of paying taxes, the government, the authorities are destroying small and medium-sized businesses, raising taxes, raising retirement age, and selling land, motivated by reforms. It's not reform, it's the road to bankruptcy, and it's the deault of Ukraine, because real reforms are not $30 a dollar a dollar a dollar, but it's the result of taxes on the poorest when, as a result of the fall in the course, dollars are cut off from savings, wages, pensions, Ukrainian income when people can't make ends meet. Instead of adopting laws that will enable economic growth to be restored, to support a national producer, to increase our country's export potential, what does the National Bank and Government do? They wash the gold reserves, they keep the money at the expense of the International Monetary Fund's loans, and that's actually the way to the economic divide and the default. What does the Radical Party offer? First, we believe and demand that we do not sell the land. Last year, 66 million grains were collected in Ukraine, meaning that it is possible to establish record crops without selling land. Give subsidies to farmers for cattle, give farmers cheap credit, and sell their produce, and there is no need to sell land. Next, the employment of Ukrainians and young people. We believe that the only way to solve our country's problems, to restore economic growth is through a radical change in economic policy and monetary policy, led by today's government and the leadership of the National Bank of Ukraine. Cheap loans for industry, supporting a national producer, stretching it in the external markets, is the guarantee of our country's development, not its sale, as today's authorities are doing. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u17	Please, now is the time for the performance of the Opposition Block, and the word is given to the head of the Yuri Boyka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u18	Dear national deputies, most citizens have not lost their concern over the survival of their families in today’s realities. The wakes that came along only increased this concern. This is evidenced by the fact that only on January 6, 130 single - tax entrepreneurs withdrew their registration. Today, the figure has apparently doubled. There's further poverty, there's pensioners outside poverty, there's a cut in production, and there's a downturn in business. So we consider it necessary to make a responsible decision -- to review the budget and accept the proposals that the Opposition Block made in the first reading, namely, to return to the issue of social protection of Ukrainian citizens. The budget should enable people to survive and must support their own producer. We propose to raise the minimum pension and anticipate in the budget a reduction in the pension deficit. Speaking of sources of filling, we insist that we cut back on the power block. We consider it necessary to take into account inflationary revenues in the budget and exit from the shadow of customs congregations. These are the main sources that are sufficient to raise the minimum pension and reduce the pension deficit. Now, about the loud initiative, we're going to call the military pulpit graduates. Let's call things our names: in the country they want to spend another moment of mobilization. And this, despite the senior leadership's statement about the formation of a contractual army, is once again under the pressure of mass psychosis in society, rather than in Parliament making decisions about the structure and financing of a professional army. We believe that any issue related to mobilization should be resolved in Parliament, not through the adoption of single decisions by the Ministry of Defence. And the last. The government can't handle the basics, it's providing the population with heat and medicine, because of the staff disorder and the scandals surrounding the purchase of drugs. On Fridays, therefore, we need to hear the government report on the heating season and the provision of quality heat and quality medicine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u19	Thank you. Please, from the People's Front, the head of the Maksim Burbak faction. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u20	Honorable National Deputies, dear Mr. Head, presiding, distinguished compatriots! For the third year, Ukraine is living in extreme conditions. In 2014, in Maidan, people chose real, undeclared independence. We have been entrusted with representing their interests, caring for the freedom of Ukrainians, and the free future of future generations. We can't lose this historic chance. The Russian Empire invaded the Maya’s freedom. The enemy caused a hemorrhage by taking over Crimea by occupying part of the Ukrainian Donbas. Russian missiles continue to pour onto our land. As before, our boys keep the second in the world at the cost of their lives by the strength of the army. In the meantime, unfortunately, ideas of surrender to the aggressor begin to be thrown in the back. In particular, regarding the refusal of the Ukrainian Crimea and the recognition of so - called elections in hostile territories. The People's Front calls on everyone who actually hurts for our country to stop throwing away the idea of giving up the territory of an aggressor. There's no support for these ideas in this room, and there won't be. What's more, Russia doesn't need a piece of territory because it wants to control our entire state, our whole Europe. Here a simple-minded MP from the Petra Prashenka Bloc offered to apologize to Trump for saying he would review the U.S. position on the Crimea annexation. I want to ask him, I'm sorry he's not in the room, if this is the official position of the faction. Can we admit that Crimea has been annexed fairly? Can we admit that we should apologize to Le Penn and Putin? We need to conclude that this is an official position. Colleagues, we have only one choice: to become strong, to strengthen our army, to build a sovereign information and culture space free of oligarchic puppets and tonic cans. To have an independent economy, to pursue an active, consistent foreign policy. Reinforce the anti-putinian front and extend sanctions against Russia until the aggression or the collapse of the aggressor is complete. The People's Front is proud that due to the government of Yatzenuk, military wages have tripled and, for the first time in history, they're higher than the average wage. We insisted that since 2017 they rise substantially on the first and second lines of the ATO zone. The army's security will continue to be the top priority of our faction. The People's Front is also constantly working with influential politicians and experts in the West to strengthen and expand the anti-putin coalition. We thank US Vice President Joseph Byden for his many years of active and consistent partnership with Ukraine. Especially yesterday's meeting of Mr. Byden with the leader of our political power, the People's Front, Arsenius Yatsenuk, gave us firm conviction that there are enough friends in the United States in Ukraine. The U.S. will always stand for the protection of world order, they were, are and will be the leader of a free world that protects Ukraine's independence. At the end of my speech, on behalf of the People's Front faction, I would like to express my concern at the alarming situation with the exchange rate of the national currency.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u21	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u22	We require the management of the National Bank to take measures to stabilize the course of the bracelet. The clear actions of the NBA, along with the clear public position of the entire nation, must calm the currency market and immediately establish safeguards for people’s disturbing economic behaviour. This is also a matter of national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u23	Thank you. And the closing statement from "The Will of the People" is Vladimir Litwin. And there are requests to continue recording and listing by writing. Please. You were in the hall, I saw you could sign up. Please, Mr. Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u24	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! One of Trotsky’s talks, who was a brilliant speaker, was this reaction: "He was listened to with respect." I think people don't even listen to us with hatred anymore, because we've all learned to speak well. But please take a look at the schedule for our meeting this week. Is there one question that will answer people’s questions? Well, for example, the first and key problem that we're talking about right now is the problem of providing drugs and medicines. I think each of you reads the answers to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Health for Crystals, so that a person can at least read a prayer book on the slope of his own age. Answer: No, no, no, no, no. Next, the ball joints. The answer: No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Next thing you know, the walls for immediate surgical intervention. Answer: None. I have a question, dear colleagues, to all of you, including me: what are we doing here? Let's have a chat. Why is there no minister of health so far? I've been asking a few questions. Reaction is zero. Where's the coalition? Where's the government? What are we waiting for the whole country to die out? I'm reading information. For 2017, drugs were purchased for the treatment of cancer patients, whose deadline ends in March of this year. Then, according to all the normative documents. If the drugs are available six months before the end, it is not possible to buy. Where is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine? Where is the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Where's the government? What are we talking about? So I think we should listen to this information on Friday, not just like the hour of such conversation and applause, about what is happening in this area. And the last. On raising the minimum wage. It's a very nice thing, but in the medical institutes where I've been and talked to doctors, 30 percent can only provide staff salaries, and others have to be released. So obviously, this issue has to be the subject of a scrupulous review of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, along with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in order to find a way out of this situation, and all the other screams and curses that sound in the Supreme Council, nobody needs them at all. People need to give their lives. Let's take care of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for speeches by national MPs, factions and groups has been completed. And we're moving on to the agenda. My colleagues, I remind you, we have the first block of transport today, and the first bill is Bill 4121. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of an automated payment system for travel in urban passenger transport. Colleagues, this is the second reading, the right hand is not much. So I ask everyone to come into the hall and get ready for work. And I invite you to the report by the representative of the Igor Vasyunika Transportation Committee. Mr. Igor, please 4121.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! On November 17th, this bill was based on a first reading review by the Supreme Council. During his preparations for the second reading of the Transport Committee, 67 amendments were made to the 10 entities of the legislative initiative. These are national deputies: Dubnevich, Vasjunik, Jurinec, Semimenach. Ostrikova, Sold, Neda, Yvchenko, Romanyuk, Rybchin. 20 amendments are included, including the National Deputies: Semimenach, Ostrichkova, Yvchenka. Partly 13 amendments have been taken into account, including the People’s Deputy Semenicha, Ostrikova, Prodjan, Vasyunika. And it takes into account the editorially two-pronged amendments made by the national MP, Jurinec Oksana, Seminya Romana, Ostrick's Tetjana. 32 corrections rejected. The committee takes into account the amendments made by the people’s deputies regarding the leaving of a fine for a duty-free journey in the city’s passenger transport on an existing scale, taking into account the significant comments made by the national deputies and the proposals made by the national deputy, Ivchenka Wadima. The committee also takes into account the rights of national deputies relating to replacements in the text of the formulations of the populace, where an automated system of calculation of travel fees has been introduced. in case of the introduction of an automated billing system. Taking these rights into account by the National Deputies of Semimenach and Ostrikov will contribute to the introduction and prospects of an automated system of payment of travel and electronic tickets not only in urban passenger transport but also in urban and suburban passenger transport, as decided by local government administrations. The Committee on Transport also takes into account the rights of national deputies relating to the clarification of regulations governing the use of urban passenger transport, which will be able to confirm the limits of local self - government. The rules governing the provision of services that remain under the authority of the Cabinet of Ministers apply essentially to transporters. In this case, the proposal of the People’s Deputy Sold Oksani is partially taken into account. The committee also takes into account the amendments made by national deputies regarding the establishment of additional guarantees for payment service providers regarding the obligation to provide them with electronic tickets on a free basis. The regulations of the National Deputies of Semimenach and Ostrick have been taken into account. Those proposals that violate article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules do not refer to this text of the bill, which was adopted by the Supreme Council on a basis, are proposed to be rejected. Dear colleagues, before the second reading of the bill, most of the amendments were adopted, the document is balanced. Draft Law 4121, an electronic ticket, is supported by the Ministry of Infrastructure, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, the Association of Cities of Ukraine, the Association of Open Cities of Ukraine, more than 22 cities in Ukraine and district centres. The Transport Committee recommends a draft Law amending some of the legislators.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u27	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u28	on the introduction of an automated payment system for travel in urban passenger transport (registration number 4121) to be accepted on second reading and as a whole by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u29	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's go to the right. Please be prepared for discussion by the right-wing authors. So 1st right. People's deputy to Semimenach. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u30	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, it is very significant and important that today the Supreme Council begins its work directly from a law that introduces one of the few but real reforms, reforms that virtually every Ukrainian feels, and the economic effect will be given to every municipal budget that implements this reform. But I note that the law does not oblige municipalities to do so, but it gives the right to introduce a single electronic ticket for municipal transportation. My aim is to expand the operation not only to urban transport but also to suburban transport. The question is that as a result of today’s labour migration, people often use not only urban transport but also suburban transport every day. And that would be very convenient to expand, and it would also have an economic impact not only on municipal budgets, but also on district budgets, from the point of view of detening the funds that are in circulation today. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u31	Thank you. Comment, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u32	Thank you. The committee rejected this amendment, in accordance with article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations, the local government administration has been given such powers to this day, to ensure that the population services of transport companies are provided, irrespective of the form of ownership. These standards give ODA the right to implement an automated system and an electronic ticket today. In view of the possibility of further settlement at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers, we suggest that we do not violate the rules and resolve the matter separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u33	Thank you. So, a colleague who supports the amendment number one of Semenha's national MPs has rejected it, please vote. Please vote. [[10:42:01]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. 2nd Amendment. Is it insisting? She doesn't insist on Semenach. Fourth, Nedda. Is it insisting? No, it's not. 8th, Romanyuk. Five o'clock, Yvchenko. It's accounted for, right? Counted. Next. 9th, Romanyuk. You want the 5th? Just stand up, huh? Please, one minute, Yvchenko, 5 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u34	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I thank the committee for supporting my amendment. And what I'm saying is that, in fact, this law will allow us to estimate the actual circulation of funds and to assess the reasonableness of the transport tariffs and the possibility of upgrading the carrier's car park. But what I'm saying is that this first-reading correction has increased the fines for those who don't use the ticket from 20 to 30 times the size. I'd still like you to consider that we've returned to the 20-fold amount of payment so that we don't go back to the issues where we in every law increase fines, increase rents, increase taxes. I thank you for coming back to the 20th time, and as a committee, you've taken my bill into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u35	Thank you. You don't insist on voting, do you? Then, Mr. Igor, we don't comment. Next, 10th, Semenah. He insists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u36	Semenha Roman, self-help faction. Dear colleagues, one of the tasks of this reform is to end the era of humiliation of people who have all their lives earned a debt journey. Because very often today, people like that suffer from humiliation, from conductors, from chauffeurs. What is suggested by our revision. Today, in an editorial prepared by the committee for second reading, to confirm the right to an electronic ticket, citizens are required to have a document that shows the right to a business trip. And we're proposing that we unify and allow photography and other personal data directly on an electronic ticket that will make life easier for those who use the right to do so, and also make it impossible to use fake documents or pass such a right on to third parties. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u37	Mr. Igor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u38	Mr. Roman, thank you for your amendments to this bill. But the committee finds it inappropriate to set up electronic tickets. These should be the authority of local governments. Let them decide what kind and form this electronic ticket should be. In addition, it is extremely technical to provide tips from other popular sites with personalized electronic tickets. Therefore, let the local authorities decide on this matter. And they're going to solve this question, and that's basically what the representatives of the cities of Ukraine insisted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u39	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm voting on Amendment 10 of the People's Deputy of Semimenha. It's a committee against it. Whoever supports Amendment 10, please vote. Please. [[10:45:35]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Let's move on. 11th, Jurassic. We don't insist. 12th, Jurassic. Don't insist. 13th, Romanyuk. Don't insist. 14th, Semenha. Don't insist. 15th, Yvchenko. Nope. He insists, doesn't he? Yes, please, 15 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u40	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, in this direction we have tried to implement the Law on State Private Partnership and have written it in this way, this is article 30 of the Automobile Transport Act, that the car carrier or one who directly installs this electronic system has the right to receive from the local self-government a partial compensation for the established automated system of payment of travel in vehicles used by car carriers for the carriage of passengers. At the same time, we suggested that such carriers, at their own expense, set up automated systems for the calculation of transportation vehicles. So we've given you an opportunity, if you're either on your own account, or you can partially compensate from the local self-governance authority, if you're there, you can make a separate ticket for the taxpayers, if you can do more to make a stop where you can sell, if you can make a special electronic system at every door.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u41	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u42	A special electronic system, where passengers enter, will facilitate access to motor vehicles. That is why we proposed the law. I see that the application has been rejected because it is contrary to the Rules. But, believe me, two-thirds of the laws under some articles we're making this right so that, in fact, there's this balanced legislation. I'd like the hall to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u43	Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u44	Thank you, Mr. Wadim. Regrettably, you have confirmed that this right is contrary to the Rules and to article 116 of the Rules of Procedure of Ukraine. In addition, according to our bill, the rights and obligations of carriers will be determined by local authorities. To date, for example, the EBRD is ready to finance the entire system with all its components, so the proposed transportation obligations can be limited in this direction. The committee rejected your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u45	Thank you. Therefore, whoever supports the amendment number 15 of the national deputy Yvchenka, the committee has rejected it, who supports it, please vote. Please vote. [[10:48:28]] For-94 It's not a decision, let's move on. 17th, Semenha, does not insist. 19th, Semenha, does not insist. 22nd, Sold. Nineteen, you insist. Please 19 amendments, Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u46	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Our bill 19 also applies to the protection of the rights of citizens who are entitled to extended passage. The point is that it is in the body of the law to comply with the standard of the Constitution, which today is largely limited by what? That very often drivers or carriers, or local authorities, set limits: the upper number of people who could be. they have the right to stay in service and are carried in one means of transport. This amendment proposes to prohibit the imposition of such a restriction that today is one of the reasons why people receive humiliations that have the right to pay in one vehicle. And in general, the self-help faction calls for the entire session room to uphold the very necessary reform law. Thank you very much. I insist on my right.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u47	Thank you. Mr. Igor, one second.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u48	Thank you, Mr. Roman. But the restriction of prohibitions, I think, is inappropriate to establish in this bill, and the main reason why we rejected your amendment is that it is contrary to the first part of article 16 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u49	Thank you. I have a request to work more intensively, because this law is important, and the following important laws, and so a very big request for more intensive work. So I'm putting to the vote amendment number 19 of the People's Deputies of Semimenha. The committee turned her down. The supporter of Amendment 19, please vote. Please. [[10:50:33]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. 22nd, Sold. Don't insist. 24th, Sold. Don't insist. 26th, Jurassic. Don't insist. 27th, Jurassic. Don't insist. 29th, Semenha. Don't insist. 30th, Romanyuk. Don't insist. 31st, Romanyuk. Don't insist. 32nd Semenha. Don't insist. 37th Semenha. Don't insist. 38th, Romanyuk. Don't insist. 39th, Sold. Don't insist. 40th, Rybchin. Don't insist. 41st, Yvchenko. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u50	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, as the practice shows, there may be a law to be passed, and we would very much like us to uphold this reform law today, and this electronic ticket will be installed, and then there will be not enough places to buy such a ticket. They can put one cash register somewhere in the middle of town, and people will have to go and buy these electronic tickets. So I proposed with this readjustment that at least 25 percent of these places at passenger cars stop from the total number of stops throughout the route. So if this ticket is being implemented, first of all, you have to provide 25 percent of all traffic stops directly to sell these electronic tickets. It's going to be normal, and if we're in the body of the law directly predicting this, it's going to be a normal and direct approach to those people who are going to use this electronic ticket and actually buy ticket data during transportation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u51	Do you insist on voting? They insist on voting. Dear colleagues, we have three papers left. Thus, in a few minutes a decision - making vote will take place. So I'm asking the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that they are going into the hall, and I'm also addressing the factions' heads to invite deputies to the hall, to prepare for the decision. Now I'm putting to the vote Amendment 41, National Deputy Ivchenka. The committee turned her down. Those who support the 41 amendments, please vote. Please. [[10:53:04]] For 114 The decision is not made. 43rd, Romanyuk. Don't insist. 46th, Semenha. Don't insist. And, colleagues, the last amendment: Ribchin. Don't insist. So, colleagues, we're done discussing this bill. As all reporters have pointed out, this is a reform bill that will help our citizens to use transport more freely. And so I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote, my colleague. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. A serious job was done in the second reading. Most of the rights were taken into account. So we went out on a balanced, coherent bill. Can we vote? Vote. I am voting on the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of an automated system for the calculation of fares in urban passenger transport (No. 4121) on second reading and as a whole, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Vote, colleagues, second reading, and in general. 4121. [[10:55:03]] For 265 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee, welcome to the ministry for active work. The law is passed. So now we have a recess announcement. But they're ready to replace it with a tribune. These are two factions, the largest factions of Parliament: the Peter Prashenko Block and the People's Front. But I would like to stress that they're replacing it with a performance, and then we're going right over here to the next issue of order of the day. I now give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine Musak. From the rostrum. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I would like to state and read a joint statement of interfractional union ( The Euro-Optimists and the Interfractional Union of Equal Opportunities for the Inadmissibility of the Use of Hate in the Public Retort of People's Deputies. Last week, Ukrainian national deputy Oleg Valeriovich Ljasko allowed himself in an unacceptable, humiliating form. Unacceptable and humiliating form to offend our former colleague of the national MP, now Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine Ivan Klimpus-Cincadze. He linked her position with the Moratorium on the forest round with the following epithets: "snatched duck", "Oligarch's" and "Governmental Downs". This is not the first, in fact, of hate speech in public politics and sexism. I want to say a few words about that. I'm not going to talk about it, and I'm not going to talk about who is who and who is what bird in Ukrainian politics is. Someone might think it's a pod duck, someone might think it's different. I'm not going to do that. I want to say two things. First. With regard to the relationship with the oligarchs, I would advise you, Oleg Valeriyovich, that subject will never be raised because the outcome of this discussion will not be in your favor. If you ever have doubts about this, please read your interview with "Head" on September 9, 2016, where you clearly indicate: yes, you used the oligarch relationship scheme, the broadcast in exchange for the passing part of the list. The other one. It's about people with Down syndrome. Down syndrome is a genetic anomaly. It belongs to about one of 700 babies. It does not depend on the property of the parents, nor on the country, nor on the climate. In fact, these children are not disabled. They're simple. [[Applause]] And all the other kids and adults, they're not disabled, they're just special. They really fall in love, never betray, always ready for pedantic and systemic work. And they're actually called children of the sun, they're extremely good. [[Applause]] If you also have doubts about this, I recommend that you go to the city of Ladzijin of Winnitsk, where there is only one center, a similar center in Ukraine. As young politicians, we feel that women too. Men. As young politicians, women, and men, we feel that public policy and the work of a national MP should be responsible, and every word should weigh something. That's why most of the members of the Eurooptimists interfractional union, I think, will also be joined by members of the interfractional union.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u53	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u54	We're joined. We will not support the bill where you are co-authored or co-authored by members of the Radical Party until you apologize. We do. In doing so, we need to make it clear that we are not linking the proposal for a moratorium; this could be a professional discussion. But using public things in a professional discussion and insulting a woman and moving on to personalities is unacceptable. And I want you to understand clearly that the toxic word, the toxic signature, will have consequences for you directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I fully support the position that hate speech is unacceptable in the Ukrainian Parliament. At the same time, I think the effect should be to raise the political culture, not to block any legislation. And according to the Rules, I'm giving it a minute. No, it doesn't matter how much it's mentioned. One minute for Oleg Valeriovich Laska. And I would like to stress before I make a statement that the whole messenger is the right one, that the language of hatred should not sound in this Parliament. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u56	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, I want you to hear what these young politicians are blaming us for. They want to rob the country to take the forest out of Ukraine so that the land can be sold so that the retirement age can be lifted up. And those who oppose this policy say we're like that. We stood and stood on the point that if we were to rebuild the country, we needed jobs to protect the national interests of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u57	And it's hard to name people who leave Ukrainians without a job, without a salary, who are hard to call people who deserve support and respect. The Radical Party believes that those who led the Ukrainians into the pen robbed the country through which Ukrainians are married are people who are limited, they're people who are weak-minded. Because it is a disgrace to live in such a country as beggars. That is why we have protected and protected the Ukrainians, their right to work, to pay, and to a decent life.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. We have important questions in the afternoon. Let's think that this discussion is over. The conclusions will be made. And let's move on to the next question of the agenda. Everyone please get ready for work. The next question on the agenda, 4046a, is the draft Law on the State Aviation Safety Program of Civil Aviation. And I'm asking my colleagues to support the consideration of this bill by a reduced procedure. Please consider the simplified procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:02:15]] For 114 [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'm going to re-vote the motion for a reduced procedure. Please prepare and support me, colleagues. Once again, I'm proposing 4046a -- consideration of the reduced procedure. [[11:03:08]] For a hundred and Decision taken. I invite you to report to the Minister of Infrastructure, Omelyan Vladimir Vladimirovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u59	Your Majesty, Mr. Head, the noble national MPs! I am very grateful that there is support for an infrastructure project hall, and we are not just focused on political debate. You are being reviewed by the Ukrainian Civil Aviation Safety Act, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill is designed to take into account the standards of the International Civil Aviation Organization, the European Union, the European Civil Aviation Conference, the European Aeronautics Safety Organization and the changes in Ukrainian legislation that took place with the adoption of a new edition of the Ukrainian Air Code. The bill amends Ukraine's Air Code, Ukraine's Security Service Act and Ukraine's Operational Search Act. The addition to the bill contains the text of a new edition of the State Program. The main tasks of the bill are the division of duties, the establishment of rules for the conduct and application of air safety measures for passengers, aviation personnel and personnel engaged in aviation activities, aircraft, property carried by aircraft, objects, entities of aviation activity, regardless of the form of ownership and subordination. The implementation of the act will allow Ukraine's image in the world to rise as an aviation state, have a positive impact on the socio-economic situation in aviation, create favourable conditions for maintaining a high level of aviation security, guarantee the protection of individuals, their personal property from unlawful interference, adapt Ukraine's legislation regarding civil aviation and ICAO and European Union standards. According to the report, according to an audit by the State of Ukraine, which was carried out by the International Civil Aviation Organization of ICAO in 2011 and 12 years, the draft of the new National Civil Aviation Safety Programme meets standards and is recommended in ICAO practice as part of the need for legislative consolidation of a specific circle of issues that shape Ukraine's image at the international level and protects international civil aviation against terrorism. This law is also very important in view of the fact that this year Ukraine is in the process of being tested again by ICAO.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u60	The co-report invites the head of the Dublin Transport Committee, Jaroslav Vasilovich. Jaroslav Vasilovich, Ukraine awaits your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u61	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The Transport Committee reviewed the draft Law on the National Civil Aviation Safety Program introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (register No. 4046a, dated 22/07.16). The main objective of the development of a new edition of the national programme is to take into account the standards of the International Civil Aviation Organization, the European Civil Aviation Conference, the European Aviation Safety Organisation and to take account of the changes in Ukrainian legislation that took place after the introduction of the national aviation safety programme since 2003. The programme implements national aviation safety legislation in line with modern international standards and recommended practices. The current level of distribution of responsibilities among the implementing bodies is defined. The rules for the deployment and application of aviation safety measures for passengers, aviation personnel and personnel involved in aviation activities have been established. A separate chapter is dedicated to protecting civil aviation from cyber threats. During a meeting of the committee by the Ukrainian national deputy, a member of the committee, Gusak Volodymyr Georgiyovich, was made a number of remarks to the draft State Program, which is set out in the Committee’s conclusions and in the draft decree, and relates to the operation of general aviation aircraft. The committee recommends the adoption of a bill in the first reading on the basis of the draft rulings on the editorial rules of the committee. Please support and thank you for your attention. Please, Your Honor! Dear National Deputies! I ask you to support this bill, which is very important to the aviation industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u62	Thank you. So please record: two for, two for against, please. Jismar Yuri Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u63	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear colleagues! Clearly, this law needs to be supported, it brings positive elements. But I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to contact the Minister of Infrastructure, and I would like to point out the following problems. Today, Carpathia is one of the most remote areas in Kiev. The city of Uzhgrad is 815 km away. And today, almost a year ago, the Uzhgorod Airport doesn't work, and we can't make it to Uzhgorod. Because of the wrecked roads, because of the upheaval, and you saw who was driving, you had the opportunity to ride skis in the winter, sometimes a 40-50-centimeter pit. And driving at night is dangerous not only because of the sighted ones but also because of the many pits along the Chop - Kiev route. To get to Kiev is 12-15 hours. Moreover, no express service is available today! Two or three trains departing from the Carpathians to Kiev are all practically buying tickets in Lviv, Ternopolis, Hmelnicki. Empty wagons go to Carpathians, and there is no way to buy a ticket in the Carpathian register. Today, the Carpathian will cross the border and reach Budapest in 3 hours, Prague in 5 hours, Bratislava in 4 hours, Vienna in 5 hours, Kiev in at least 12 hours, or 15 hours. I'm talking to the minister of infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, note that one area of Kiev and the possibility of reaching the capital cannot be cut off today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u64	Guys, we've only got one more gig. So in two or three minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to come to the hall and prepare for the vote. The word is given to Urban Alexander Igorovich, "Block of Peter Dustenka". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, the bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers is very much supported by the Peter Dustenk bloc because it contributes to the development of the Ukrainian aviation sector. For us, for no one now is the secret that we have a very strict view of our foreign partners as we carry out our laws and responsibilities. Therefore, the implementation of this bill is a very important part of development. And I think that the Supreme Council should do everything we can to prove to our international partners that we are doing everything we can to develop our country. So I ask you very much to support the bill and to vote it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u66	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over, we're moving on to making a decision. And I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Please. So I'm voting on the draft Law on the National Civil Aviation Safety Program (number 4046a) as a basis. Colleagues, just on the basis of the committee's drafting on the basis. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote on the basis of the 4046a committee. [[11:12:25]] For 245 Decision taken. Welcome to the authors. And let's move on to the next bill. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to bring them into line with European Union legislation on the transport of dangerous goods (4644). I ask you to support the proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please vote, please support the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:13:09]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to see the Minister of Infrastructure's report. Omelana Volodymira Volodymyrovica. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u67	Your Honour, Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian law that has been developed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to amend some Ukrainian legislation on bringing them into line with European Union legislation on the transport of dangerous goods. The transport of such goods by road, rail, and river transport and the interaction entails a significant risk of accidents and environmental damage. In this regard, arrangements are needed to ensure the safety of such transportation. In order to guarantee a proper level of security, we need to introduce conditions for the transport of dangerous goods to European level, including the availability and compliance of rules on the functions, duties and responsibilities of the Safety Commissioner for the transport of dangerous goods, consultants, advisers and others, and so on, the loading, unloading, transhipment, interaction with other modes of transport, the provision of transport services as qualified personnel, the use of a mobile combination with a higher level of safety to design. We would like to point out that the drafting and submission and further adoption of this bill stems from the commitments of Ukraine under the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their member States. Also for the implementation of articles 367, 369 and Supplement 32 to the Treaty of Association by Government Order of 26. 12.14 A plan for the implementation of Directive 200868 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal transport of safe cargo has been approved and developed by the Ministry of Infrastructure. Taking into account the mentioned and ensuring full application of the requirements of the EU Directive to the national transport of dangerous goods, please support the draft Ukrainian Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u68	Thank you. Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich, head of the committee, is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u69	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The proposed bill to amend some legislative acts to comply with European Union legislation on the transport of dangerous goods (registration number 4644), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The draft law provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Laws on the Transport of Dangerous Goods and on Road Transport. This is an important and necessary bill because it is aimed at: first, the implementation of the plan for implementing the Association Agreement between Ukraine, in particular Directive 68 of the European Parliament and the Council on the internal transport of dangerous goods and the requirements of the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road, the Rules for International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Rail, the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Inland Waterways. Increasing the level of safety when transporting dangerous goods both internally and internationally. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council will generally support its adoption. The Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption concluded that the project met the requirements of anticorruption legislation. The European Integration Committee noted that the draft law did not conflict with Ukraine's international obligations. By Decision of the Transport Committee of 06.07. In 16 the Supreme Council of Ukraine was recommended to adopt the draft Law (registration number 4644) as a basis. Please support the adoption of Bill 4644 as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u70	Thank you. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. But let's really, really concisely, because there's general support so that we can adopt more bills. So, Ribak Ivan Petrovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. The "Block of Peter Prashenko" supports Bill 4644 on amending certain laws of Ukraine to bring them into line with European Union legislation on the transport of dangerous goods, because this bill is really long overdue. The point is that we are now using the base convention in the area of transporting dangerous goods related to the environment and hazardous waste. Today we must regulate these norms, in accordance with our legislation to the European Union's legislation. Improving and bringing these standards into line with EU standards also sets European standards, requirements and measures that will be required to comply with all trucks on road, rail and maritime transport. All of this in the complex will significantly increase the level of safety, especially for ordinary citizens, who may be at risk of technological accidents and disasters. That's why the Peter Prashenko faction calls on everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u72	Thank you. Please, Captain Olena Sergiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u73	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self Help Unit. Colleagues, in this case, I would like to express my position from the Committee on European Integration, as head of the subcommittee on the harmonization of European legislation, more specifically Ukrainian legislation towards EU legislation. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as of today, when the Free Trade Agreement is in place, whether it is a matter of convergence between Ukraine and EU member states, including logistics. This law, which we are adopting today, is allowing us to actually comply with the conditions of the directive under which article 4 itself provides 68 directives that third countries may carry out transport with EU member countries to the extent that they have implemented convention rules and other international requirements, such as the Directive and the Rules, to their national legislation. So, thanks to the adoption of this law, first of all, we meet these requirements, which means that we will be able to deal even more intensively with EU countries. And secondly, Ukraine is today, unfortunately, lagging behind in implementing Ukrainian legislation to EU legislation. The adoption of this law allows us to improve this situation. So I very much ask you to take the vote seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u74	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over, I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall, prepare for the decision. Please invite the deputies to the Chamber, we are moving on to a decision. There's a general position, there's general support for this bill. And I am voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to bring them into line with European Union legislation on the transport of dangerous goods (number 4644). The committee's asking for a basis, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote, please. [[11:21:23]] For 216 216, I see we're not there yet. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I'll put it on the way back, look who's not around, call me, invite me. I see, yes. So I'm going to put it on return. If that's the will of the hall, we'll come back, and then I'll put the proposal back on the ground. So please prepare for the vote, take the jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 4644. Please support me, please vote in favour of the return to the draft Law 4644. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:22:57]] For 228 We're back. Now I'm putting the vote on the ground. Please prepare yourself for making a decision. And I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation to bring them into line with European Union legislation on the transport of dangerous goods (number 4644). Based on a colleague, based on a foundation. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:23:40]] For 236 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. We go to the next draft of the transport block law, this is the draft law amending the Ukrainian Roads Act on Roads (number 4647). And I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it with a reduced procedure, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. We're voting for a reduced procedure. [[11:24:23]] For-161 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Minister of Infrastructure, Omelyan Vladimir Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u75	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! This bill aims to strengthen the defence of the state during the legal regime of the state of war, to regulate legislation on the use of defence roads during the period of the state of war and their technical cover-up. The bill proposes to supplement Ukraine's Roads Act with a new article that defines the concept of "roads of defence" and how to put road traffic into and use "roads of defence". The need to draft a bill is due to the fact that the concept of "roadways of defence" is not defined by law in the State, the authorities that are authorized to approve the list of defensive road routes, the roads that can be attributed to the roadways of such a category, the order in which they are used, the order in which they are built, the reconstruction, the repair, maintenance of the legal regime of war, and the order in which technical cover operations are carried out, both in peacetime and in wartime. Given the noted and high relevance of this issue in Ukraine, with a view to enhancing the security of our country, please support this draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u76	Thank you, Minister. Please give the floor for the report to the head of the profiling committee, Mr. Jaroslav Dubnevic. Please, Mr. Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u77	Madam Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed for a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Roads on Roads of Defense (Registration No. 4647, dated 11.05). 2016), introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This bill is very important for the security of the country and the preservation of the road economy, especially at a time when an anti-terrorist operation is being carried out in eastern Ukraine. The bill proposes to supplement the Ukrainian Roads Act with a new article 5/1, which defines the concept of "roads of defence", "ways of use and restoration of defence roads". The Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine and Ukraine and Ukraine supports the adoption of the bill, stressing the need for a legislative settlement of the issue of road defence. The bill was accepted without notice by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in general supported the bill. According to the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, the project meets the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine. According to the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption, the draft act meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. By a decision of the Transport Committee of 11.07.2016, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was recommended to adopt the draft law (registration number 4647) as a basis. Please support the adoption of Bill 4647 as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u78	Thank you, Sir Jaroslav. Colleagues, now, according to the Rules, we must register to discuss this bill. I'm asking the factions to sign in: two for, two for against, please. Please, Mrs. Belkova from Peter Dusty's Block. He's taking the floor to discuss Mr. Mamchure. Please. I've already handed over Mr. Mamchure. Mr. Pober, I saw your colleague Yuri Mamchure's first hand raised. Please, Mr. Julius.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u79	Very. May I have your attention, Your Honor? A very important bill. Dear colleagues, a very important bill, I fully support the introduction of such a sub-item to determine the road to military service. Considering that our country has been fighting with the Russian Federation for three years now, and for the mobility of the military, it has long been necessary to repair such roads so that they can be used for the mobility of the Armed Forces, and also for the use of aviation. So I ask everyone to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u80	Thank you, Mr. Julia. Please, from the People's Front, National Deputy Korchik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u81	Vitaly Korchik, People's Front. In view of recent events in the east, we certainly need to determine the status of roadblocks of defence to secure the defence of Ukraine, to unite military and other special objects assigned to military transport, to evacuate populations associated with the evacuation of cargo, and to national transportation. But the next thing you have to do is to rediscover and do everything you can to, God forbid, at a bad time they're in a decent position, and, as my colleagues asked, so many roads are in the Mikolai district, the Dnipropetrov region. Please pay attention to that. Thank you. And please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u82	Thank you, mate. Please, Taras Shepherd of Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u83	Taras Shepherd's Self-Help Unit, Ternopil. Our faction will definitely support this bill. This is indeed the right initiative of the Ministry. And I thank the committee, who also supported this initiative. But we're proposing to adopt this bill only in the first reading, because there's a number of valid comments from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which I think we're going to clean up or do their wishes for the second reading. But I would like to make one point, actually, about the speech of my previous colleague and the chairman of Mr. Jaroslav Dubnevic's committee. We allow one inaccuracies in our statements. The bill actually regulates the use of these roads in a state of war, not in the context of an anti-terrorist operation and events, as the previous colleague said, in the east. So in the state, we need to finally call things our names. And if it really takes this bill to work in the east, where the occupation of our territory now works, or the territory that is controlled by the Donetsk region and the Lugansk region. Then it should be called that there, in this territory, is a state of war, and then this law will be able to work in this territory, not in the context of an anti-terrorist operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u84	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, or all factions. Please, from Fatherland, Eutuszek. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u85	Sergey Eutuszek, the "Fatherland" faction, the Transport Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to say immediately that the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill, because the goal is to regulate relations in the way that the defensive road works. In fact, there are many such wonderful things that can be protected in the area of antiterrorist operations. Ukraine’s security, military and other special facilities. However, we do have a point. We believe that the bill can only be voted on in the first reading. What notes? The very reason for the government’s decision to put roadblocks on defensive roads is not clear. The project does not provide for a periodic review of the number of defence routes and the damage to road owners due to the actions of the legal regime of war. The faction will vote only on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u86	Thank you, colleagues. Did all the wanted factions come forward? There's no more wanters. Dear colleagues, we are now awaiting the return of our esteemed speaker and we are moving to a vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. And I'm also asking you to return all your colleagues to the session room, because there's going to be a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u87	Please come into the hall, prepare for the decision. Colleagues, we're taking up jobs. I'm inviting you to the hall. And I also ask you to invite members of your faction. Please, colleagues, the secretariat, please invite the deputies to the hall. Please take up your jobs. Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Roads Act on Roads of Defense (number 4647) on the basis of colleagues. Please take up jobs, this is not just a matter of transportation, this is a matter of security, and the defenses of our country, so I ask you to take a responsible approach to the vote, and I ask you to vote, and to support draft Law 4647 as a basis, colleagues. Vote, please. All the speakers supported the bill. [[11:35:27]] For 237 Decision taken. The law was adopted on the basis of 4647. Next draft of the Act amending the Code of Commercial Navigation of Ukraine (for the promotion of the development of shipping in Ukraine) (No. 2712) I would like to support the consideration of this bill by a summary procedure at the committee's suggestion. Please vote, please support. Short-term procedure, please vote. [[11:36:11]] For-166 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Kozir Boris Yuriovich. Who? Urban Alexander will report? Please, Mr. Alexander. That's desirable, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u88	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national MPs, bill 2712 amending the Ukrainian Code of Merchant Shipping (for the promotion of shipping in Ukraine) amends the Ukrainian Code of Merchant Shipping. Unfortunately, during all our years of independence, we see that not only the village but also our river is dying. There's a fleet missing, the Ukrainian river is actually standing. We've lost the potential and the glory of the water arteries. Therefore, this situation needs to be rectified immediately. The bill 2712 proposed to you is deregulation and anti-corruption. The bill will give impetus to a major state-wide campaign to restore shipping and freight transport on Dnipro, Dniester, and South Bouga. The investor, the business -- they're tired, they're waiting for changes and transparent rules. By Law 2712, we're actually opening up the river. First, we grant the right to natural persons entrepreneurs, whose property is vessels, to navigate inland waterways under the flag of Ukraine. Today, only legal persons who are registered in Ukraine have such a right. Secondly, we're cleaning out the rules for obtaining separate permission from the central executive authority to carry out cabotage transports by vessels under a foreign flag. The adoption of Bill 2712 will give impetus to the development of the river. Because of the development of the river, we will unload and secure, preserve our roads. New jobs will be created as a result of the development of the river. As a result of the development of the river, national and local budgets will be filled. For example, the longest river in the world in the Amazon fills the budget of five countries each year with $4 billion. Our Dnipro is the third river in Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u89	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Dublin Transport Committee, Jaroslav Vasilovich. Please, too. Please, Mr. Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u90	Dear Sir, distinguished national MPs! On June 3, 15, the Committee considered a draft Ukrainian law amending Ukraine’s Code of Merchandise Navigation (to promote the development of shipping in Ukraine). The adoption of the draft law will allow legislation to regulate the issue of the granting of the right to navigation under the national flag of Ukraine to ships belonging to legal persons created under foreign capital. This, in turn, will contribute to the large amount of foreign investment in the development of Ukrainian shipping, additional revenues to the state budget and local budgets from the registration of vessels and the economic activity of investors. Thus, the committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill to be adopted on the first reading as a basis. I also point out that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, in its conclusion of 29.05. For 15 years he supported the adoption of the project as a basis for the first reading. The Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine wrote to the committee to support the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out to you that in the 1980s there was one. 60-90 million tons per year were transported. This year, in the 16th, the rivers of Ukraine were transported to just 7.5 million tons. Last year there were 6.7 million tons. We need to open our rivers for shipping and allow large transport companies to transport goods that are now destroying our roadways through our rivers. Only we Ukrainians can sit like a dog in the blue and not give our river, Dniper, to work as a vessel’s arteries. I'm asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u91	Thank you. Colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please. Rosenblatt Boris Solomonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u92	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I really want us to support this bill because in every European country, rivers take much more transport flows than roads and everything else. I think of countries like Germany, Austria, others, Hungary, they all have opportunities to transport their goods and not kill their roads. Therefore, I believe that this bill needs to be supported immediately today. To enable the development of our annual transport, to enable our shipping and ship repair companies to have jobs to re-create jobs, build barges, build ships, and we had a developed country in transport order. So once again, I would like to urge you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u93	Thank you. Korczyk Vitaly Andryovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u94	Corchik Vitaly, People's Front faction. Dear friends, it is clear that existing standards create a serious barrier to the involvement of foreign investors in the domestic shipping market. The bill prevents the excessive regulation of our market, clears many different kinds of permits that similarly hinder our fast work on the river, and in general opens the way for our river to carry at least a quarter of those goods that are now and are being transported on Ukrainian highways. I ask all deputies to support this decision because the old codex is morally outdated and its standards and we need to open up and give new impetus to our river to develop. Thank you for your attention. And I'm asking you to support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u95	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Gusak Volodymyr Georgievic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u96	Dear Ukrainians, dear fellows! Welcome to New Year's Eve, and let 2017 be at least a little better than 2016. This bill is aimed at facilitating the replenishment of the fleet under the Ukrainian flag, as well as improving the conditions for cabotage transport. Cabotage is shipping by sea or river between ports located in one state. The issue of cabotage transport took on special significance after the start of hostilities in eastern Ukraine. In fact, the traditional routes of railway communication with the great Ukrainian industrial and port city of Mariupol were almost completely destroyed. And the major industries of Mariupol, the metallurgical combinations almost stopped. In this situation, supplies to Mariupol by sea through other ports in Ukraine were an alternative. And we were faced with a situation where there were simply no vessels available for these transports. And the attempt to include ships under a foreign flag led to the fact that often due to the untimely receipt of permission from the appropriate authority of the executive authority, the raw material did not reach Mariupol. Businesses lost their production. And Ukraine has lost tens of millions of dollars of currency revenue and taxes. This license, by the way, is just a source of corruption. This bill proposes that it be repealed. It's a real deregulation, it's a real deregulation, and at least some kind of economic support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u97	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u98	And that's why we support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u99	Thank you. From "The Fatherland" Evtusek Sergei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u100	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! I want to say that the faction will support this bill. We can even support it as a whole, but under the terms of article 32 of the Ukrainian Merchant Maritime Code, in the last paragraph, the words "exclusion of vessels owned by citizens of the aggressor State." And the introduction to Article 131 of Cabotage Transport also, in the last paragraph, of the words "exclusion of vessels owned by citizens of the aggressor State." We all remember the times when our rivers served as arteries and vessels for the economy. Roads need to be unloaded immediately, and river networks need to be able to carry out transportation and to fill in the proceeds. Fatherland is ready to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u101	Thank you. Please, Vadaturski, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I agree that this is indeed a deregulation. But please name another country that has the same deregulation. What are we doing? We actually legalize offshores in the middle of the country, we do it during the war. Think about it. We'll put a dot on the shipbuilding. We have nine factories that still have about 20,000 people to work on. Today we will lose the reconstruction of the Ukrainian fleet. Who's going to pay taxes, who's going to pay the excise on fuel that's going to be used on rivers? We have to make the river attractive and then we'll load the shipbuilding plants that will restore our Ukrainian fleet. Please don't vote for these shameful bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u103	Colleagues, discussion is over. All those who wanted to speak. We can move on to making a decision. Colleagues, I'm asking all national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for a decision. Please, the secretariat of the Supreme Council, please invite the deputies to the Hall. Please, as the deputies enter, the closing statement to the head of the committee of Dubnevic Jaroslav. And tell us about 2713, how to proceed. Please, Mr. Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u104	Dear national deputies, an example of what we are. What our colleague has just said is that what we're allegedly opening up to the offshore is the same motivation at the time was to ban and only bring in five days of foreign registration cars if a Ukrainian citizen drives a car. And what did this lead to? Now there are terrible lines on the border, because people have to cross the border every five days. The question of the warlord. Now that we're a war country, we're opening rivers. Yes, we're opening rivers to make our Ukrainian economy rise from its knees. Yes, we're opening up rivers because rail transport, Debalts and other major railway nodes, unfortunately, are now occupied by an aggressor, and we don't have the ability to transport goods by electric means by rail. Yes, our roads that are being repaired, which we cut off, and we leave on the roads, are being destroyed by large - scale transportation. Yes, I support Ukrainian manufacturers and Ukrainian carriers. And Nibulon this year, honor and praise, carried 2 million cargoes by river. And we need 60 to 80 million, we need 30 to 40 nebulons to come in, we need to invest money now, and we need to rebuild the infrastructure on the rivers, and we need to start working, and our famous Dnipro is showing better results than the Danube River, which works in the European community. Thank you for your attention and please support!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u105	Thank you. So we're moving on to making a decision. Please take up your jobs. Fellow MPs! Colleagues, from the government's bed! Colleagues, so that I don't name my last name, please, from the government's bed, we're going to make a decision. I'm asking you to take your seats. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Code of Trade Navigation of Ukraine (for promoting the development of shipping in Ukraine) (number 2712) on the basis of colleagues. The committee proposes only on a basis. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:52:15]] For 215 There are ten votes missing. I'll put it back once. I'm asking the heads of the faction and the committee to mobilize the deputies, and I'll put them back once. Please invite the deputies to the hall. So if you want to take jobs, I'll put you on the way back. Colleagues, may I put it to the vote now? Please, everyone, please mobilize who will back our bill. And I'm voting back to voting for bill 2712. Please vote, please support the return to 2712. Vote, colleagues, please. Vote. [[11:53:49]] For 224 Two votes. I'll put it again, I understand that two votes are. Please invite MPs, some of the deputies are simply not at work. We can't wait for them to run. So, colleagues, everyone's taken jobs? So, colleagues, please take up jobs, please prepare to make a decision. Andrew Volodymyrovich, your vote is not enough to pass the law. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 2712, my colleague. Whoever supports the proposal, the return to the law, please vote, please support, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:55:29]] For 229 We're back. And now I'm laying the groundwork. So, colleagues, the draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Trade Navigation of Ukraine (2712) is only based. All amendments can be made to the second reading. On the basis of this vote, please support 2712 as a basis. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:56:07]] For 234 Decision taken. Hello. The next draft of Law 2713, but the author asks that it be removed. Please explain your position, head of the committee, one minute, explain your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u106	Bill 2713 is requested by the authors to withdraw and consider Bill 2713-d, which is in line with the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u107	So we're looking at them, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u108	2713-d.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u109	Okay, we're going to look at the next 2713 and 2713-d. 2713-d. Colleagues, I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. I'm asking you to stay put. I'm asking you to support the hearing. Colleagues, head of the committee, let's consult, three minutes before recess, shall we come in now or after recess? Now? Colleagues, then mobilize, let's try it now. Everyone, please mobilize, and I'm proposing a reduced procedure of 2713-d. Please vote, please support. [[11:57:37]] For a hundred and Let's start the discussion. I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Urban Affairs, Alexander Igorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, I welcome everyone once again. Draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine (for facilitating the development of shipping in Ukraine) (2713-d) is systematically related to the draft law that was discussed earlier. The Ukrainian maritime transport sector is experiencing difficult times, and we are seriously losing transit routes. The unstable situation in the country, on the one hand, holds foreign investors back, on the other hand, it limits budgetary resources and complicates the implementation of investment projects at its own expense. For example, in 1993 the rivers of Ukraine transported, Dniprom, 60 million tons, unfortunately we now have only 5 million tons of transport. So we need to do something about it. And about. The previous bill, they open a river for cargo owners and shipowners. There are risks of losing the competitiveness of the national transport system. We're catastrophically losing transit potential. In order to facilitate the management of shipping activities, a draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine (to promote the development of shipping in Ukraine) has been developed. The draft law aims at reducing arbitrary procedures for cabotage transport, re-establishing vessels on the inland waterways of Ukraine by lifting the ban on inland transport in Ukrainian customs territory by maritime annual vessels temporarily placed in the customs regime for importation. In order to achieve the stated goal, the bill proposes to exclude, in part one of article 97 of the Customs Code of Ukraine, a provision on the need to obtain the permission of the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine to carry out cabotage transport, temporarily, I would stress, temporarily by 1 January 2022, to exempt from customs duties on imports of marine goods.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u111	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u112	Temporarily, by January 1, 2022, free from taxes on the import of seagoing vessels into Ukraine. The exemption will be granted on condition that this company that wants to enter this ship will use it in a bebbout or a time charter, and this company will be registered in Ukraine. So we're going to be filling out our budgets and our local budgets and our national budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u113	Thank you. You know, the longer you report, the less likely you are to accept it. That's why I'm asking you to finish. Please report from the Southern Committee, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u114	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! In the process of discussing this bill at the October 5th Committee meeting. In 2016 a number of comments were made by members of the Committee. They basically applied to companies that would use such foreign vessels to pay all the taxes in Ukraine's state budget. It was therefore the decision to amend the law and to make such changes only to allow for the complete exemption from customs duties on temporary importation of ships by companies that would use them under the Berbout Charter and Time Charter contracts that the author of the bill, i.e. exclusively residents of Ukraine, had just said, would be used. And this tax benefit was fixed for a period of five years, until 2022. Taking into account the Committee's decision, recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted on a basis that has been elaborated on the committee, that is, registration number 2713-d. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u115	Thank you. So, colleagues, this is actually an extension of the previous bill. I'm reporting that I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. But I'm asking you to have a very brief discussion right now and move on to making a decision. Are they willing to discuss the bill? Yes. Turn on "two for", two for "against", please. Please don't break up, stay in the workplace. Corchik Vitaly Andryovich, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I ask you not to waste time discussing this bill, it is necessary, necessary, and as soon as possible before adoption. Because there are times when we just give our business just the benefits. We release different permits and facilitate cabotage. So I ask everyone to support this bill. The People's Front faction will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u117	Please don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u118	Please pass the word to Maxim Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u119	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies! We certainly have to vote in favour of this law today, because this bill is indeed reformist because it is modeling a new architecture for inland transport in Ukraine. We're starting to use our own potential for our great river Dnipro. It's not just a reformist law, it's also a deregulation, because it cancels the feudal order that we've had in Ukraine over the past 25 years, we cancel anyone's getting unnecessary permission to use domestic cabotage transport by water. Friends, today only the chosen ones can use it, and we have to create equal opportunities and open up the market. It's time to open our locks, and it's time to create opportunities for inland navigation and the development of modern Dnipro infrastructure. Friends, we create jobs, we pay taxes, we develop. Ukraine is Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u120	Please, Odarchenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u121	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. This bill contains two standards. The first is to cancel the receipt of a separate permit for the carriage of cabotage to foreign vessels. This is indeed a long-standing norm, since this permit is now more formal. We don't regulate the market because of these permits, it's just an element that keeps carriers from working. In addition, there are corruption risks in the area of permits when money speeds up their acquisition. But there's a very big "but" in the second innovation, it's very controversial. It is proposed to allow the temporary importation of river and seagoing vessels for inland transport without payment of duty. You know that when a ship makes international transport, no one pays for entry into Ukraine for the ship itself, but with the understanding that it will certainly return abroad. Here it is proposed to allow such a vessel to be introduced on a temporary but very long-lasting basis, to use it exclusively within the customs territory of Ukraine and not to collect duties for that period. Regrettably, the bill does not provide an estimate of the budget for this benefit. At the same time, in a revised draft, the committee proposes to do this by experimenting: allowing this entry for 5 years. This will allow them to control what they think is a change in the budget. I think this bill should be sent for further work. First, figure out what the budget is going to be, and don't create such a hole in taxes. Taxes. Tomorrow, the same benefits will come from motorists. What makes them worse than water carriers? So I propose that this bill be sent for work that entails serious budget losses.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u122	Gusak Vladimir Georgievic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u123	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, dear Head! It's very good that we're discussing transport and infrastructure today, because the situation in this area is so difficult that it's already threatening the entire economy of Ukraine. I have already talked about the problems associated with the destruction of traditional railway routes in eastern Ukraine. We should say that the situation has improved slightly since 2014. And thanks to the efforts and the new leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the new leadership of the Cruise Stations, the Cruise Station has reconstructed part of the railway route to Mariupol, which is going through a territory that is completely controlled by Ukraine, and has become a little easier. But first of all, even after the reconstruction, this path doesn't allow the Mariupol industry to work at full capacity, and second of all, the Crucifixion has a terrible problem: it can't buy diesel fuel. As a result, transportation in Ukraine is almost halted for about a week or so. And in such a situation, cabotage shipments come again. That's why we're going to support bills that contribute to the work of the Ukrainian industry, including this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u124	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction of Ostrike, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u125	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. This bill is indeed necessary. To clear the roads, first of all, and to protect them from destruction and at the same time load the river. Because the potential of river transports, such as agrarian products, pouring, construction goods, metal, is not being used for full capacity today. This is said to be due to the absence of river transport vessels. And here's the question: why, then, does the Tax Code have VAT benefits from income tax for shipbuilding companies? This bill is an example of the State’s inconsistent fiscal policy. Thanks to my position on the relief committee, it will be limited to five years. So we're only willing to support it on the basis and make this benefit temporary and study the position of our domestic carriers using river transport. On the basis of this, we can vote, and we must wait for Parliament’s position on a systematically binding bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u126	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u127	And also, colleagues, I remind you that it is systematically related to Bill 2712, which we previously considered and did not make a decision on it, namely, on arbitrary procedures. Therefore, it can now be voted solely on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u128	So the discussion is over. I ask the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite deputies to the Hall and ask the factions to invite deputies to the Hall. We're moving on to making a decision. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine (for the promotion of shipping in Ukraine) (number 2713-d) only as a basis. All warnings can be processed between the first and the second readings. So I ask everyone to prepare for the vote on the basis of 2713-d. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[12:12:54]] For-188. Colleagues, may I make the next proposal for re-reading the first reading, or will there be support for such an offer? It will, won't it? Return to the committee for further work. Colleagues, let's go around that, I see, there are discussions and votes. Let's put the proposal back on the committee for further work, let's unite around this proposal. Okay? Dode, I'm proposing to return the draft of Law 2713-d to the committee for further elaboration. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Let's vote, please vote, please support. [[12:13:46]] For 209 I will make another final suggestion to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. Colleagues, the discussion is over, now we're just voting. I propose to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. Please vote, please support. So please support this proposal. [[12:14:21]] For 208 This proposal is not supported either. That's why Bill 2713-d, 2713 rejected, colleagues. So we've almost finished the transport block as planned. And now, according to the Rules, there's a break for half an hour -- till 12:45. At 12:45, please all return to the hall to continue our not simple but important work for the Fatherland. So, colleagues, 12:45.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! The time allocated for the break is over. And we're moving on to the next issue of the agenda that yesterday at the conciliatory council was asked to put two committee heads in order of the day: from the Committee on Transport Affairs of the Andriyevsky and Dubnevsky of the Committee on Transport. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving urban activities. I would like to point out that we have passed the entire transport block, almost all the bills proposed by the committee and the ministry have been adopted. And now we're going to draft Law 4733-1. This is the second reading, which has a lot of amendments. I ask the amendment authors to prepare themselves for discussion, for work. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing of Andriyev Dmitry Josephovich. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Andrija Volodymyrovich! An extremely important law is proposed for second reading. At its meeting on November 16, 16, the committee decided to submit to the Supreme Council a second reading of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Urban Development. In preparing the bill for the second reading, 276 proposals and rights were made to the committee by legal entities, of which 179 were partially and editorially taken into account. Of the 97 rejected 26 rights came with violations of part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, which was not part of the bill that was adopted as a basis. I want to say that during this time, there was a working group on the committee that held several meetings. And very fruitful work was done with the members of the Supreme Council, the assistants, the public organizations, who tried to make the most of the right proposals. As a result of the work, the councils were able to reach agreement on the principles of the law. I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, that in 2012 the balance of interests between the community and the builders was disrupted during the reform. Construction objects were divided into five categories of complexity, with the first three being allowed to build according to the declarant principle, but the difference between the third and the fourth categories remained conditional. This created, unfortunately, a space for significant manipulations of unscrupulous builders, for example, mid - class objects of responsibility could be started to build according to the declarant principle and the Sustainable Control, and the Sustainable Control authorities were able to verify the content of the documents, but they did not. Only the availability of documents, not their content. And it created a space for abuse and building affairs by builders to be overly sorry, some of the builders who turned out not to be very good. This bill, which is being proposed for the second reading today, will actually allow 85 percent of buildings to be built, which is about buildings, residential buildings, farm buildings, warehouses of up to a thousand meters to build according to the stated principle, i.e. it sent out an application -- you can start building. On the other hand, complex objects will need to be tested and will be built after granting appropriate permission. Dear colleagues, Mr. Golovo, please consider this bill, taking into account the provisions of the Ukrainian Act No. 1791-VIII of 20.12.16, which took effect on 1 January 2017 on changing the basis of fines not in the minimum wage, but in the subsistence minimum, since the second reading table was prepared earlier. Also, dear colleagues, much was involved in the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u131	Please give me another minute to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u132	During the discussion of the bill, discussions were raised on the issues of the population, which were passed on to the medium - to - mid - to - mid - to - mid - to - mid - to - day authorities. It was an amendment that caused a lot of debate, and I just want to inform my self-help colleague that, I'm sure, we're going to find a compromise and we're going to suggest that we count these points from 90,000 people. I want to explain. Given that there was a legislative possibility of obtaining appropriate powers, but unfortunately, very many cities, for example, all the cities in the capital city, yes, where there were 100,000 people, except the White Church, received such authorizations, but many of the smaller cities did not apply for appropriate powers, but at the same time it was changed by 20 percent in terms of the reduction of the number, the actual number of DABIs. This gives rise to a certain administrative administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u133	30 seconds. Now, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u134	Excuse me, please. Vacuum. But what we're proposing is that we say, "populated locations up to 90,000." In doing so, I would like to point out that all the population points that have already been given such powers will continue to do so. Cities with a population of less than 90,000 will be able to obtain these powers during the transition period of four months. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u135	Thank you. So let's go to the right. And the right-wing authors please prepare for honest, effective and active work. So, number 10, National MP Sažko. Don't insist. 11th National MP Melnik. Don't insist. 12th People's Deputy Sold. Don't insist. 14th, Melnik. Don't insist. 16th, Screwdriver. Don't insist. 17th, Souslaw. Don't insist. 18th, Levenchenko. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u136	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. This is my right to ensure that architects and other designers are responsible for taking public interest into account in design. The thing is, I'm very often approached by voters about illegal forgetfulness. And we see that one of the main reasons is not only that the builder is not conscientious, but not only that the controlling authority is improperly fulfilling its duties, but one problem is that the designers and architects themselves initially create completely illegal, wrong documents that do not meet the state-building standards that do not meet the local construction standards. And who then essentially create indulgence for the proper illegal forgetfulness. So, of course, there has to be a responsibility not only to the builder himself, there has to be responsibility not only for the controlling body, but also for those who design, for architects and for those who prepare these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u137	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u138	Thank you. My colleagues, thank you, Yuri Lewchenk, for this amendment. I want to say that it was, unfortunately, a violation of the Rules. So she was rejected by the committee. But I would like to thank the national deputy Lehchenk for his very active work on this law. Most of these rights, which Mr. George introduced, are included by the committee in the substantive part of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u139	Thank you. You insist, don't you, on the vote? Please put to the vote, amendment No. 18 of National MP Yuri Lewchenk. May I have the vote, Your Honorable People's Deputies? [[12:56:02]] For-90
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u140	The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the next one. Amendment 19, People's Chamber of Commerce doesn't insist. Amendment 20, National Deputy Natalia Novak does not insist. Amendment 21, National Deputy Karpuntsov does not insist. Amendment 22, National Deputy Karpuntsov, does not insist. Amendment 23, National Deputy Karpuntsov does not insist. Amendment 24, National Deputy Karpuntsov does not insist. Amendment number 25, National Deputy Karpuntsov does not insist. Amendment number 26, National Deputy Karpuntsov does not insist. Amendment number 28, National Deputy Karpuntsov does not insist. Amendment 29, National Deputy Karpuntsov does not insist. Amendment No. 30, National MP Lewchenko does not insist. Amendment 34, National MP Novak does not insist. Amendment 37, People's Deputy Sold. Don't insist. Amendment 39, National MP Novak. Don't insist. Amendment number 41, National Deputy of Georges. Don't insist. Amendment 42, People's Deputy Levchenko. Don't insist. Amendment No. 43, People's Deputy Sold. Don't insist. Amendment 44, People's Deputy Levchenko. Don't insist. Amendment 46, People's MP Sphenov. Don't insist. Amendment number 47, national deputy sold. Don't insist. Amendment number 48, People's Deputy Levchenko. Please turn on the microphone to the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u141	Thank you. Madam Chairman, I have a number of amendments starting in 57th. If you don't mind, I don't insist on 57, because there are some fundamental moments, and then we'll go back to them to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u142	Okay. Thank you. Amendment number 54, National Deputy of Georges. Don't insist. 56th National Deputy Karpuntsov. Don't insist. 58th People's Deputy of Kryvoshea. Uh, 57, excuse me. National MP Lewchenko, Amendment 57.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u143	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Madam Chairman, Mrs. Oksano, I am addressing you, the point is that in order to save time and take responsibility for this job, I have nine amendments that apply to the same subject. I'm going to announce them now, and I'd like to speak out of them at the same time, because the committee has divided them technically, but this is the same subject. There's no point in talking about others if the first one doesn't go through and so forth. So this is about amendment 57, amendment 63, 74. You just write down the vote for all of these: 57, 63, 74, 81, 103, 106, 115, 133, 162. These are the nine amendments. If you'll just give me two minutes, I'll give him a report and a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u144	Just give me one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u145	Society, these amendments all apply, indeed, to the fact that the bill has many positive innovations. Indeed, I can tell you how a person who is constantly fighting in a district against illegal oblivion and in Kiev in general against the building vacchanal, this bill greatly improves the situation in relation to today's reality. But there's one, I think, that's a significant flaw that I've been trying to correct with my amendments that I'd like them to go through right now, or at least to be determined about them, it's a matter of public hearings. The thing is, in fact, it's not going to be possible to beat a mob in the country until we have an effective public hearing mechanism. What does that mean? What must be such a mechanism that without the permission of the inhabitants of the surrounding buildings, land exploration cannot be initiated, adequate urban documentation cannot be issued, appropriate permits cannot be issued, construction cannot be started at all. And this should apply not only to direct construction but also to the adoption of a detailed plan of territories, of plans. Now we see in the current legislation that there are public hearings about the DPT, but in Kiev, in the capital, these are totally fictitious public hearings, which are not actually happening, detailed plans of the territory are illegally approved without the knowledge of the community. So these are all my amendments, these nine amendments, they're all about bringing in real public hearings. So that this is not some kind of advisory hearing, so that they have the very permissive character. Without the permission of the community or community that lives around the immediate site of the barrier, either the active one, or the future, or the wider community, when it comes to the DPT and the master plan. So it's without the permission of the community that these things don't happen. I am convinced that without such changes, without the direct peoples of the world, without the direct peoples of the world, there will be no real opportunity to fight against illegal structures, no real opportunity to fight against the building mafia. So I encourage the Hall to vote in favour of these nine amendments, this is a total of nine amendments that deal with one question, so that we really have serious public hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u146	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. I think you'll agree that we'll put it to a 63rd vote. If she doesn't get the votes, it'll be obvious, because you know we can't all. We can't make all the adjustments at the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u147	Mrs. Oksana, may I explain to you ladies?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u148	Yes, please explain first.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, I, Mr. Yuri, once again want to thank you for your fruitful work, for working with the committee in the working groups. As far as public hearings are concerned, I want to assure you that, first of all, very many of these positions are taken into account by higher legislation. We invite you, too, to work on a bill on planning documentation for the united territorial communities. So all of these things that you're concerned about, they actually have a place to be, but they're going to be taken fully into account in other bills. Sadly, it was not even possible. Take it all into account in the same bill. And thank you again for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u150	Thank you. So we're putting Amendment 57 to the vote first, and it's clear that there's a need to support all of the other amendments of the Lewchenk People's Deputies that apply to public participation. Please put to the vote Amendment 57. Please vote. [[13:03:11]] For 101 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Amendment number 58, People's Deputy of Kryvoshia. Don't insist. Regarding 59th, please, National Deputy Berezak. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u151	This was the case when the philosophy of the bill changed dramatically between the first and second readings. When we voted before the first reading for a bill that allows cities to develop their control services, architecture and the construction of the quality of cities, we received a draft for the second reading, which centralizes and returns everything that happens in the country by 2006, so that the money suitcases can be transported to Kiev and to the district centers. This is unacceptable. So we think that this 59th amendment, which changes the whole essence and philosophy of the law, should be put in place for confirmation. We cannot allow vulgar centralization of despotic processes to be dependent on measures now not only on political issues but also on the development of their cities. You say they can't because we took them and now you don't want to teach them again. We want the country to develop through small, medium and large cities, not through Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u152	Thank you. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u153	Thank you for asking. And once again, I would like to remind you that really not in 1996, but in 2011, there was an appropriate reform that violated that balance. You know, we've made a very substantial change in decentralization legislation, and all the cities have actually been given an appropriate opportunity, and the right, most of them, unfortunately, have not yet taken advantage of that right. There's a transition period, four months to be used, but there's a situation where the new organs in the cities aren't being created, and at the center of what a respectable colleague says, there's a reduction in the states, and there's a certain administrative vacuum, the cities don't want, and the same DABI central can't anymore. So we're proposing a compromise like I read to leave this right outside the cities of 90,000 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u154	Thank you. You insist. Please place on confirmation the number 59 National MP of Souslow Irina, please. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u155	Colleagues, please support. [[13:06:03]] Z-77
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u156	Amendment 59, not supported. Amendment 61, National Deputy Karpuntsov. Don't insist. Amendment number 62, National Deputy of Georges. Please turn on the microphone to the National MP, George.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u157	Colleagues, I, lest I take the word afterward, will comment in general by law. You know, it's a good idea to beat the builders, we support them in general, to fight against illegal construction. But under the terms of the fight against illegal oblivion, there is actually a reversal of decentralization reform and the transfer of authority. I took part-time work in the working groups on this bill when the DABI representatives said that we handed over the authority, and you know, they started building very bad things there, and they needed to take it back. When we ask, who was given authority? So it turns out a little less than 50 communities just handed over their powers. In fact, the reform of decentralization was sabotaged by DABI itself in order not to transfer these powers and leave them behind. If this law is voted out, I'm sorry, you're not going to build a barn. More or less interesting construction has to agree with the DABI center, and you're just going to be carrying money there. So please let us allow local communities to be self-sufficient, to create their own organs and to be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u158	Thank you. You insist. No, it's not. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, I want to tell you again and again to assure you that this law does not take any further powers. We are trying to bring about a system of construction that has unfortunately been disrupted by the changes that have taken place in recent times. Of the cities that number 100,000 or more, almost everyone, except the White Church, received such authorizations. We haven't received six district centers yet, but that's the right behind them. In small cities there is still time, four months, when such authorizations can be obtained. But if we don't give the DR authorities the ability to intervene in the urban situation, we're going to get a real vacuum and collapse. So there's not going to be any organs in places, and there's just no one at the center to regulate.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u160	Thank you. Amendment number 64, People's Deputy of Semimenah. Don't insist. Amendment 70, Babak, does not insist. Amendment 71, People's MP Sold. Don't insist. Amendment 73, National MP Novak. Don't insist. Number 75, National Deputy Sold. Don't insist. Amendment number 76, National Deputy Ivchenko. Don't insist. Amendment 90, People's MP Sphenov. Don't insist. Amendment 95, National MP Novak. Don't insist. Amendment 98, People's Deputy Sold. Don't insist. Amendment number 104, People's Deputy Novak. Don't insist. Amendment 107, National MP Novak. Don't insist. Amendment 108, People's Deputy Sold. Don't insist. Amendment number 109, People's MP Melnik. Don't insist. Amendment 118, National MP Novak does not insist. Amendment 120, People's Deputies do not insist. Amendment number 125, National MP Novak does not insist. Amendment 130, National MP Sažko does not insist. Amendment 137, People’s Deputy Guljavav does not insist. Amendment number 138, Babak. Don't insist. 139th National Deputy Babak. Don't insist. Amendment No. 144, People's Deputy Novak. Don't insist. Amendment No. 145, national deputy Babak. Don't insist. Amendment No. 147, People's MP Melnik. Don't insist. Amendment 152, National MP Novak. Don't insist. Amendment 153, People's Deputy Sažko. Don't insist. Amendment 157, People's MP Melnik. Don't insist. Amendment 163, People's MP Melnik. Don't insist. Amendment 167, People's Deputy Novak. Don't insist. Amendment No. 168, People's Deputy Guljav. Don't insist. Amendment No. 169, National Deputy Babak. Don't insist. Amendment No. 170, National Deputy Sold. Don't insist. Amendment number 174, People's Deputy Karpuntsov. Don't insist. Amendment No. 175, National MP. Don't insist. Amendment number 178, National Deputy Georges. Don't insist. Amendments Nos. 179 and 180, national deputy of Georges. Don't insist. Amendment No. 183, People's Deputy Karpuntsov. Don't insist. Amendment No. 185, People's Deputy of Georges. Don't insist. Amendment No. 186, People's Deputy Levchenko. Don't insist. Amendment No. 188, National Deputy Babak. Don't insist. Amendment No. 189, People's Deputy Novak. Don't insist. Amendment 210, National Deputy Georges. Don't insist. Amendment 211, People's MP Melnik, does not insist. Amendment No. 229, People's Deputy Levchenko. Please turn on the microphone to National MP Levchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u161	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I'd like to take this opportunity, I don't insist directly on this amendment, I'd like to take this opportunity to go to the hall, because I see that, unfortunately, there aren't enough deputies. I see that there are different reactions to this bill. I would like to emphasize once again that as a real major who works daily in the district, I fight in Kiev against these illegal forgets every day. Unfortunately, several times a month I have been asked by voters to stop an illegal building because of the destruction of their living space. Yeah, it's an imperfect bill, yeah, there's a question for him. But if you compare the existing legislation that it allows the controlling authorities to stop illegal fences and what the bill introduces, it is much better. This is said by the man who made hundreds of amendments to this bill, who were not all counted, but many were counted. So I call on the deputies to come back and vote in favour of this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u162	Thank you. Amendment 230, National MP Novak. Don't insist. Amendment No. 231, People's Deputy Levchenko. Don't insist. Amendment No. 232, People's Deputy Levchenko. Don't insist. Amendment 233, People's Deputy Novak. Don't insist. Amendment No. 238, People's Deputy Levchenko. Don't insist. Amendment 239, People's MP Melnik. Don't insist. Amendment 243, People's Deputy Levchenko. Don't insist. Amendment 245, People's Deputy Levchenko. Don't insist. Amendment 247, People's Deputy Levchenko. Don't insist. Amendment No. 256, People's Deputy of Sphenov. Don't insist. Amendment No. 264, People's Deputy of Georges. Don't insist. Amendment 265, People's Deputy of Krivoshia. Don't insist. Amendment No. 266, People's Deputy Levchenko. Don't insist. Amendment 267, People's Deputy Levchenko. Don't insist. Amendment 274, People's Deputy Odarchenko. Don't insist. Amendment 276, People's Deputy Sažko. Don't insist. We completed our consideration of the amendments. Yes, I'd like to speak to the head of the committee. And in the meantime, I'd like to ask the people's deputies to return to the hall to take part in the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I once again appeal to you for the support of this law. Again, I would like to refer to the words of my colleague the Mayor of Kiev, Yuri Lewchenka. As a mayor of Kiev, I also associate myself with these words that we are constantly approached by our voters who are asking to intervene in the situation of illegal construction. Unfortunately, today’s legislation does not provide much. So this law is extremely important. And for self-help colleagues, I would still like to go back to 59 repairs, and maybe we'll put in not a hundred thousand, but 50,000 people, this position will be compromising. I'm sure you can support this bill. Again, I return and point out that this bill is imperfect, of course, there are no perfect laws. But this is a very important step towards making order in the construction sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u164	Thank you, Your Honor. So we're done discussing the draft law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. 59. Amendment. So, colleagues, I'm asking all the national deputies to come to the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies into the Hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies to the Hall. Let's move on to making a decision. The committee head is asking for confirmation at 59th, right? Turn on the microphone to explain the head of the committee, the representative of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u165	No, no, wait, wait. First of all, I'm talking to our self-help colleagues. There was a compromise offer that arose during the discussion. I'm proposing 59 amendments protocolly now under the transcript to change 100,000 by 50,000 to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u166	I'll put this proposal to the vote. If it is supported and then we go to voting the law as a whole. So, everyone please prepare to make a decision, go into the hall. Now I'm going to make a proposal from a committee representative. He's offering 57 amendments. At 59, it's 100 thousand to change by 20,000. I'm 50 years old. Did I spell it right? So first, I'm going to put this proposal to the vote for the first deputy head of the committee, and then we're going to go to the vote for the law as a whole. Please prepare for the vote, colleagues, please. And I'm voting on the proposal of the first deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction and the Andriyev Dmitry Josephovich's PHK to change the amount of 100,000 to 50,000 at 59. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Vote. [[13:18:31]] For 214 214, we're not there. They're close to coming back. Guys, I'll put it back on. I'm taking a 30-second break. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I'm going to put this motion to the vote again. I would like to stress that this is a proposal from the committee, a compromise. This proposal can help in the adoption of the law. So I ask you to take up your jobs and get ready for the vote. So I'm going to rephrase. In amendment 59, the committee proposes that 100,000 be replaced by 50,000. And the committee is calling this amendment a compromise. So I ask everyone to take the job, and I'll put her to the vote again, and then we'll move on to the adoption of the law. So I'm voting on the proposal of Andriew's Dmitry Josephic amendment 59. Whoever supports this proposal is to replace 100,000 by 50,000, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:20:09]] For 226 Correction supported. Now we go to the vote for the bill itself. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving urban activities (4733-1) as proposed by a second reading committee and as a whole. Whoever supports this bill, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:20:53]] For 238. The law is passed. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Next question is in order of the day. Excuse me, statement. There's a statement from two factions. Oleg Valeriyovich, from which factions? Self-help and the Radical Party are filing a recess announcement, but they're ready to replace the break with a speech. And it's going to come from two factions. Please don't break up, there won't be a break, it'll just be three minutes. And I invite you from two factions to Oleg Valeriovich Lalashka. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u167	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen, last year, you and I here in Parliament, with great efforts against the lobbyists, have chosen a moratorium on banning the removal of roundwood from Ukraine. What we did it for, who doesn't know. In order for the Ukrainians to have a job. If someone -- or Europeans, or anyone -- wants our forest, they have to export unprocessed forests from Ukraine, but bring them here, to Ukraine, woodworking equipment, put them here in Ukraine, create furniture, floors, boards, give jobs to Ukrainians, pay taxes to Ukrainian budgets, and export our processed forest. What do they want instead? From the authorities, I demand that the government cancel the moratorium for 600 million euros of credit, we have already collected those loans billions, our children and grandchildren will repay these loans, they have been stolen, and millions of Ukrainians are begging for jobs without pay, without having the opportunity to feed their families. So I want to say that anyone who wants to cancel the moratorium on the removal from Ukraine of the rough forest is the people who are taking jobs from Ukrainian citizens who are prescribing Ukraine to begging and the Ukrainians are not able to feed their families. So we say that Ukraine should not be a raw addition to the strong world of this, but Ukraine should be a high-tech, modern, key, Ukrainian citizen’s job, an opportunity for Ukrainians to feed their children and their families. All those who oppose this policy, all who want to turn Ukraine into an orphan are the enemies of Ukraine, the enemies of the Ukrainians, the enemies of the Ukrainian child who wants to live with their own forests, their own country, they want to live with dignity, many want to live. That's why the Radical Party, our team, announced a children's all-U.S. competition, "We'll save the forest, we'll save Ukraine." Thousands of children, thousands of Ukrainian children responded and painted the competition. I want to show you a picture of Anastasia Tanasijichuk from Kiev. Look at these pictures. This is what Ukrainian children want to see — green, happy, rich, clean, and successful. Our children want to see the forest, not in museums with dinosaurs, but our children want to see a living green forest and a living, rich, worthy Ukraine! Do not deprive the children of their dream!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. This is the draft Financial Regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (number 5573). And there's a proposal for us to consider this draft regulation on a simplified procedure. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:25:19]] For 131 I'll do it again. Everyone please take up their jobs. Colleagues, we still have a lot of important bills ahead of us. We have a block of ecology that we need to consider. If we go into full reading right now, we can't get to the environmental block. That's why I'm asking everyone, colleagues, Mr. Zubko, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Please invite MPs into the hall, take jobs, colleagues. I'm re-voting the proposal, the consideration of the draft Decree 5573 on a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Please, colleagues, please back up, vote. Please support, summary procedure, consideration. Vote, fellows! [[13:26:25]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u169	Dear Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 35, of the Constitution for the approval of the High Council's funds, belong to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The provisions of part four of article 7 of the Rules provide that the funds of the Supreme Council shall be approved by Parliament at the time of the adoption of the State Budget Act for the year in question in the second reading, at the conclusion of the committees to which the Rules and the Budget are subject. The Committee on Rules, the organization of the work of the Supreme Council at its meeting on December 7th, 16th, decided to introduce a draft decree on financial security for the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, one of which is proposed to approve the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2017. The proposed draft regulation was also supported by the December 21, 2016, Committee on Budget Affairs. The Committee on Budget Issues recommended that the Supreme Council consider the issue of the project of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's funding at the time of the adoption of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2017 on second reading. The first draft of the decision proposes to approve the funding of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2017, which is calculated on the basis of the budgetary allocations provided for by the Supreme Council of the State Budget Act 2017. Let us draw attention to the fact that the last funds of the Supreme Council were approved as early as 2013. During the last three years, the basic planning and financial document of the Ukrainian Parliament has not been approved. Furthermore, in accordance with article 33, part one, of the Law on the Status of Peoples’ Deputies, paragraph two of the draft decree proposes to set the financial security for the activities of the national deputies. Since May 1, 2016, with the entry into force of the National Service Act of Ukraine, the payment of the work of the National Deputies remains outstanding. We also inform you that the results of the use of budgetary assignments foreseen in 2016.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u170	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u171	As a result of the use of the budgetary assignments envisaged in 2016 to ensure the activities of the Supreme Council, the Committee decided to refer to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with a proposal to channel the amount of budget savings not used to pay for the work of Ukrainian national deputies and to exercise parliamentary powers, amounting to 77 million 687 thousand dollars, to financial support for prevention and treatment of rare orphan diseases. The adoption of a draft decision will allow for a regulatory option.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u172	Please finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u173	It will allow for the regulation of expenditure on parliamentary activities during the current budget period. We propose to adopt the defined draft decree as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please. Lavrick Oleg Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u175	Please pass the word to Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u176	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Dear colleagues, I don't know if you've analyzed the document, but it's actually made up of two pages. And these two pages do not contain any reliable information about where the funds will actually be spent by the Supreme Council. On December 27th, I gave the appropriate address to both the Head and the Supreme Council, where I asked myself and my faction to decipher, and what would actually be spent such a large amount of money and in what order would they be spent. For example, let us explain what a regional study of the database will cost thousands of dollars of budget money. And I want to explain in general all of these indicators that are listed in these two pages. No answer has been received to this day, even though all the lines have passed, I have not received it. Instead, I'm thrown from one committee to another, from the Supreme Council's apparatus to the regulatory committee, and they're actually hiding this information from the people's deputies. So I think my faction also thinks that this is a completely opaque approach to the formation of the core of the Supreme Council. First of all, we have to do audits in the last three years, we've been demanding them since the first day we came to this Parliament. Then we'll do an analysis, or we'll need, for example, the Law Institute. I don't know, for example, how the Law Institute helps us write laws or make them better and better. So the Self-Help faction requires a full and comprehensive and independent audit. Secondly, we demand a transparent report where the previous costs were spent in previous years. And we also require complete information about what is contained in this corrosive. Clarifications by each indicator. And only after that can we talk about voting and approving the corrosive of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u177	Thank you. I want to inform you in the media that I am now in charge of auditing the base. As soon as it's finished, I'm going to make the results of the audit public. Step by step, Mrs. Helen, is being audited by all departments. There is a special unit and it conducts audits of all departments of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its apparatus. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Lubinetsa Dmitry Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u178	Good afternoon! The Peter Prashenko faction supports the adoption of this bill. Moreover, I would like to turn to all my colleagues right now that we were looking at the cost of all the national MPs who wanted to, at the meeting of the Standing Committee, and we had an opportunity to look into it. Including the report of the previous year when the cost was spent. Likewise, I would like to say that a wave of populism has now risen, that we are voting in favour of raising the salaries of the national MPs. I want to tell you that right now we, the national MPs, are going to vote not only for the salaries of the national MPs, the assistants, but also for the thousands of people working in the Supreme Council's apparatus. Because for the time being, there has been a situation where there is no legal basis for charging salaries for both deputies and assistants and for those working in the Supreme Council. So we're asking all our colleagues, and the regulatory committee has unanimously supported the cost of the Supreme Council, and now I'm addressing all the national MPs, think about the people who work in the Apparatus. And think about the salary they're going to get tomorrow. So I ask everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u179	Thank you. Please, Dudenkov Alexander Valeriovich of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u180	Listen, dear colleagues, this is where the previous reporters talked about what we need to take care of and think about the employees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But it's a very big weight, a very large percentage of this bill -- raising your own wages. Well, let's be honest with each other, as far as our voters are concerned. From January 1st to April 30, 2017, it is proposed to increase the cost of a deputy – 33,000 dollars. From May 1 to November 30 – 35,000. From December 1st to December 31st, 2017 – up to 37,000. Now that I'm paying a deputy, a committee member, that's in independence, I'm not taking into account the head of the Supreme Council, the deputy head of the head, the head of the committee or the subcommittee, it's about 14,000 dollars. In fact, we raise our wages twice, and now we're talking about what we don't need to talk about populism and we need to think about the employees of the Apparatus. It's the representative of Peter Poshenko's Block that's currently engaged in populism because, in fact, under these slogans, they want to raise their wages. And while they voted in favour of the State Budget Act, by reducing social benefits by raising housing and utility services, housing services, energy services, that's what I think is populism, when at low income levels of the average Ukrainian family, we're all talking about the need to provide us with the economic cost of housing and utility services that are provided to Ukrainian families, we really need to ensure the European level of these services, which is what I think is populism. I also consider populism to be a twofold increase in the minimum wage, when the economy actually lies when real GDP rises to 8 percent according to the macroeconomic indicators of the State Budget Act, we're talking about the fact that life has improved and we're twice as likely to increase the salary by not counting the corresponding consequences that may be after that. It's a faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u181	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u182	The faction of the opposition block suggests that, if it comes to the said decision of the apparatus workers, vote in part of the apparatus workers. Everything about the National Deputies does not support the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u183	Thank you. From Fatherland, Ivan Stojko, please. Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u184	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, here a few questions were raised by colleagues from other factions in the context of the discussion of the funds of the Supreme Council. Well, first of all, we have to say that we should, as national deputies, regulate the work of the Supreme Council. But I support the offer made by my colleague, Elena Sotnik, from Self-Help, that there should be an audit of the Supreme Council's financial activities. That's why I have an offer. Dear Mr. Head, let's finally reform the House of Accounts, choose a new composition of the Court of Auditors, and we'll have the first commission of the Court of Auditors to conduct audits of the Supreme Council. That's the first one. And the second is about wages. I think that we should finally be able to adopt in Parliament one Act on Paying for a Work titled to regulate the salary of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council, and all officials throughout the vertical government, so that citizens can understand how many people are getting. Let's stop doing the piano, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u185	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u186	Let's settle this once and for all, so that it doesn't happen that the parliamentary discussion takes place in a regime where MPs start to sneer at each other, and the Cabinet of Ministers decides when no one sees it. Therefore, we need to adopt the Pay for Work Act, establish transparent wages for all officials, and close the issue once and for all, so that people understand how much they need to maintain the government apparatus, and give the Treasury, if necessary, to the Chief of the Supreme Council, to gather the heads of the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u187	Thank you. I've already given 30 seconds to finish. Colleagues, are there still willing to speak? So I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall and as long as the deputies come in, I'll explain. The key thing is that for many years now the Supreme Council has not received the funds of the Supreme Council. In fact, all changes in the financial security activities of the Supreme Council have been accepted by the Regulatory Committee. And I welcome the Regulatory Committee that this year, together with the apparatus, they have prepared a financial document not to be hand-held, because of the orders of the regulatory committee and heads, they have financed the Supreme Council, but because of the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think this step is right, I think this step is progressive. At the same time, I agree with some of the speakers that the projected wage increase in part of the national MPs is excessive. And that's why I'm making a proposal that I've discussed with the committee head. Instead of 20 living minimums, 15 living minimums were increased, and instead we were able to increase the fund of assistants and advisors to the national MPs. People’s deputies are often experts, scientists who carry out their duties and prepare a legislative field. That is my offer that they had previously agreed to on the regulatory committee. And so, with your permission, colleagues, I'm going to put the vote first on three motions. First offer. A decree prepared by the Regulatory Committee for us to see. Option two. This is a ruling with my amendment, which reduces the pay raise for MPs, but increases for assistants. And the third option. When we vote for the fund, we delete the clause on the salary of the national MPs. I'm going to put three options on the signal vote to see which of those decisions has a greater potential. Do you agree with that, colleagues? Is that okay with you? It works, doesn't it? No, it's not. Then how do we put it? Colleagues, I'll take my turn. First, the rating vote, draft regulation 5573 in the committee. Whoever supports this motion for a ruling, please vote. Colleagues! Once again, colleagues, I'll explain. Again, colleagues. We have a draft committee ruling that provides for the costs of the Supreme Council, and we have a proposal that I have made to reduce the salaries of the national deputies from 20 subsistence minimums to 15, but instead to increase the allowance for assistants, counselors. Colleagues, good? Then I put it to a vote, colleagues. All right, 30 seconds, please. Cool, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u188	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, there's a proposition, let's take the treasure as the base of this, which is, right now, and then we'll vote your proposal separately. We continue to vote in general so that we don't have to do the ratings and split the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u189	You realize that the problem is that we have to pay first-number wages, including counsellors. So I'm going to make a proposal, first, a draft decision with my amendment, where less for the MPs, more for the assistants. If this doesn't work out, we'll put a fundraiser in the first place without paying the MPs. I'll make my first offer. Colleagues, do you understand the first offer I'm making? This is a draft Financial Regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with a proposal for an increase of not 20 national deputies, but 15. Right, right, everybody? And the helpers have an increase of 8,000 dollars in earnings. Do you understand the question? No one's gonna say we didn't understand what we were voting for? Then I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm asking you to come to the hall. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:44:01]] For-137 I'll bet you the next offer. Draft Decision in committee editing, rating vote. Whoever supports the committee's draft regulation, please vote on the rating vote. In the Committee's drafting of the ruling, please vote. [[13:44:28]] For 124 And the third rating vote is the cost of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which deletes paragraph 2 and paragraph 3, which applies to salaries, i.e. without changing wages. This is the third sentence that I'm going to put to the ratings vote. Cocorys of the Supreme Council, no increase in the salaries of deputies. So whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[13:45:11]] For-123 The decision is not taken. Thus, colleagues, none of the proposals have been supported, but according to the Rules I have to put to the vote in order for the ruling to be either rejected or returned to the committee for further work. And now I'm going to put these proposals no longer in this sequence. The first proposal that supports the draft Regulation on financial security for the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 5573, as a whole, is to be voted on. Let's vote, colleagues 5573, the decision that was given to everyone and the committee. [[13:45:56]] For a-117. The decision is not made. Next offer. Return to the committee for further work, colleagues. Are we going to unite around this? We're going to unite, aren't we? Return to the committee for further work. So, colleagues, I ask you to vote on the next proposal of regulation 5573, return to the committee for further work. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[13:46:35]] For 223 Let's go back again, not yet. Return to the committee for further work. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall and I'll put you on the way back so we can return to the committee for work. So, colleagues, I'm once again asking you to return to the committee for further work, colleagues. Please, Pinzenic, is there a warning? Please, from the Committee, Paul Pinzenick.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u190	Dear Head, honourable deputies! Of course, there is a warning, and according to the Rules, a draft of the corrosive is being developed by the Supreme Council, by no means by a regulatory committee. He can make the right decision, assess the quality of the machine’s work. In accordance with the commission for the development of the CO2, please provide the apparatus of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee has neither sufficient competence nor sufficient resources to carry out such work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u191	So the proposal to return to the committee is not necessary, it doesn't matter. Then I'm in accordance with the Rules. Yes, then, according to the Rules, I propose that I return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[13:48:01]] For 208 Nor did this offer get the required number of votes. Thus, the 5573 Financial Insurance Regulation is rejected. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, the next question is the calendar plan for next week. It's a matter of organizing our work. And I'm asking you to go to the Project Review Order on the calendar of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call (5585). This is the calendar of our work for the next plenary period, and I'm asking you to support its consideration by a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote, please support. [[13:48:57]] For 184 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee of Pinzenic Pavel Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u192	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, the Bill (Registration No. 5585) on the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call made by the National Deputies, members of the Committee, in accordance with the decision of the Committee of December 21. The project proposes the opening of the plenary sessions of the sixth February 7th session, to be completed on July 21, 2017. It is reserved for plenary sessions during a session of 12 weeks, for committees, commissions, factions, groups of 12 weeks. Excuse me, six weeks, the work of the national MPs with the electorate -- six weeks, the "hours of questions to the government" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- 12 hours. The preparation of the draft calendar plan takes into account the schedule for holding the next PARE sessions from April 22 to 29 and from June 24 to July 1, as well as the holidays, nonwork days, and religious holidays provided for in article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code. Thus, with a view to creating a more rational working time environment, it is proposed in March, April, May, July, to anticipate two consecutive weeks in plenary mode, namely weeks 13 to 17, from 20 to 24 March, from 3 to 7, from 10 to 14 April, from 15 to 19, from 22 to 26 May, from 3 to 7 and from 10 to 14 July. It is also proposed to work on committees, commissions, factions, weekly groups for which the festivals are held: March 8, 2, and May 9, from March 6 to May 10, from May 1 to May 5, from May 10 to 12. So please support the calendar schedule for the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u193	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I hope you have a calendar plan before your eyes. It looks a little uncomfortable because we have three months in a row of two plenary weeks together. But this is largely due to the fact that our international delegations, in particular the delegation in South Africa, fall into the process quite often. And at the beginning of our work, we agreed not to hold our meetings during the PARJE session, since we often do not go to a successful vote. And so the calendar plan was so that we wouldn't intersect with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And even though it's not entirely comfortable, I think it needs to be supported, it needs to be accepted today. I see there's a need to discuss it, right? Then please record: two for, two against. Please. Please, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u194	Please pass the word to Berezuku. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u195	Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u196	Mr. Head, there are a number of observations. First of all, we don't understand why we won't be working in Parliament for a month in May, April, I don't understand. But there are three times when Parliament has to work for two weeks in a row, it is also an ineffective use of the work of a national MP. So there's an offer: not to rest for a month in April, in May, but at least two periods about. Two weeks in a row to replace in a week. It's an efficient use of work, you can go to the regions, and you can work in Parliament effectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u197	Mr. Oleg, I'll be honest with you when I got this project, and that's the same question that came up. But the regulatory committee did a very professional job. These are actually the meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We can. I'm not a fan of having two consecutive plenary weeks, and then a big break. I also think it's hard to work, but together with the appointment of plenary meetings during the Paris meeting, we realize in advance that about 40 deputies will not be in the session room. And I honestly don't know how to get out of this dilemma or how to deal with it. We've got risks both there and there. And in this case, we can have a discussion and maybe you can make some suggestions that we could accept that might be compromised. Today, this proposal is very clearly agreed upon and highly professionally handled by the regulatory committee. So let's determine by vote. Maybe we'll work on it. Please, Ar?ev, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the first time, I would like to point out that, as the head of a permanent delegation in the countries of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, this is a very positive moment, that the calendar plan, its project, was made up of the Paris sessions, because, at this point, the Paris sessions -- I ask my fellow Members to pay attention -- are the last of these. This year's last week of April and the last week of June. This is the corresponding spring and summer parts. And so in the spring we're planning a big film festival, documentary films about Crimean Tatars, big, actually weekly events in support of the Crimean Tatar people. And I think that, including not only members of the Assembly, delegates and their deputies, as well as other national deputies, could attend this event because this year will be a decisive one. And I have to say that, obviously, our delegation won another victory in that it organized events last year in such a way that the Russian delegation did not join the Council of Europe again until today, it is clear that it will not be able and will not take part in the statements made by the representatives of the State and the Council of the Federation, not taking part in the work of Africa. I believe that every such step on the part of the Ukrainian delegation should be particularly marked because it is the only international organization that has restricted the rights of the Russian Federation. And we really need to pay attention to the work of PARJE, because it has been effective today. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the regulatory committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m0.u199	Thank you. My colleagues, I want to support here that the front that we have in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is no less important than our internal front. I'm addressing Mr. Oleg in this case. And to be honest, I had the same questions, but we have to take this moment into account, because we're going to have two things. First of all, he won't be able to make a full trip to our delegation. And our delegation is going, both members of the committee and their deputies, to do more mass propaganda work at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Let's think about it again, but it seems to me that we should support this proposal, and it was one of my first orders to have a calendar plan drawn up with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The only thing I would have been more specific was for the first week of July, where a delegation might be delayed, to do "work on committees." The first week of July is committee work. Colleagues, are there still willing to speak? Are We Going to the Vote? Vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I ask you to take up your jobs, and I ask you to take a responsible approach to this vote. This is our organization, and we need to approve the calendar plan. It is not convenient, but it is optimal for making decisions, for the effective, productive work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation (number 5585), with an amendment that the first week of July 4-7 of July will take place on committees, commissions, factions and groups, proposed on the basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:58:22]] For 221 Four votes, my friends! Come on. Please invite people into the hall. I'll be back in a minute. Four votes, colleagues. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. It's not a political issue, it's a question that organizes our work. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please invite the faction members to the hall. Colleagues, so I'm making a proposal, colleagues, to go back to the vote for Decree 5585 and ask everyone to support me, colleagues. This is the optimal calendar plan that we could have come up with. The members of the Regulatory Committee are from each faction, I ask to vote in favour of a return to 5585. Please vote, please support, colleagues, please support. [[13:59:34]] For 231 We're back. And now I'm putting draft regulation 5585 on the ground and in general with the amendment that I made in the first week on committees and factions. Please vote and please support. July, July 1st, from the 3rd to the 7th Committee and factions. Please vote and please support, colleagues, vote, please support, vote, colleagues, please. [[14:00:07]] For 232 Decision taken. Colleagues, I'd like everyone's attention. Now we've got a day-to-day session, that's five minutes, colleagues. We can stay in places, it's five minutes, getting into the agenda. Colleagues, please, that's five minutes. I'm going to continue for 15 minutes and ask you to stay in the hall, it'll be five minutes, colleagues. Turn-on. Colleagues, we need to include in the agenda of the day session a draft law on the approval of the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2017 for participation in multinational learning. Colleagues, please. Colleagues, may I put it to a vote? It doesn't, does it? Colleagues, I'll put up a rating vote, a rating. In order to include 5636, the admission of foreign troops to education in Ukraine, the rankings that support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, please vote. This is a matter of security and defence, a matter that needs a decision by the Supreme Council. Please vote, please support. Please, colleagues. [[14:01:38]] For 205 It was a rating vote. So it's demonstrated that we're not going to be able to go through this chapter productively right now. And that's why the Rules announce a break of two hours, up to 16 hours. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you. At 4 p.m. I ask everyone to come to the hall with discipline.
