ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the registration for the evening meeting of the Supreme Council, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u2	Colleagues, we can move on to registration. Everybody in place? Colleagues, please prepare for registration. And I'm asking you to sign up for the evening session. Please, colleagues, let's register. Turn on the registration system. [[16:06:29]] 362 deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Colleagues, and I remind you, it's a block of local self-government. Important questions. The committee worked for a long time. We were preparing to make an agreed decision. And I'm counting very much on activity, and I'm counting very much on the position of the people's deputies in support of these bills. They're all in the second reading, they don't have to be included in the agenda. We can put the second reading without being included. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, there's a statement from two factions: the Self-Help factions and the Fatherland faction -- yes, the break. There's a chance we'll take it before lunch and after lunch. Let's hear the statement, and then we'll go to the law, and I haven't announced it yet. The word is given instead of a break to Jehor Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u3	Today, there is again no bill on the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine in the agenda. Yesterday, the State Building Committee reviewed the bill and decided to form a working group led by Lubomir Zubad. We welcome the fact that the deputies have begun to deal with this problem. We understand that some people think that this can take time, and I think that these are very bad plans that will not work for Parliament or for society. Many people are now standing on rails blocking railways carrying echelons behind echelons to occupied areas. As far as I know about their plans, they're going to cover up the next railways. Many people have compassion in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. In the morning, there was a disgraceful incident when the leader of one of the battalions whose fighters on vacation decided to support the blockade of Blood Trade began to be removed from office. I think that such repression and such pressure, all the more, on the military, on the Armed Forces of Ukraine will do nothing good, on the contrary, only to convince people that it is the right, important initiative. There is another reason to hurry. The directors of the large companies Luhanskina and Donetskina tell us that they are under pressure to prepare light and heat. In fact, it's a very cynical strategy. We hope she's not going to be involved. We're going to talk to the government tomorrow about warning us about these idiotic plans. But once again, a big request to all parliamentarians who want to resolve this problem, who want to stop the blood trade. Workgroup created. During the following week, there is every opportunity to exchange thoughts, to come up with a single decision, and to vote. This will be the help of Parliament, the Ukrainian people, the Armed Forces and the veterans of this war for independence who have taken the initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u4	Thank you. So let us go to the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (as regards the status of village seniority, village) (No. 4742). And I'm polling the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of Dekhtyarchuk Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u5	Dear colleagues! With regard to the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (as regards the status of the village's old age, village) (No. 4742) (second reading). Following a commission from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government considered at its meeting on 16 July 2016 the observations and proposals that came from subjects of the right to legislative initiative in the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts (as regards the status of village, village), submitted by a group of national deputies and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a result of the first reading. A second reading of the bill from the twelve national deputies included 71 suggestions, 36 of which were proposed to be considered, 9 to be edited, 3 to be taken into account in part, 23 to be rejected. As a result of the Committee's general discussion, it was agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (as regards the status of the village's old age, the village), on the basis of a second reading, to be adopted as a whole. The final draft of the bill has been prepared with comments from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority. We propose that the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government be entrusted with the preparation of it for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with its technical and legal work. Please support the bill. I propose to proceed to the consideration of the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u6	Thank you very much. So let's go to the right. And I ask all right-wing authors to prepare themselves for discussion. 5th, Mishchenka Sergei. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u7	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th Kyiv County. I'd like to ask you a question. In two years, though, some thought about why only 10 percent of the local communities had appeared on a map of Ukraine? Why only 10 percent? The first question immediately arises, and why do people refuse to have more money? Because it's clear that the territorial community will have more money at the expense of the PDF. Why, then, do they refuse to unite? And here's the question of the second that we have the centers, they're going to win from this, but there's going to be satellites around these territorial centers that don't have the heads of the soldiers and the deputies of the soldiers, but there's going to be just old age. And the mayor is not an official of the local self-government, but an official of the local self-government, you see the difference between an organ and an organ. Does that mean what? That he can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u8	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u9	There is no authority because other laws, the Civil Code, the Law on Local Self - Rule, all others have the authority of the local government, and are thus deprived of it. So in this way, communities refuse to have their community's leading representative in satellites, near the center of this territorial community.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u10	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u11	Actually, the Mishchenka MP's amendment was a little bit different. In this case, the amendment provided for the right of old age to be a member of a united territorial community. In this way, the mayor would have two representative mandates, which are contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, and in this case would be unacceptable. Regarding the authority of old age. The bill actually envisions expanding powers and creating a novel like the old-fashioned district. In no case is it an administrative innovation, but it is the competences and limits of the competence of old age. If in the Law on the Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities we talked about the mayor exercising his authority in accordance with the decision of the local council deputies, we now reserve that the right of any community to the village mayor. But this is a decision by the number of rural authorities and by the boundaries of the provincial districts that we leave behind the members of the united community, taking into account the availability of funds in the respective community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u12	Thank you. Do you insist on voting, Mr. Sergei? Are you insisting or not? So I'm putting to the vote amendment number 5 of the Mishchenka People's Deputy. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[16:16:10]] For-83 The decision is not made. 13th Amendment, Mishchenko. 10 Amendments, Mishchenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, why am I explaining this? The question is not in law, the question is how will this law improve the lives of our citizens, not in the center of this territorial community, but in satellites, which are more on the map of Ukraine. That's what we're talking about. Let me give you an example. Why aren't they created? Because the public hearings of these satellites are held and people are told, and the first question is, will you get more money? They say yes. And the second question is, where do we go for help? They're told you'll come to the village next door. And people say, no, we don't give you permission to do that. That's the question. Because. Right, you agree, because this even amendment says that positions determine the power of old age. And they are defined by law, not by any position. So the question is, Why do they unite? Because people do not give such a mandate to unite because they will go to the neighboring village for every piece of paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u14	Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u15	With your permission, I have to say that providing assistance and other administrative services from the state is a slightly different topic, and in this case it is a shame that we have very slowly established Administrative Services Centres, particularly in the united territorial communities. This question is partly solved. When we considered the Law on Administrative Services, we envisioned remote jobs from the CNAPs, and at the village age, it is mandatory to schedule the premises where the village mayor works, and the representative of the administrative services center should also work. And these questions will to some extent be removed in the case of whether there is the same help, whether there is an extraction from the Land Register, or a photo in the passport, these questions will be solved automatically in this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u16	Do you insist on voting? You insist. Who supports Amendment 10 of the Mishchenka People's Deputies, please vote. The committee considered it essentially. [[16:18:42]] For-72 The decision is not taken. 13th, Mishchenka. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u17	Now let's move on. We're modeling the situation. Grandpa or Grandma came to the old age of the new territorial community and says, "I want to form a will for you -- what the secretaries of the village council did, what he said was "a man of the local self-government." How much does it cost you? He says it used to cost 34 kips or at all for free. Now this grandmother has come to this old age, and the mayor says I don't have that kind of authority, I'm just helping you do it. And he says, "How do you do it?" You give me a car to go to the county, you give me money for a ticket, how can you help me? And old age has nothing to answer, because it's going to be driven to where you say it is, to CNAP and to local self-government. Because the secretary did these functions, and now no secretary is available, and no one is going to this community. And Grandma's going to chase her in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u18	By your permission, although the amendment of MP Mishchenka did not really apply to your speech, it is, in principle, to the work of the village elders. One of the concepts that was proposed for consideration was the idea of empowering the rural authorities to provide administrative services in places. But there was a contradiction to valid legislation, because the provision of administrative services requires old age to have appropriate quality standards of education. In this case, we get a whole army of decentralization opponents from today's active rural heads, who in most cases win elections, are actually mayors -- practice I testify to. In this case, this concept has not been supported by the working group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u19	Do they insist on voting? Who supports Amendment 13 of the Mishchenka People's Deputies, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[16:21:06]] For-73 The decision is not taken. 17th National Deputy Levchenko. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u20	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The point is that here very rightly important issues are raised in the discussion of amendments, which is actually what this decentralization reform is called, in fact, leading to the literal extinction of smaller villages today. In particular, if the mayor is not given proper authority, this trend will only accelerate. Therefore, of course, it is regrettable that this law, which could do so, gives appropriate authority and at least destroy certain negative features of this so - called reform. In fact, he does not do everything he can. In particular, my amendment says that the point is that there is such a rule in this law, where it is written that the mayor is helping the villagers, the villages in the preparation of the documents submitted to the local self-government authorities, but the mayor is also, in fact, responsible for the provision of administrative and social services. And that's why I did. And he has to be responsible. And so my amendment is just to add a few of these words here, that it not only contributes to the preparation of documents, but that it also contributes to the provision of administrative and social services.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u21	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u22	That the mayor is not just some clerical, or not even a clerical, but, let's call it, a councillor for the villagers, but that he has a direct role in the promotion, administration and social services. And especially when the reporter said that maybe the administrative centers next to him would be sitting there, or the employees, that's where this function should be specifically prescribed in the law, not in certain legal acts. So please take this amendment into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u23	By your permission, the Law on the Order of Administration of Local Self-Government Services provides for this. There are remote jobs. This law has already been passed by the Supreme Council, and it is in effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u24	Do you insist on voting? Who supports the amendment of the 17th People’s Deputy Levchenk (the Committee rejected it), please vote. Please. [[16:23:28]] For-65 The decision is not made. 18th. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u25	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, first of all, I wanted to comment briefly on the last amendment. In fact, what is prescribed in another law does not apply to what I said. In my correction, it was about giving authority to old age, not that it was possible to hypothetically set up remote jobs. These are completely different things, absolutely. And so here my amendment, 18th, says that we need to complement the empowerment of old age with the goal of providing opportunities for the villagers, the villages get the necessary documents directly in the village and the village, without having to go to another inhabited area. So I suggest you write directly, not about some remote hypothetical jobs, but directly write that the mayor provides help, other documents, as well as information to the villagers, the villages. I mean, just so that there's a direct mandate, and there's not another kind of obsessive norm that someone can hypothetically create a particular, let's say, branch of the central authority in the village. The mayor needs to have these powers directly if there is any desire to preserve the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u26	The order of the organization of the work of old age is determined by the position of the mayor, approved by the village council, and by the deputies of the united community. In the Order of the Mayor, all of these things -- how, the order of help -- can be written completely without any problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u27	Do they insist on voting? Anyone who supports the amendment of the 18th People's Deputies of Lehchenk, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[16:25:21]] Z-70. The decision is not made. 22nd. Yvchenko. Is it insisting? Don't insist. 23rd, Levenchenko. Don't insist. He insists, doesn't he? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u28	The proposal of paragraph 7 of part two of article 56-1 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine should be supplemented by provisions which would allow old age not only to make proposals to the executive committee of rural, rural, urban and municipal councils on activities in the territory of the relevant Old Town District, executive bodies of rural, rural, urban, business, institutions, community-based forms of property and their officials, but also to influence the order of action in the territory of the relevant Old Town District, executive bodies of rural, rural, council, enterprises, institutions, community-based forms of property and their officials. The point is that the mayor may make proposals directly to the agenda of the relevant executive committee. There's no such possibility right now. That's the way it's supposed to be. I insist on giving old age real powers. You take their village councils, you take the real opportunity directly from a village, a settlement, to influence your life. No matter how old you are, the only representative, leave any authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u29	The mayor is not the only representative in the village. There are members of a united community who also represent the interests of the village in this case. The introduction of proposals to the agenda of the executive committee by the seniority will be contrary to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. Such proposals under the law are made by a village, a village, a city head. In this case, it makes sense. The village chief is a member of the executive committee of the united community, and as a member of the executive committee he has the opportunity to influence fully the work of the executive committee and decisions taken in the united community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u30	Do they insist on voting? Thus, Amendment 23 of Lechchenka was rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[16:27:43]] For-69 The decision is not made. 26th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 28th, Levenchenko. Don't insist. He insists, doesn't he? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u31	The proposal of part two of section two of article 54-1 of the Local Self-Government Act needs to be complemented in part by monitoring the state of respect for the rights and legitimate interests of residents of villages and villages in the area of land use. Again, the point is that we have to expand the powers and responsibilities of old age, particularly with regard to monitoring the enforcement of rights and legitimate interviews of residents of villages and villages in the field of land use. I'd like to pay attention to the reporter when he talks about the choice of deputies to represent interests in the OTG Council. It's a society for which you do honest manipulations. In the most important majority of OTGs, if this OTG has a re-centre, 70-80 percent of the deputies represent a re-centre. Appropriately, the OTG board will make the only decisions that need to be refocused, which is a mere political arithmetic. So do not waste the stories that the deputies will be able to decide, at least give the elders these powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u32	The amendment proposed by Deputy Lewchenk is intended to place a wide range of incompetent powers on the mayor, without taking into account the practical implementation of these powers in practice. We want the village mayor to be an expert both in the field of administrative services and in the field of land use. Unfortunately, however, the practice so far in Ukraine of elected officials wants a better one. So in this case, to predict inequitable powers, the committee rejected that proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u33	Do they insist on voting? So I'm putting to the vote the 28th amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports me, I ask you to vote, please. [[16:30:04]] For-81 The decision is not made. Colleagues, come on, maybe a little bit more intense, because we can't even get past the block. Maybe less and more answers. I ask you very much for more intensive work. Next 29th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 33rd, Odarchenko. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to what's going on in front of me. He was right to say that these united communities are now being united around the most capable village council. Those rural councils that are taking part in this community, they're essentially losing any possibility of impact on their daily lives, because the dominant number of deputies, they're always going to be in the largest population. And it's very human when this populace decides its own needs. There is now an uptake, a unification of the centers of the united communities, as it were, of these satellites of peripheral villages. Now we're proposing, by my amendment, that we give the elderly at least the right to appeal to the court in the event that the decisions of the united community are violated. I think it's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u35	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u36	which will allow the people to defend their rights. The city’s head has the right to appeal against old age, and the mayor can’t make a similar appeal. My amendment is about that. Please support her by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u37	Honorary Society, the proposal for consideration by the working group is irrelevant, since according to the Constitution, everyone is guaranteed the right to be accused of actions or omissions by the authorities, local authorities, officials and officials. This is part of the first article of article 55 of the Constitution. So in this case, to assign those powers to the mayor separately, if he already has them as a Ukrainian citizen, the task force has not seen them properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u38	Do you insist on voting? Please put to the vote amendment No. 33 of the Odarchenka People's Deputies. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. Please. [[16:32:49]] For-73 The decision is not made. 35th, Levenchenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u39	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. It's written that the amendment is partially accounted for, in fact, it's not included at all. The point is that if you don't want to prescribe additional powers in the law for old age, you'll at least leave the possibility for the board of corresponding OTG, if it somehow accumulates in it, let's say hypothetically, normal deputies so that they can expand these powers. So I'm proposing this amendment, actually, to sell them such powers. But in summary, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, what we now see in this law is once again, instead of wanting to solve the specific problems of specific people, it's the opposite of wanting to put these problems on someone else. So basically, a whole bunch of villages, small villages are completely cut off from actual representation in representative authorities. They won't be able to influence in any way the real politics of their local authorities, because they might have one or two deputies, most OTG deputies from the centre and all. And these old men, who are now, will have absolutely no authority, will not do anything. Appropriately, there is a course for the extinction of small villages. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u40	In this case, this does not correspond to reality. And your amendment is taken into account in part, as the position of the OTG deputy and will confirm the order of the village elders. Many things can be predicted in the setting, in fact, regarding the order of the direct work of the village elders. On the other hand, the bill foresees the possibility for every community in the community to claim to be present in this village, not just in the village’s village council of old. This is the bill, and the members of the united community will determine how many rural old age, the boundaries of the mayoral districts, are needed in their territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u41	Do they insist on voting? The 35th Amendment of the Levchenk People’s Deputy, the Committee considered it in part. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. Please. [[16:35:17]] For-74. The decision is not made. 34 revisions. Odarchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, right now we have some experience of uniting communities. We see that, today, the villages that are involved in the union of communities, so yes., I'm going to use the word "peripheral villages," they have absolutely no rights, they put any hope on the function of old age. We don't give him any functions under this law, he can't protect the rights of citizens. And in fact, these peripheral villages, they're doomed to extinction, they're not going to have schools, schools and health care tomorrow. I would like with this right to ask the deputies to uphold the right of the mayors of the council to delegate certain powers to the performance of their functions. I'm asking you to support this amendment, I think it's a real self-government that will allow old age to have any way of influencing the life of its population.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u43	Again, it's emotional, but it doesn't fit the reality. I will remind honourable deputies that in a united community, the majority system and the deputies are chosen from each of them. And to say that the population does not represent its deputies to a united territorial community, these are non-partisan lists and a disproportionate electoral system, which is simply pointless. With regard to the responsibilities of the village elders and their role and places in community life, the practice says that even fulfilling the duties of rural old age, and about 300 of the old age who have been chosen for today, acting only on the basis of the Law on Voluntary Unity of Communities, have an active role and place in the life of a united community: both in the creation of a strategic plan for the development of a united community, and in the work of execution, and in the provision of administrative services, and in the work of utilities, which a number of united communities create again in places where old age is located. Therefore, the request is understood to address such a position in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u44	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Please put to the vote the amendment of 34 People's Deputies of Odarchenka. The committee counted it in part. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:38:04]] Z-71 The decision is not made. 38th, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u45	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, this is an entirely technical amendment, which should provide comfort to the inhabitants of the settlements where local councils have disappeared. It is proposed that the elderly be given the right to accept documents from residents addressed to the executive committee or local council, with the mayor obliged to hand these documents over to the addressee, but the date on which the documents were received by the mayor. I believe that this is the right thing to do to ensure that the promise that the availability of administrative services will not diminish. Otherwise, I don't know what good it would be for those who live 20 kilometers from the center of the community when they have to go to the center of the garden for every piece of paper, spending 30 to 50 bucks on buses, coming into a strange environment where they'll have trouble getting any help.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u46	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u47	This is part of the text job. We're talking about how old age works is determined by how it gets the correspondence, how it gets the documents. These things, according to the committee, were inappropriate to prescribe, to detail the order of keeping correspondence in this case. It's all calmly reflected in the position.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u48	Do they insist on voting? Odarchenko, do they insist on voting? Whoever supports the amendment of the 38th People's Deputy Odarchenk, please support it, vote who supports it, rejects the committee, please. [[16:40:15]] For-79 The decision is not made. 39th. Odarchenko insists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u49	Regrettably, it is very common for honourable colleagues to come together when the settlements are represented in the council of the united community by one member and another by an absolute majority. Under such circumstances, this council of the united community can freely manage the property of this small settlement, depriving the institution of culture and education, in fact, of destroying the infrastructure. So there's a proposal to give the old age the veto to a council decision that is damaging to the relevant population. This veto is added, is passed by standard, by two thirds of the vote. And if that is the case, the settlements in the united community will be truly united and interconnected. Please support my request that the mayor of the community have the right to a veto, a decision on behalf of a united community.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u50	The committee did not support such a position, as we believe it will make it extremely difficult for a united community, both the executive committee and, indeed, the council itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u51	Colleagues, I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u52	There are united communities, where 34 years of age, you can imagine, in the hops. If the 34 elders have a veto, we'll turn, there'll be no work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u53	Colleagues, therefore, who support Amendment 39 of the gift. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[16:42:14]] For-76 Although the idea of the veto of old age and head is a promising idea, we need to think about it, we need to discuss it. 44th, Dmitri. Don't insist. 45th, Solvar. Don't insist. 46th, Mischenka. Don't insist. He insists, doesn't he? Please, 46th, Mishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u54	Dear colleagues! I don't understand the basics, to be honest. Today, the secretary of the silrada has the right to take many appropriate action, including notary action now. And after they unite, these rights are taken away from her. So tell me, basic problem, three apples better or one? You're not talking. You're talking about the CNAP, and there's this notion of notary action, the will. When a grandfather or a grandmother comes to the secretary of the village council, he secrets and does it because it's a secret, a secret, a will. Where's she going? Will he go to the old age? No, the mayor will tell you, I can't even help you, go downtown, and there'll be queues, just like the notaries stood. And when we gave the secretaries three years ago the right to do so, these lines were scattered with assignments and covenants. What are you doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u55	..extremely straight. Because in this case, essentially, your proposal concerns the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. In fact, the content of your speech does not fit the point.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u56	Do you insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote Amendment 46 of People's MP Mishchenka. Whoever supports this amendment has rejected it, please vote. Please. [[16:44:20]] For-74. The decision is not made. My colleagues, once again, I invite you to do more effective work, and I urge you to do so. 47th, Kobtsev. Don't insist. 48th, Lensky. Don't insist. 50th, Odarchenko. Don't insist. 51st, Yvchenka. Don't insist. 52nd, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 55th, Mishchenka. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u57	This is my last performance. But I want to get your attention again. What do we want from this reform? It's to make things better, isn't it? Yeah, there's gonna be more money, no one's gonna deny it, they're gonna pay for it. The second question is, representation will be. Which doesn't matter. And third, will these small villages that today have their secretaries who are doing all these things have to do with the adoption of this law? They will be deprived of it. Why, then, should we unite? Look, there's no territorial community in the Kyiv region. Because at the meetings of the villages all ask one question to the MPs who should vote for a union: Where shall we go for help? Everybody says you're going downtown, all to one. That's it! That's why I'm saying, he's not deciding, he's not speeding up this reform, he's not deciding anything for our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u58	Well, language did not apply to the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u59	So, colleagues, do you insist on voting? Yes. I'm voting on amendment 55 of the Mishchenka People's Deputies. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[16:46:26]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, there are two adjustments left. I'm asking everyone to invite MPs into the hall, heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of national MPs. I ask you to prepare for the vote now. 59th, Odarchenko. Don't insist. 62nd, Odarchenko. Don't insist. Colleagues, that's how we finished discussing the bill. Thank you. You can do it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u60	Dear Society, there is a very strong request to support this bill. The village mayor is a new official and should not be confused with the notion of a village head of a former village council. There is a very big request: to support the institution and its structure, the institution of seniority in Ukraine. Today, more than 300 rural elders have been chosen in Ukraine. And believe me, it depends not only on money in a united community but on the quality of the headship and, including, of rural old age, on the quality of the official. Let us do our utmost not only to have a large amount of money but also to be of quality, to be able to represent the interests of the united territorial community, the initiative of the one who moves first. It's better than barking darkness, lighting a candle. A big request from the entire decentralization team: to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u61	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Thank you for the professional report, for the professional answers. We also have Deputy Prime Minister Hennaday Zubko present. Vladimir Borisovich Groissman, Prime Minister of Ukraine, was to be present, who is one of the initiators of those own reforms and those laws. Unfortunately, he can't be with us right now. He's on a mission, on a work trip, but he specifically asked all the national MPs to support all the bills, the whole block, which concerns decentralization and local self-government. I'm giving you a minute to give a speech to Deputy Prime Minister Hennadia Zubka. And in a minute, there'll be a vote. Please invite everyone into the hall. Please, Mr. Hennaday.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u62	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like once again to call upon all the national deputies to unite the Hall in voting on all the decentralization laws that have been passed today. Directly, the Prime Minister would also like to join in working with the Supreme Council, but unfortunately, today's deployment has not provided such an opportunity. And today those laws that are being considered in the hall have been worked on by a parliamentary group that is very active and very important and cooperates with the citizens of Ukraine, who are now united, who are awaiting unity. Therefore, the question of the empowerment of old age, the issue of their acquisition, the question of voluntary union, and, above all, the Law on Service in Local Self - Rule is now most relevant in order to strengthen the ability of local self - government. I would like to urge once again to unite around the voting of these bills – and to support our local self-government, which seeks to develop not only the economy but also the independence of Ukraine in general, which should be in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u63	So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take up jobs. I'm asking you, colleagues, to get as close as possible to your work cards. Please, colleagues, take up your jobs. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the status of village old age, village (No. 4742) for a second reading committee and generally. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[16:51:18]] For 271 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. I welcome the entire team that worked on this bill. My colleagues, I have a message for you. We put into the afternoon the day session of the 5610 draft law on absentee justice. There were only three votes. At the same time, the bill is of great importance in order for the prosecutor’s office to carry out the trial of Janukovich and all those against it. In crimes against the Ukrainians. Colleagues, I'd like to address all of you with a big request. On the eve of February’s anniversary, we should allow the prosecutor’s office to hold incoherent justice over those who have fled from Ukraine and whom our law enforcement system is searching for today to give people justice. I very much ask you, colleagues, to now vote in favour of the inclusion of the day session in order to take a decision on the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (5610). I'm asking you to support us so that we can immediately consider it so that we don't take it to the next plenary week after half a month so that we can do it before February's anniversary, February's tragedy. Dear colleagues, I ask you to concentrate. I am asking everyone to take up their jobs, and I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (5610) immediately. I ask you to vote, colleagues. I'm asking you to back me up. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[16:53:26]] For 221 [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll do it again, colleagues. Guys, I'll put it back on. I'm all initiatives, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've taken all the initiatives twice, three times, colleagues. And so I'm going to put this one on the vote again, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am voting once again on the draft Act (5610) amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:54:19]] For 225 Colleagues, one voice. He came in, and one voice came in. I'm re-entering the agenda to make a decision. Please support me, please vote on draft Law 5610. Please include in the agenda for making a decision. Please vote. Vote, please support, please vote. Voting, voting, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[16:54:51]] For 214 The decision is not made. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the acquisition of powers of rural, rural and urban heads (number 4110). And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government. Before that, colleagues, I'm taking the initiative of every faction, every deputy I put three times, colleagues. I put three votes, that's fair to everyone. Don't do comedy and don't do politics around the rostrum. Equally fair is the attitude toward all. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u64	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. I recall that the bill was tabled to Parliament on February 19th last year, practically all the composition of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government to solve two practical problems. First of all, this is a clarification of the wording of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine on the acquisition of powers by rural, rural, urban, and bringing them into line with electoral legislation. Secondly, it is the establishment of a direct assignment by the Central Electoral Commission to register the newly elected deputies of the local councils, according to head and seniority, in the event of the failure of the territorial electoral commission. The bill was adopted by Parliament on the basis of September 22, 16th, with the commission of our committee to prepare it for the second reading, which was done at the committee meeting on November 2, 16. In general, five proposals were submitted to the bill of five Ukrainian national deputies, four of whom the committee proposes to take into account, one to reject. As a result of the general discussion, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the acquisition of powers of rural, rural, urban heads (registration number 4110) as a result of the second reading to be adopted in the second reading and in general. In the case of the adoption of the bill in the second reading and in general, we propose to entrust the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government with the preparation of it for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to undertake, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its technical and legal work. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u65	How much?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u66	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u67	Colleagues! No, I'm done with the Bubble. Dear colleagues, there are no disbarred rights in this bill at all. Is it? What's that? One, four revisions. One, four, right. So please, colleagues, don't break up, I'm asking you to stay put. There's only one remedy. Please, Levchenko, 4 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u68	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. So look at the situation. The bill establishes a direct legal conflict between two other laws. It is suggested that the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission should provide that the Central Electoral Commission should decide on the registration of a deputy, a rural, a village head and so on, if the District Electoral Commission does not do so, i.e. it is obliged to do so. And the Local Elections Act says he can make a decision. That is, a direct dispute between the two laws is laid down in this bill, which is likely to lead to some chaos in terms of practical implementation. What's more, the logic of things and the electoral process has to be "may accept," not "obliged to accept," because there can be really objective reasons why they don't register such a deputy or a village head. So please do not impose such conflicts in legislation. Please support the revision and balance these two standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u69	Will you comment, Yuri Vasilovich? Colleagues, 4th Amendment. Do you insist on voting, Mr. Yuri? Whoever supports the 4th amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[16:59:41]] For-86 The decision is not made. Thus, colleagues, we have concluded a discussion of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Acquisition of Rural, Rural, Urban Heads (No.4110). And we can go to the vote. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Gennady, Mr. Hennaday, Zubko, one minute until the MPs come in, please. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. Please, Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u70	Once again, I would like to ask the deputies to unite around these laws, since the Second Law on the Status of Rural Seniority will allow such direct administration and their involvement in the decision - making process, along with the deputies who choose from their locality. The question of making a decision or a positive, or negative, age may be taken and there is no contradiction. So I think that, first of all, we need to strengthen the ability to make decisions, have a practical impact on the decision-making of old age and also on their work. Therefore, I would like to stress once again to support the bills drafted by the deputy corps, supported by the government and accompanied by the Prime Minister, the President of Ukraine, and thus to show and enable our mayors to make decisions in the work of the directly united territorial communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u71	Thank you, colleagues. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the acquisition of powers of rural, rural, urban heads (No. 4110) on second reading and in general. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:01:56]] For 238. Decision taken. The law is passed. Colleagues, there's been a motion for a break from two factions: the People's Front and the Radical Party. They're ready to take a break. Colleagues, we're going to have a local self-government bill. I now give the floor to the two factions of Mr. Halasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u72	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The world's leading research centres predict the future of countries not only for 3-5 years, but for 30-35 years in advance. The Economist's world-renowned research unit calculated the course of Ukraine's development by 2050. Do you know what the average growth rate of the economy is? One percent of a year. Do you know what they predict the population of our country in 2050, 33 years later? 32 million Ukrainians. 32 million! A similar forecast was made by the World Bank. What does that mean? And that means that leading international experts see Ukraine's future as a peripheral raw country with a small economy. What kind of signal does this give to investors today who are oriented toward these important projections? This signal is not to invest money in Ukraine. On what basis are these predictions based? An analysis of the politics that is being carried out in Ukraine. Unfortunately, the foundation of this forecast is based in Ukraine today by signing a cable memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, because of the lack of genuine radical reforms, the economic, social, legal and legal reforms that our country needs today. The cost of such a drift is unacceptable to Ukraine. That means we'll catch up with Poland in 2015, think about it, dear colleagues, in 2080. If Poland stands still, we'll catch up with them in 2080. Economic, monetary, social policy in Ukraine must be radically changed today. It's not what the International Monetary Fund offers us in this memorandum: not increasing the retirement age, not selling agricultural land, not economics in education and medicine, not legalizing casinos, not extensive privatization of state property. Because the results of a policy like I just called it. We have to do this with you today, and this is our historic mission with you, the stake on the domestic producer, the Ukrainian exporter, the Ukrainian employer and the investor, because they are the only ones who can get the country out of the divide, and they need to be supported by state policy. In order to fill the tax budget, not taxes, which require the country not to develop. This is what needs to be done today to overcome unemployment, to stop the violent emigration that is taking place from Ukraine. I urge you to support this policy, the factions of the Radical Party, and all the pro-Ukrainian deputies in this parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u73	Thank you. And I also have a statement from two factions: the heads of the faction of Peter Prashenko's Block of Greeniv and the will of the people. Similarly, they are willing to replace the break for the performance. And speak from two factions. Who will act? Igor Green? Igor Green, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u74	Deputies! I have a great request to reconsider my vote under Law 5610. And the request to the Head to return to the vote in absentia. In fact, this is the sort of thing we should do today. I want to thank all those deputies who supported this vote, no matter what may or may not be the majority today. Again, ask for support, vote on Law 5610 today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u75	Colleagues, I've made it clear, there's a right to take a break between groups and factions. Colleagues, there's a request from two factions to reposition. If there are votes, it will be voted if there is not. Please, I'll do it again, take up jobs, colleagues. Colleagues, this is not a matter of ordinary domestic affairs, this is a question of distance justice, this is a matter of honor and dignity, and of the memory of those who died at the hands of the Yanukovich gang. And, colleagues, I ask you to be disciplined during this vote. My colleagues, so I'm voting again. Please take up your jobs. Colleagues, I'm re-voting, take up jobs. So at the request of the two factions of Parliament, because I am not bound by the Rules, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine 5610, adoption, inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote, please support, vote, colleagues. [[17:09:10]] For 211 The decision is not made. Colleagues, let's move on to the next law that we have in our local self-government, 4772. This is a bill amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (for voluntary unification of territorial communities). Without exaggeration, this is the most important law in the block of local self-government. Colleagues, there were discussions, but they created a working group, and they were able to remove all the discussion points. Therefore, I very much ask you to pay great attention when discussing this law and especially when voting. And I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on State Policy and Local Self-Government of Fedorok Mikol Trochymovich. Please, Mikola Trochymovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u76	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! No exaggeration, it may be in line with the Law on Service in Local Self - Government Authorities, one of the most important laws under consideration today on issues of local self - government. At its meeting on November 2, 2016, the Committee on State Building Regional Policy and Local Self-Government reviewed at its meeting the comments and proposals from the legislative initiative subjects to the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for voluntary association of territorial communities) (registration number 4772), submitted by a group of Ukrainian national deputies. And adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a result of the first reading, based on September 20, 2016. A second reading of the bill from the 12 national deputies included 76 suggestions, 51 of which were proposed for consideration, 2 for editorial consideration, and 23 for rejection. As a result of the Committee's general discussion, it was agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft law amending certain legislative acts (for voluntary association of territorial communities) (registration number 4772) as a result of the second reading to be adopted as a whole. The final draft of the bill has been prepared with comments from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority. We propose that the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government be entrusted with preparing it for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to undertake its technical and legal work. Please be supportive. I propose to proceed to the consideration of the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u77	Please be prepared by the amendment authors. And let's move on to the amendments. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u78	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Dear colleagues, we're working on the repairs. Amendment 1 of the People's Deputy Zubach. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, I didn't see you. Please, Mr. Teeth, insist. Your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u79	Lubomir Zubac, Self-Help faction. For no one will it be a secret that this law makes the process of voluntary unification of the territorial communities a semivoluntary process. And it would be nothing, because, in fact, the entrenching of communities is a positive factor. But I have to say that, sadly, to this day most cities in Ukraine have been removed from the process of uniting the territorial communities. And that's very bad because, in fact, they're getting rid of space for development, it's going to be bad for Ukraine's future development. In this context, we have proposed a number of amendments that allow for balancing the interests of villages and cities, introducing the so-called notion of agglomeration, cities of agglomeration and balanced to continue the process of uniting communities. In this regard, please support Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u80	Let us put to the vote amendment number one of Honorable Fellow Zuba. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:13:40]] For 114 Unfortunately, your amendment is not supported. Amendment No. 3 of the People's Deputies of Odarchenka. Are you insisting? I don't see the People's Deputy Odarchenk. Amendment number 7 of the Teeth. Mr. Dentist, are you insisting on 7th? I can't see, can't I? Please, Mr. Dentist's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention. It's too bad they didn't support it. Because today the entire civilized world is developing at the expense of cities, yes. We can deny it, but it won't make sense. More than two thirds of the gross economic product is produced in cities. It is in cities that the cultural, social, and human potential are concentrated. That's why we're here. All civilized countries, they support cities. They give them the opportunity to develop. This includes spatial development. So once again, I'm going to ask you to take that into account. Let us make the process of uniting communities balanced in order to take into account the interests of villages and cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u82	Thank you. Mr. Fedoruk wants to comment from the profile committee. There is no such thing under the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u83	Mr. Lubomir, I want to, and, honourable national MPs, I want to draw your attention to these amendments by Mr. Lubomir Zuba. They are all, under our previous agreement with you, made in 52 amendments, where they are in a transitional position. And they're going to be considered just when the amendment number 52 is being considered. And anything else, I'm asking you not to insist on confirmation, because they won't get confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u84	Please, under the insistence of the People's Deputy Zubad, I place his amendment number seven to the vote. But I'm asking you to listen to the comment by the head of the profile committee so that we can move on to the amendments and get there by 52, that's where we're going. Vote seven, please. [[17:16:02]] For-103 103 deputies, your amendment is not supported. Let's move on. Amendment No. 8 of the People's Deputy of Zuba. You insist. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u85	Colleagues, note that to date no city in the district center has formed a united territorial community. Ask yourself why. Neither the Chernigs, Odessa, Kharkiv, or Johno - Frankschik are initiating the formation of a united community. And the explanation for this is twofold. On the one hand, cities are district centers, they're not interested in going to new elections. On the other hand, these populated areas that are in suburban areas, they're afraid of being absorbed, they don't want to. Thus, the simple use of community reunification is not suitable for cities — district centers. So we're proposing an agglomeration as a kind that preserves the self-governing status of rural councils within the suburban zone, and cooperation is based on an agreement on intermunicipal cooperation. Everyone stays positive. It's the choice when there's win-win when everyone wins. Why not?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u86	Thank you. Place your amendment on the vote. Let's put, more faithfully, to the vote amendment number 89, People's Deputy Zubak. Please vote. [[17:17:44]] For 104 104 deputies only supported it. It's not coming through. Let's move on. Please, a hundred. Excuse me, 9th Amendment, People's Deputy Odarchenka. Don't insist. 14th, Zuba. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Thank you. Next. 17th People's Deputy Odarchenka. Don't insist. 19th, Pietovka. I can't see. 21st, Pietovka. I can't see. 25th, Petaovka. Don't insist. 26th, Odarchenko. Don't insist. 29th, Pietovka. Don't insist. 31st, Dentist. Don't insist. 33rd, Petaovka. Don't insist. 43rd, Odarchenko. Don't insist. 45th, Teeth. See, 45th. Are you insisting? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u87	My colleagues, I'll tell you who's really not interested in creating cities of agglomeration. Everyone understands that, in fact, the villages that are in the suburban area are the inhabitants of the only socio-economic organism. Not interested in creating this agglomeration, in fact, the so-called local elites, local oligarchs who are not interested in making it. do not think about providing people with services. They think about how to form a community, take power, and manage resources. They are the ones who block the adoption of these amendments. I think without them, without balancing the interests of villages and cities, this law loses meaning, it's harmful. By accepting it, our offspring will have to correct this error.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u88	Please, at the request of our colleague, let us put to the vote the amendment of People’s Deputies No. 45. Please vote. [[17:20:01]] For-96 96 deputies supported your amendment, it's not coming through. Amendment of the 47th People's Derevyanka. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Thank you. Amendment No. 48 of the Fedoruku People's Deputy. Don't insist. Amendment 49 of the Odarchenka. Don't insist. Amendment 50, Friday. Don't insist. Amendment of the 51st Timoshenko Yuri. Don't insist. Now, just a minute. Amendment number 52. National MP. To confirm, the national deputy of Guljav wants to put it on. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u89	This amendment is very shameful. We all say that we allow ourselves to be freely united by all the communities, and this amendment forbids us from joining the communities around the cities. This is 12 miles [2.5 km] from the border and 20 kilometers [20 km] from the center. So are we talking about voluntary unity or what are we talking about? If all of us are right to unite, these villages and villages near the cities also have the right to unite. Why divide those who are in the deep and those who are in the midst? I'm asking you to place this amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u90	Please comment from the profile committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u91	That's exactly what I was talking about from the very beginning, what National Deputy Zubak was talking about. But I, Vasil Alexanderovich Guljav, I'm asking you to pay attention, you mean there's 52 amendments made up of two parts: part one and part two. You mean the first part, yes, put on confirmation. The first part. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, I've heard the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u93	So the committee's proposal to confirm the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, therefore, the national deputy of Guljav called for this amendment to be confirmed. The committee requests the hall to confirm this amendment, to vote in favour. Now we've heard two positions and, please, I'm betting on confirmation of the 52 amendment, the committee is asking for a vote in favour. Voting, please. [[17:22:53]] For-143 Yeah, we're moving on. 143 votes. Dear colleagues, next amendment 53. Our colleague, Mrs. Olena Bodnar, Boyko, I'm sorry. Mrs. Olena, excuse me, for God's sake. Ask for confirmation. Mrs. Oleg, please. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, I draw your attention to the importance of this bill for most of our communities, who are waiting for unity and have decided to join the already able and created, is their will. Please support this bill. And I'm very surprised at the position of my colleague on the committee, which at first said that this law is a violation of volunteerism. That's not true, it's the law of the people. We're here to support the people. Please. And the ambitions of agglomerations will be satisfied by the new individual law. I'm calling Self-Help. Support this law as a whole, please! We're expected to do that. Thank you. There is no need for 53 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u96	Thank you for your position. I understand your position, Your Honor, that you don't insist on confirming the amendment, but you insist on adopting the bill. Let's move on then, dear fellows. You know, we're getting close to the end of the amendment. I very much ask the people's deputies to return to the session room so that we can have a successful vote for the last bill in the bloc important to decentralization, honourable colleagues. Please, there will be a vote now, come into the session room. Amendment 73 of the Odarchenka People's Deputy. Don't insist. 73rd. No, 73rd. 74th Knazevitch, she's counted. Colleagues, we're done with the repairs. Now I'm giving my colleagues 30 seconds to go back to work. Please, I'm giving you just a minute to say the words of the final committee for the profile, for the head of the subcommittee, for the construction, for the regional policy and for the local self-government of Mikola Fedoruku. Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! This bill awaits more than half a million of our voters with you. And he, by adopting him as a committee editor, will be able to further create 200 united territorial communities to the 366 that have been created and operated today. So I propose to adopt this bill in a second reading in the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u98	Thank you. Colleagues, I see that all those in favor of decentralization are returning to the hall. And we're giving the word to the Prime Minister of profile right now to sum it up the same way. Colleagues, please, I ask you to return to the session room. There will now be a key vote for the last draft of the decentralization bloc that we are considering today. Please turn on Mr. Zubek's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a very important day for local self-government, which today awaits the possibility of increasing the tools to make the communities more able, to allow voluntary integration, and thus to increase the quality of services, the possibility of budgeting for infrastructure development and the overall approach to new ones, so to speak, such a stage of decentralization reform that allows today not only for voluntary integration, but for voluntary accession, to address the issue of cooperation among the communities and thus to influence the development of Ukraine's economy at all. So once again, I would like to point out that today is a very relevant and important package of laws to develop local self-government in part of decentralization and voluntary community integration. The next very important bill is the service of local self-government authorities, which will enable competent persons who can work to choose on competitive grounds and to receive such a payment of work as will be determined by local self-government. So once again, I urge the honourable national MPs to support, please, the bill of voluntary accession and the following bills concerning the strengthening of the service in local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u100	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. We're moving on to making a decision. I very much ask that you urge all fellow MPs to enter the hall, prepare for the decision-making process, colleagues. There were many debates, many arguments, but the working group managed to come up with a consolidated version supported by all factions. Colleagues, local communities await this decision and this law. I very much ask you not to be indifferent, to take up jobs. I ask all the deputies now, who are not near their jobs, to come to the workplace and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I urge everyone to take up jobs so that I don't call them names. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (for the voluntary accession of the territorial communities) (number 4772) in the second reading and in general, a colleague. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Let's vote yes! "To"! We'll support the territorial communities. Vote for it, colleagues. Vote! [[17:29:38]] For 222 Four votes, I see. I'll be back. Colleagues, invite the deputies to the hall. I'll be back. But during the vote, some of the deputies were simply not at their jobs. Don't leave the hall, please, colleagues. Please invite the deputies to the hall. There's Ivanchuk, there'll be voices. Don't leave. Please invite your deputies into the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (No. 4772). Please vote, please support the return to 4772. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. I'd like your support, colleagues. We'll support local communities. [[17:31:04]] For 239. We're back. And now I'm putting draft Law 4772 in second reading and in general, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. We'll support local communities. Please vote, colleagues, vote. Take your jobs and we'll vote, colleagues. Please support, please vote, vote, colleagues. [[17:31:39]] For 241 Decision taken. I welcome the entire working group that worked on this bill. Welcome to the government with a very conscientious job. And, colleagues, it was the most important, important law in this block. The next law is the draft Law on Service in Local Self - Government (No. 2489). This is also a second reading. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, Scrum Alona Ivanovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u101	Good afternoon, colleagues! Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! I'm extremely glad that we finally got to this, this huge bill today. He's been standing in the living room a few times, and he's extremely important, and he's waited for by local government officials, and local self-government, and I'm asking my colleagues to stay in the hall, not to break up. Colleagues, this is the bill that basically brings the Public Service Act into line with the basic principles that we have laid down in public service reform in general, the service of local self-government. We did a colossal work on the committee with the deputies and members of our Committee of State, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, with members from other committees that came to us, from various associations. A great deal of work was done with the association of Ukrainian cities, and I thank them very much. With a civil environment, with representatives of experts from the Council of Europe in the area of local self-government. And we got this huge job, and I think it's a pretty thoughtful text of the law, which is supported by the Association of Cities of Ukraine. And today you have the opportunity to see the beautiful infographic that you've prepared and distributed for us, and supported by the experts of the Council of Europe, according to the program of local self-government and development of local self-government in Ukraine, and recommended by the profile committee, to accept it as a basis and as a whole in the second reading with specific technical amendments that I'm about to read. The bill was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers on March 30, 2015, a colleague. We haven't been able to look at this bill for a very long time, and now we're blaming the local government and the officials who work there. So we need to get together now and actually have a look at it. The bill contained a large number of amendments, 834 amendments, each amendment we considered separately, each amendment we considered at the meetings of the working group, whose head I was honored to be, and at the five meetings of the committee, all five of which we devoted to the consideration of these 834 amendments. Of these 834 we counted 364 committees, we rejected 374 and 69 accounted for partially, putting them into the general concept. In preparing the bill for second reading, we also preserved the concept of key positions adopted in the first reading. This is self-regulation of the status of officials of local self-government, depoliticization of the service, a new model of pay for the work that local self-government officials are currently waiting for, vocational training and the professionalization of the service in general. I'm going to ask you to give me another minute to read out the comments that we have from the profile committee that we're asking to take into account. Colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt a bill for the second reading by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the characteristics and a number of technical and legal clarifications that I am about to read. Part four, articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u102	Colleagues, to read proposals from the committee, I add two minutes to make them read under the transcript. Please, Mrs. Alona.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Part four of article 45 is as follows: "In the case of non-contribution by rural, rural, urban, district head in the city, district district council of the proposal provided for in part three of this article, the salary scheme of local government officials shall be approved by the relevant village, city, district council in the city, district council during the review of the local budget project for the following year." This is page 224 of the comparative table, colleagues. The other one. Paragraph 2 of the second article 46 is deleted. See also page 226. Third. The fifth part of article 86 should be deleted by renumbering the following parts. Four. In section XI, paragraph 1, the word "January" is replaced by the word "May". This is page 254. Next. Paragraph 11 of Chapter IX should be supplemented by the first paragraph by the following: "Before the approval of the salary schemes of officials of local self-government, the determination of the level of allowances for the rank and salary of elected posts in accordance with this Act, the conditions of work and the payment of the work that took effect until the date of entry into force of this Act shall be maintained for the employees concerned." And the sixth. In paragraph 1 of chapter 17, the bill replaces the word "six" with the word "three." The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, Bill No. 2489 should be adopted on second reading and in general, taking into account the changes I have just read. In the event of the adoption of the bill, we will also ask the Supreme Council to work with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council on technical and legal development. Thank you, colleagues, and please support us to have enough time to consider these amendments, please bet on confirmations only excessive. The most important adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u104	Colleagues, look, I've seen the law. There's a lot of changes. I have a general request to the committee and to the authors of the amendments: could it be that I simply, who insists on my amendments, propose to raise my hand and read it? Does this form of work take place? Roger that. Because there's a lot of changes. Then, colleagues, I'll do it one by one. But all of you may want to read the amendments. I'll make all the adjustments in one way or another. So here we go. Semenha, right? Turn on the microphone. Please give me an update.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u105	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. The first amendment I'd like to pay attention to is Amendment 150. The bill provides for the establishment of staff services in local authorities. But the problem is that the competence and tasks of this service are not defined in any way in the bill. Instead, it contains only a reference to the standard staff service position approved by the National Agency for Public Service Affairs. Obviously, the bill's stated position is legally invalid. By the way, the General Legal Authority also considers it unacceptable to regulate the activities of local authorities by means of regulations that conflict with article 19 of the Constitution. So I'd like you to support our 150.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u106	Please, Mrs. Alona.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u107	Thank you. Thank you for this amendment. We had a discussion about what might be the limits of any intervention or control in the service of local self-government on the part of the very central executive body that carries out public service policies, that is, the National Public Service Agency. And in fact, throughout the bill, you'll see that we've tried very hard to move this balance towards local self-government and prevent that interference. But the committee actually made a decision, and the working group decided that the staff position in the local self-government body is designed to take into account the standard position, and the standard position, including that approved by the central executive authority, which has to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u108	Thank you. Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u109	The committee decided to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u110	So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 150 people's deputies of Semimenah. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[17:39:59]] For 109 The decision is not taken. Please, let's have another one of yours. Then I'll give it to you. Your next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u111	Semenha Roman, Self-help faction. Amendment 387 proposes to supplement the bill with a standard according to which vacant positions of officials in local self - government bodies, for which no competition has been announced for a month, are to be reduced. Why should we pay attention to this particular point? If there is no competition for a vacancy during the month, is there an obvious conclusion: Does this vacancy need to be spent on such a budget? After all, the manager will often be guided by such a gap, in a form that is prepared for second reading, so that it is very convenient to keep a person in the position of acting without announcing the position. So I'm going to ask you to fix this and support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u112	Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u113	Colleagues, well, the committee was looking at this amendment. The committee debated this, and decided to recommend that the amendment should be rejected. So I'm going to ask her not to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u114	Do you insist on voting? 387, yeah, did I hear that right?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u115	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u116	So I'm voting on amendment 387. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[17:41:33]] For 105 The decision is not made. Next, please. Semensi, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u117	The next amendment is 439. One of the basic tasks of the new Law on Service in Local Self - Government Authorities is the introduction of the most transparent, understandable competitive selection so that the most qualified and professional candidates in these bodies can take office. That's why we have a clear objection to the position of the bill, which allows us to appoint, not the winner of the competition, but the participant of the selection contest. In the event that the winner has refused, they may be assigned to the vacant seat of the person who asked for second place. Obviously, this rule provides a wide circle for potential abuses. That's why I'm proposing to exclude the stated standard from the bill. And in today’s state of affairs, if the winner refuses, the local self - government authorities will be able to recommence a vacancy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u118	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote amendment 439 of the People's Deputy of Semimenha. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports this vote, please. [[17:42:59]] For 105 The decision is not made. Please, Semenha. Turn on the microphone. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u119	Semenha Roman, Self-help faction. Edit next, 450. In particular, it is aimed at developing a competitive selection procedure for officials in local self - government agencies, namely, when only one person applies to participate in the competition. Today, a bill prepared for second reading says that enough applications are made to compete by at least one person to ensure that the competition takes place. And it doesn't matter what position this person claims to be. In my opinion, this approach is wrong or even harmful when it comes to high-level positions, particularly those of the board's executive, the board's executive director, their deputies, the heads of the structural units. I believe that if there is only one candidate for such vacancies for the competition, it is important to re-commit the competition. In order for the competition to truly be open, quality and appropriate positions can be extended to professional and professional people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u120	Thank you, colleagues. So you insist on voting? I'm voting for 450 people's deputies, Roman Semenha. Whoever supports it has rejected the committee, please vote. [[17:44:31]] For a hundred and And the last amendment of Semenha, please turn on the microphone. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u121	Thank you, Mr. Head. Amendment number 584. At present, the problem of ensuring the expertise of local authorities is one of the sharpest. That is why the creation of a truly effective system for improving the skills of local authorities should be given special attention. This time it's our turn. It specifies the responsibilities of the service manager at the local self-government body in the field of improving the qualifications of the officials of the body, sets out the requirements for the duration of such qualification competitions, which all officials are required to attend, determines the conditions of payment for this term under, during the course of the qualification courses. Therefore, the amendment is beneficial and meaningful, and I ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u122	They insist on voting. And I'm voting on amendment 584 of Roman Semenha, the People's Deputy. Whoever supports it, please vote. The committee turned it down. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:45:46.]] For a-117. The decision is not made. So let's move on to Vadim Yvchenk. Please, Mr. Yvchenko, turn on the microphone, your repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u123	Thank you. Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, first of all, I wanted to thank the committee that they were so professional in this law. It is indeed necessary for local authorities to exercise self - control. But I wanted you to understand clearly that local self - government bodies vary in number and area. These could be rural, rural councils, they could be united territorial communities of several villages, and they could be large district centers. Is that why I'm editing, like 605? which is rejected, it tells us that counseling or methodical assistance will be done by teachers. But you write: mentoring is directly directed by a government official who has such requirements: higher education is not below the master’s degree. I can honestly say that this may complicate the work of picking up personnel for these positions in local self - government, self - unified communities, villages, villages, or cities of district importance. Because, believe me, it's hard enough to find a master who's doing the right job. You rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u124	Do you insist on voting? 605 revisions, I didn't make a mistake, did I? Please let me make a deal. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u125	Thank you, Your Honor. I insist that we support this amendment, because I want it to work in a practical way for small organs of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u126	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote 605 of the national deputy Yvchenka, who was rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please, colleagues. [[17:47:49]] For 131 The decision is not made. Please, let's do the next one. Vadim Ivchenko. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's 293. Amendment 293 speaks of the following, which is held as an act of competition, and then the ethic contest is approved by the appropriate city, village council, or village council. Colleagues, let us be frank: In large cities a coalition of factions or a coalition of political powers takes responsibility and in principle forms an appropriate authority in the territory. The competitive commission is going to pick people, and this faction of factions is just going to do it as a point of approval. I suggested that there should be no approval, namely, an appointment. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to do this, because we're going to have a conflict with the fact that they won't agree, the responsibilities of these councils are not going to be borne, and they're going to claim the right, and the responsibilities of no one and no one is going to be able to impose them. But if they take responsibility and are appointed, they will influence the right things. I'm asking that there be a prize.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u128	They insist on voting, right? So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 293 national MP Yvchenka. Who supports the amendment that the committee rejected, please vote. Please, 293, Yvchenko. [[17:49:33]] For 104 The decision is not taken. The following changes. Hennaday Derivyanko Please turn on the microphone. Oh, Yuri Derevyanko. Yuri Derevyanko, I'm sorry. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u129	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Dear colleagues, my amendments are to be made before the contest is scheduled. an appointment will be made through the competition to ensure that online testing is carried out in accordance with the order approved by the central executive authority, which ensures public policy in the field of public service. And those people who didn't go through such an online test that the competition wasn't allowed. Here's my first proposal, and here's a few other amendments that relate to the ability and access of every citizen to such a service in local self-government through the national human resources reserve mechanism. It's such a site, an online system so electronic, where every citizen has the opportunity to place his or her application and this body is obliged to invite such a citizen to a competition if it happens. This online system also has online tests, and there should be and there should be all the vacancies that are appropriate. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u130	Please call the amendment number for the vote you insist on. Turn on the microphone, Drevijanka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u131	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u132	There's no time.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u133	The first amendment is Amendment 6, if I'm right about online testing. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u134	So, colleagues, an amendment is made to the vote. Well, it's unprofessional work, Mr. Yuri. Let me mention it and put it to a vote. Remember, call the number, then I'll put it to the vote. Now fix it, Pinzenic. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u135	Dear National Deputies! I'd like to propose to confirm amendment 808. The first reading of the law decrees that the pension of employees of local self-government bodies is assigned under the only pension law is the right one. We must give up the immoral, shameful practice of dividing Ukrainian pensioners into varieties. But the second reading takes into account the standard that restores this practice, and it restores special pension regimes. No one is entitled to special pensions, all citizens are equal before the law. A deputy, a prosecutor, a judge, and one law must apply to all. So I'm asking you to put this amendment to confirm and not vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u136	Please, Olena Skrum, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u137	Thank you for your position, Mr. Pinzenick. We had the same discussion with you during the adoption of the Law on State Service, you remember. I respect your opinion here, but we still have a tendency on the committee to believe that, yes, the same law should apply to all citizens of Ukraine, but the law cannot reverse. And since those officials of local self - government, like government officials, have worked for tens of years in the public service or in the service of the organs and have relied on a special pension or a separate pension, we cannot reverse the law for them and this is the position our committee has taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u138	I understand it's not a confirmation, and the committee's asking for confirmation, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u139	The committee asks not to support Mr. Pinzenic's amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u140	I'm betting on confirmation of 808 law. So whoever supports this amendment, please vote, to confirm 808 amendments. Please vote. The committee's asking for support. The committee's asking for support, colleagues. [[17:54:00]] For 158. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 808, look for now. Please turn on the microphone, Oleni Shkrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u141	Colleagues, please look at the last table, 808 revisions is actually my non-retirement policy, Mr. Pinzenik. You said one correction, you called another one, and that's why we don't have a coincidence. It's an article numbering, not at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u142	Come on, Mr. Victor, you're gonna have to work out the bill tomorrow, get to her and figure it out. Now, Drevijanko Yuri, name your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u143	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Dear Chairman and Honourable Reporter, my amendment to the National Human Resources Reserve is Amendment 285. And my amendment, which concerns mandatory online testing, is Amendment 277. Please put them to the vote in turn – 275 and 277.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u144	I'll make it clear. You want me to put two tickets to the vote: 275 and 277. Yeah? Two revisions. Okay. So, colleagues, I'm putting Yuri Derevyanka to the vote in turn. First, the 275, which was rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[17:55:39]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Next, I put to the vote Amendment 277 of Jury the Tree. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please vote. [[17:56:04]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. So I would like to give the floor to Mr. Yuri Shuhevich's appeal. Please turn on the microphone. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u145	I insist on confirming 819. The thing is, this is committee law, and the committee allowed itself to cancel article 56, there on the public service, and set up a whole lot of privileges there. And again, what Mr. Pinzenik said is that they do privileged pensions, they divide pensioners again into white and black. I demand confirmation of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u146	Please turn on Alona Shkrum's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u147	Colleagues, colleagues, we had exactly that kind of discussion about pension insurance for government officials. This amendment 819, requested by you for confirmation, was signed by me as the head of the working group, Mr. Zubaz of the Self-Help faction, Mr. Kudlainko of the BPT faction, Mr. Kurilo and Mr. Reka, i.e. all the members of the working group that worked. Colleagues, pension insurance is not the only issue with this law, it's a huge number of issues. I'm just asking you not to balance the law because we don't agree on one issue: pension insurance. And the committee's asking for this right to be confirmed, it's considered by the committee and it doesn't balance the whole law in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u148	Thank you. Colleagues, I would stress, are asking the committee to support the confirmation of 819. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal by Yuri Suhevich to confirm the 819. The committee is asking to vote in favour of its confirmation. Please, colleagues, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:58:15]] For-179 The decision is not made. My colleagues, I'll give you my word. Colleagues, I'm going to continue this session for 15 minutes, but I'm asking the right-wing authors very much, especially if they're in favor of this law, not to overdo it, because we're just going to lose votes in the hall. I'm asking you to work more closely and more intensively. Next item. Turn on Mr. Yuri Suhevich's microphone. Turn on Yuri Suhevich's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u149	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies, 829 refers to the recalculation of pensions. This was adopted by us in the Pension Insurance Act as early as 2015. Recalculate pensions and not divide them into whites and blacks. And our amendment, it was rejected by the committee, I insist on confirming this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u150	Number, call the number again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u151	829.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u152	829. Thank you. Please, Olena Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u153	Friends, no one's dividing the pensioners into white and black, I repeat. We had this discussion. Colleagues, all who are now going to be officials and civil servants, will receive a pension just like all other Ukrainian citizens. This is about those officials who have worked for 10 years, who are over 10 years of age, and who have worked for this pension. Well, as far as I'm concerned, that's fair. I think that pension regulation in general is not the main problem of this law and not the main issue. There should be a separate pension law and pension reform. And I look forward to it, including the government of this pension reform, my colleague. And don't balance it here, please, the law. I propose this proposal now to reject Mr. Suhevich and confirm the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u154	Colleagues! This amendment was rejected by the committee. Declined. Mr. Yuri asks for her support. So I'm putting Yuri Suhevich's amendment to the vote. The committee turned her down. Those who support Amendment 829, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[18:00:47]] For 158. The decision is not made. Colleagues, just so I can get my bearings straight. Another Derevyanko, I see. Who else insists? Lechenko. Mr. Yuri, how many amendments? Four. And how much? Alone? Colleagues, this will take about five minutes. I'm asking you to keep your distance, colleagues. In five to seven minutes, there will be a vote under this fundamental law, and I'm asking you to be very brief. Yuri Derevyanko, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u155	Yuri Derevyanco, political party of Will, honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, my amendment refers to the possibility of our young people being able to engage in the service of local self-government without corruption, without bribes, without any prosthetics and such. How? I propose that a national human resources reserve be created in the country, this is an electronic system, according to which every citizen who wants to take up a job sends his application, every local self-government authority is obliged to invite this citizen to a competition, there is an online testing in this system, there is a vacancy in this system that exists in all local governments, and this is a modern system that will allow us to access services in local self-government bodies to a wide range of people. So I ask you to support this 288 amendment, this system is state-owned, it will be run by an appropriate agency that is now active in the public service, and it will be maintained in the state-of-the-art. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u156	Colleagues, I have a general request, don't leave the hall for a few more minutes, and there will be a vote, a few minutes, no one will be saved from any meetings. Please stay in the hall. I am voting on amendment 288 of the People’s Deputy Deputies. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. Please vote. [[18:02:56]] For 113 The decision is not made. Dear colleagues, the latest remedies that are before this law. Yuri Lewchenko. Mr. Yuri, please call them together, and we will vote each of them. Mr. Yuri, if possible. Turn on the microphone, 1 minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u157	I'm sorry, Mr. Andrey, I can't physically name them together, because it's a different meaning of absolute correction. So the first one, 210th, refers to the next one. The fact is, unfortunately, the bill is prescribed in such a way that officials of the local authorities will be forced to carry out the criminal orders of their leaders. Because from his position it follows that illegal orders, apart from the manifestly criminal ones -- and what is obviously not prescribed -- are to be carried out. Their failure is the basis for the release of an official on the basis of part one of article 42. And an official is obliged to obey an order even when he considers it manifestly illegal. If the order later turns out to be criminal, then the fate of the official will depend on the court’s assessment of the so - called manifestity of the crime. This has been strengthened by the responsibility of officials of local authorities to carry out illegal orders, leading to the possibility of committing corruption directly through the adoption of appropriate orders. Therefore, I propose that I specifically prescribe, clearly in the law, that illegal orders are not binding and are not responsible for their failure to comply.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u158	Mr. Yuri, what's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u159	I said it first. I said 210 at the beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u160	210 axles. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 210 People's Deputies of Lewchenk. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. Please. [[18:04:55]] For 115 The decision is not made. Turn on Lechchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u161	Amendment 335. The bill foresees that a competition for vacant administrative posts is run by a competition commission formed by a service manager. This means that every local authority in Ukraine is obliged to create a competitive commission. Given that 459 cities, 885 villages, and 10 thousand 278 rural councils are to be established in Ukraine, 11,000,623 competitive commissions are to be established. In view of the minimum number of members of a commission of at least 3 persons, more than 35,000 persons should be employed to participate in such competitive commissions. Moreover, there are local authorities that do not have more than five employees. In this regard, the competitive commission will be as composed as the self - government body itself, which is absurd. So these absurd positions need to be changed. So I suggest that it is appropriate to create a system of commissions at the national level, especially such commissions, to exist only in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the areas, the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol and all. No committees in the village council. It's just an absurdity and a dream to bear the brunt of bureaucracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u162	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 335 People's Deputy Levchenk, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. Please. [[18:06:28]] For 105 The decision is not made. And I hope it's the last one, isn't it? Two. Please be brief, Mr. Yuri, because the time has passed. Turn on Lechchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u163	Amendment 413. The law lays down three plus five days from the time of the competitive commission to the time when its decision is made public. This is not justified by any objective need, for all activities related to the preparation, printing, signing, and publishing of a competitive commission protocol are sufficient for several hours, in fact. Such standards in the area of the signing and publication of the competition commission protocol create a situation of legal uncertainty, legal uncertainty within 8 days, which violates both the rights of the winners of the competition and the rights of the participants who wish to challenge it. This eight-day period will be actively used by the contestants to find an impact on the decisions of its members, perhaps by giving undue benefit. And the latter can use this period in order to get the wrong benefit from the contestants. So I'm proposing that this period be maximized so that it actually happens instantly, not as it is now proposed for 8 days. For corruption, actually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u164	The repair number? Number?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u165	Correction number 413.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u166	So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 413 People's Deputies of Lechchenka. Whoever supports it, please vote. It's a committee against it. Please vote. [[18:08:03]] For-94 The decision is not made. And, colleagues, the last amendment before I ask everyone to come to the hall, please come in and take jobs, now let's move on to making a decision. Please, Mr. Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u167	I regret that many amendments to the right ones, all the correct amendments that have been made in this room today to this important law, have not been taken into account. So again, we come up with a half-part of the law that doesn't know whether it will do better or do worse. And so I have the last amendment to 796, which concerns giving a prize to the village, the village head, the district head, the district council district council, is going to need it for concrete results, not just because someone there decided that a bonus should be given. So I'm proposing exactly why we give the prizes. The prize should be granted only in the case of the local budget, so there will be, in fact, budget costs at the expense of the surplus, from which it will be possible to issue a bonus to the respective head. Not so that the head, who is still stealing from his community, will receive any rewards from the scarce budget of this poor community. He just provided a surplus, then he got a 100 percent bonus, that's an incentive, and that's perfectly logical. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u168	Number, number?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u169	796.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u170	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm voting on amendment 796 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. It was rejected by the committee who supported the amendment, please vote, please vote. [[18:09:48]] For 118 The decision is not made. Colleagues, that's how we ended up discussing the fundamental law on service in local self-government. I'm asking everyone to step into the voting room. Now, literally, one minute for the author of Helen Schrum and Gennady Zubko. Please, Mrs. Olena, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u171	Thank you, colleagues. Thank you all for your fruitful work on repairs. Most importantly, I have to read under the transcript that if this bill is adopted as a result of a second reading, and in general, I ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to entrust our professional committee in preparing the bill to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to implement, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, technical and legal amendments, because the amendments could change something. Colleagues, a dutiful law, are long - awaited. I believe he can unify the hall, let's vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u172	Thank you. And one minute, Deputy Prime Minister Hennaday Zubko. And we vote, colleagues. Please, Hennaday Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u173	Thank you, Your Honor Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, this law is a logical continuation of the reform of the public service and allows you to become a part of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. When we transfer funds, responsibilities to places, we also allow competent, professional personnel to be involved, who will exercise authority, and who will be able to develop local self-government. Therefore, I ask once again the distinguished national deputies, to unite around this issue, to support this bill, and to take a step forward towards Ukraine’s future local self - rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-09-m1.u174	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Once again, a fundamental bill was tabled by the government of Yatsenuk to Parliament. And I put to the vote the draft Law on Service in Local Government (number 2489) in second reading and in general, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[18:12:10]] For 253 [[Applause]] Decision taken. Congratulations, fellows! Dear colleagues, this has been a difficult day, but I think we have adopted extremely important bills to push our reform of local self-government forward. Worked fruitfully, thanks for the work done, the work done. And welcome to all the local communities, the reform of local self-government goes and wins! The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow morning at 10 a.m., we meet at the Supreme Council of Ukraine to continue our work, not easy, but necessary for Ukraine. Thank you, colleagues. Good-bye.
