ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u1	Colleagues, 4:00. Time spent for a break is over. Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Heads of factions, Secretariat, please invite deputies to the Hall. Please come into the hall. Anyone who can hear me in the classroom, please concentrate, take up jobs, and prepare for registration. So please prepare for registration. And I'd like you to sign up. Please. [[16:03:48]] 356. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. Now we're going to the second-reading block. These issues from different backgrounds are united by one: they are short, they have few rights, and most of them are agreed upon by all factions of Parliament. Regrettably, the first of the laws that stands still has no commentator. We'll wait for him to come. And we move on to the next law by which there is a reporter, just as we spoke to John Petrovich. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Drinking Water and Drinking Water (for the Improvement of Certain Provisions) (No. 4582). I remind you, this is the second reading, the right-wing authors will be speaking, and the head of the subcommittee will give them a solid answer to their questions. Let's move on to 4582, and I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster by Ribak Ivan Petrovich. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the people, you are invited to consider Bill No. 4582 on drinking water and drinking water. Dear colleagues, the Drinking Water and Drinking Water Act, was introduced by the government and prepared by the Committee for second reading. The committee proposes to support this bill in its second reading and to adopt it as a law. You know that the condition of our waters is approaching critical. This has to do with the dumping of unclean and uncleaned sewage. This project sets out the general requirements for sewage discharges in the sewerage system of populated sites and prevents the deterioration of drinking water quality in drinking water sources through the discharges in centralized sewage treatment systems by operators. In addition, the bill takes into account the fundamental approaches and principles of water management and the provision of centralised water supply facilities, as required by EU Directive 91271 on the treatment of urban sewage. The project also takes into account the need for a clear definition of drinking water as a food product and drinking water, which, according to popular approaches in the European Union, in particular Article 6 of Directive 9883 of the European Union on the quality of water intended for human consumption, is not considered to be a food product that is in practice directly related to the differentiation of requirements regarding the quality of drinking water and the delimitation of the powers of the relevant regulatory and control bodies. The project also regulates the adoption by local authorities of local rules on the adoption of sewage, which is fully in line with the authority given to rural, rural, urban councils by the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government. The bill lays down the legal basis for the transition to a European governance system in this area. I would like to point out that the adoption of this bill will in no way affect municipal water tariffs. The project has received 123 proposals that have been carefully considered by our Committee on Environmental Protection, Environmental Management, and the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Of the 123 suggestions that came to the committee, there are 70 rights. Based on the 27 editorial regulations and not only 26 technical rights submitted to our committee in the preparation of Bill 4582 "On Drinking Water and Drinking Water" for second reading. The bill deals with a number of important issues at once.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u3	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u4	The bill deals with a number of important issues in terms of water supply to the population at once. First of all, it's about increased control over the quality of the water in question, which is supplied to Ukrainian homes. We know that the environmental situation in different regions is completely different. Similarly, various sources of water supply. But there is injustice when one is supplied with suitable and quality water and the other with poorer quality. In doing so, the cost of supplies and water supply is exactly the same. And now there are many diseases associated with drinking water. This law will provide for better monitoring of compliance with minimum requirements for water treatment and treatment. Secondly, this law introduces more clear control and higher responsibility for sewage and unauthorized discharge of sewage. Overcrowding and pumping stations, including the pollution of the area, are the most common among local residents. And the third.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u5	Please, 30 seconds. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u6	And the last. The level of management of such services is increasing. They become more reliable, more responsible, and more honest. Because in existing competitive conditions, the community can identify another service provider. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u7	Thank you. So please prepare the right-wing authors for discussion. I'm only going to call those corrections that are rejected. 10th People's Deputies, Ednak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u8	Dear colleagues! In order to understand the depth of my very important 10 revisions, I just want to remind you of the goals and ways of achieving the goals set before this law. The purpose of the draft law is to improve legislation in the field of drinking water and water supply, to regulate relations related to the production, transport, and supply of drinking water, to remove, transport and clean wastewater for the guaranteed provision of quality drinking water and central water supply, as well as to prevent the deterioration of drinking water quality. So I'd like a colleague of the national deputies to just support my 10th amendment, which says that paragraph 5 of sub-paragraph 2 is the word "removed from a built-in area in which it was formed as a result of the fall of atmospheric precipitation" simply to replace the words "surfaces of sewage". So this is actually bringing European standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u9	Please comment. Ivan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u10	Dear Ostapa Volodymyrovich, you really want to introduce this notion into this bill as "the surface of the water supply" instead of the first reading of the text of the atmospheric event. "water formed by the fall of atmospheric precipitation." But we did not take your application into account in the committee solely because, in the second article 1, the terms are defined exclusively as defined in the Water Code. Thus, the amendment was not counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u11	Thank you. Next. Do you insist on voting? Yes, please put to the vote Amendment No. 10 of the People’s Deputies of Eden. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[16:12:39]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Next, the 27th Amendment was rejected, and again, the national MP, Ednak. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u12	Yeah, well, it's a shame, actually, that we didn't support my previous amendment 10 because we would really bring the terminology of the law into line and make it better, but in principle it's not a disaster, I think it'll be okay. But in fact, the 27th amendment, it also says that in article 7, paragraph 6, of the Law, the word "centralized" should be deleted. Because it's suggested in the first reading that paragraph seventh after the words "drinking water supply" be added to the words "and centralized water supply." We're saying that there should be a simple "watering" whether it's centralized or not centralized and thus broaden the concept in this article. So I'd like a colleague of the people's deputies to support my 27th amendment and, in fact, delete the word "centralized." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u13	Thank you. Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u14	Dear Ostap Volodymyrovich! We can't rule out the word "centralized" in this case in article 7, paragraph 6, since we have the possibility not only of centralized water supply in general throughout the country, but someone has made separate sewage systems for their homes, somewhere there is centralized water supply. Therefore, the obligation of central authorities and local authorities only applies to centralised ones; other regulatory cases can not be implemented at this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u15	Do you insist on voting? Yes. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 27, National Deputy Ednak. Whoever supports the amendment, please vote, the committee rejected it. So let me vote on who supports it, please. [[16:15:10]] For-68 The decision is not taken. 30th, Ednak. Is it insisting? He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that this bill is extremely important for the state, for our housing and for the environment, for the health of the people. What do we have in the hall right now? There are about 120, 130 seats of national deputies, although there are more in the room. I very much ask the faction leaders, the faction leaders, to invite deputies into the hall so that we can effectively process this law. In fact, voting and voting efficiency, as amended, is not good either, because really important amendments that improve the bill. In fact, 30 amendments, she proposes part two of article 7 after the word "water supply" is added with the word "and sanitation". It's a perfectly logical correction, because the sanitation itself, it has to be part of the water supply process. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to respond positively to my offer, to consider this amendment, and, I'm sorry the committee didn't go to my meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u17	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u18	Dear Ostap Volodymyrovich, indeed, sanitation would be a perfectly logical norm if it existed in a normative base. But there's no such concept at the moment, so the committee was guided by the notion that the concept of "sanitary" in the normative base is missing, so we rejected the right. But I agree with you, I agree with the logic of your question, in fact, and your remedy as to what, where there is a water issue, it should be clean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u19	So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 30 people's deputies, One, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:17:24]] For-73 The decision is not taken. 39th. The same. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, once again I call upon all the national MPs to come and support this very, very important law. And, I see, by the way, that our number here is increasing in the hall, and we'll soon be ready for a productive and effective vote. But if you talk about my amendment, which, unfortunately, the committee didn't take into account, again, I propose that the word "centralized" be excluded, it's like 10 amendments, which unfortunately we didn't support again. And actually, I also want to not narrow it down to "centralized plumbing," just to remove that word from an article that's suggested in the first reading. Please support my amendment and ask Mr. Ribak to comment. I hope I can find support in both the reporter and the audience, and we'll find the required number of votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u21	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u22	Dear Ostap Volodymyrovich, this is a similar situation. I agree with you that a centralized issue might be a failure, but another formulation of this article cannot be applied. I repeat, but there are both centralized systems and individual plumbing systems in Ukraine. Thus, the amendment was taken into account in an editorial way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u23	So I'm voting on Amendment 39, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[16:19:22]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, there's literally a few amendments left, and I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall, and in five or seven minutes there's going to be a vote. And please invite the heads of the factions of the deputies to the decision-making room. Next, 41 revisions, Neda. Don't insist. 52nd, Nedda. Don't insist. 57th, Ednak. He insists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, as I went back to the previous amendments, where I asked the word "centralized" to exclude, similarly to my 57 amendment, paragraph 8 should be supplemented by the words "and water" and the word "centralized" should be deleted. And this, I think, is a useful and intelligent proposal, which, unfortunately, was not supported by the committee. I'd like a room to vote in favour of my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u25	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u26	Dear Ostap Volodymyrovich, we have stopped on the committee at the next part of the corresponding article: "Abzac the eighth to complete with the words "and sanitary protection zones of centralized water supply objects." I will try to explain the logic of our things: Sanitation zones are designed only for centralized water supplies. That's what we were guided by, so that's what the committee approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u27	Thank you. I'll bet the vote on Amendment 57. The committee didn't count it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[16:21:24]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Next, 64th, Lechchenko. Is he insisting? He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u28	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, in fact, a systematic analysis of the bill shows a bold effort at the legislative level to secure mechanisms for the arbitrary and uncontrolled expansion of water supply. In this project, the need to improve legislation in the field of drinking water supply and to prevent the deterioration of the quality of drinking water is, in fact, an attempt to legitimize the system of total digestion and the congregations for the intake of sewage, water supply, that is to say, the use of sewerage systems. Now, in fact, there are only two technical aspects at the level of local rules: allowable concentrations and characteristics of local sewerage. Here, it is suggested that the basic requirements for the adoption of liquid water by enterprises, the basic requirements for discharges by entities, be established at the local level. Fluid water to the centralized drainage system, quality and decontamination requirements, and the amount of pay for rejection of sewage. Thus, it is suggested that full legal regulation of conduct in the field of water management be strengthened by local regulations. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u29	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u30	That is, it is suggested that the possibility of full right-wing regulation in the water supply sector can be strengthened by local rules for the adoption of sewage. This is not only contrary to the stated purpose but also contrary to the Constitution and is an attempt to translate the functions of lawmaking into enterprises whose activities require legal regulation. That is, instead of improving the law, water canals are offered the right to create their own local tariff rules. Well, it's total nonsense, you can't support this bill. And I'd like you to support my amendment, which suggests that you take these changes for the locals.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u31	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u32	Dear colleague, in every area, the composition of sewers differs depending on the ratio of the sewers received to the natural persons and industrial enterprises. In particular, the streams according to their structure and according to their composition in Dnipropetrovsk, in Dnipropetrovsk, are completely different from the streams it receives. they accept cleaning facilities in the town of Chernivka. Like Dnipropetrovsk. The city of Dnipropetrovsk has a huge number of businesses that dump harmful substances into sewerage networks, and there are absolutely no such enterprises in the Chernobyl region. There is also a difference in the composition of streams from industrial enterprises. Companies operating in a metallurgical complex are totally throwing off other discounts on sewer networks than companies that are, well, working in the tourism industry. Thus, averages in Ukraine cannot be applied to all businesses, but they need a completely individual approach. So it's the ability to form this system, this structure.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u33	Thirty seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u34	That's why we're in the bill, when we're considering this bill on the committee, we've rejected your bill with all due respect, but we're counting on it to be given to the local structures just to make sure that they, taking into account their own individual local specifics, are directly developing sewerage programmes for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u35	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm voting on amendment 64 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:25:26]] For-48 The decision is not taken. The following 73 amendments. Lechenko insists? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u36	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, this amendment of mine concerns the same question. I'd like to answer now to a reporter who said the right things. But these right problems that you've been paying attention to have to be solved at the level of Ukrainian legislation with appropriate stopping standards of balance rather than transfer, transfer to the subject himself the right to create his own rules of living. Well, that's bullshit, you know? So they're actually going to regulate themselves, and they're going to write themselves the rules, and then they're going to have tariffs. This is totally unacceptable, and this is contrary to logic at all, as if by state construction, and, in particular, the Constitution of Ukraine, the series of articles of the Constitution of Ukraine contradicts. So what I'm saying is that you can't pass on the law, so huge, wide-ranging local water intake rules at the water channel level. This should be laid down in detail in legislation, in fact. So I'm still asking you to take this amendment into account. Well, if it's not counted, I urge the session room not to vote in favour of this bill in this way, because it will create.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u37	Please comment, Mr. John.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u38	Mr. Jury, we recently voted in favour of Bill 3323 on special water use in Ukraine. This bill, which is already signed today and it's a valid legal act, you and I have set a standard for special water use and sanitation. And that's where we put all the necessary standards you're talking about. At this point in time, while receiving a permit for special water use, the company is the host entity, applying for a suitable permit, receiving appropriate permission with the indication of the harmful substances it disposes of. But once again, we have to understand the following thing: that the technological process for all water treatment enterprises, water collection, is completely different. The technological process of manufacturing the enterprise is specific. Accordingly, water and sanitation farms are different in each enterprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u39	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u40	They're absolutely different, so we can't apply the same system for all of us in the whole state, I repeat, for the Carpathian region and for the industrial region of Dnipropetrovsty or Zaporozhye. Thus, the committee rejected the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u41	Do you insist on voting, Mr. Yuri? I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 73rd People's Deputy Levchenk. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:28:53]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, there are three adjustments left. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies to the Hall right now and ask the factions to invite the deputies into the Hall. 75th, Nedda. Don't insist. 81st, Nedda. Don't insist. 99th. The same. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u42	Dear fellow national MPs! I just want to explain and remind you what's going on with us. Because of our delay throughout all our years of independence from reform, we've actually turned our country into a garbage dump, and now, just now, we're waiting for a waste management strategy and we're going to fight this problem. In order for our country not to be transformed into, I'm sorry, a sewer or sewer, we really need to vote today on the Drinking Water, Water and Water Act. Amendment 99, I'll tell you honestly, it's not critical. And those amendments that the Hall unfortunately didn't support today would have improved the bill, but it's still good, it's quality, and it needs our attention and acceptance. I don't insist on my 99th amendment and voting, which is actually complementary to the second paragraph of the "State standard" to the words "value that is economically accessible." But I would like to ask John Petrovich Rybak to comment on why the committee did not consider it. And in order for us to go to the vote, we must adopt this law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u43	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ivan. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u44	Dear Ostap Volodymyrovich, article 18 of the Housing Services Act applies the concept of economically sound expenditure. Therefore, according to this very norm of article 18 of the Law on the JRC, we are not. The committee didn't take you into account, because we couldn't find that concept economically affordable. Only this, but I don't think the essence of the bill as such of this amendment really, I agree with you, does it? So please support this bill in the second reading and support it as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u45	Thank you. So Mr. Ostap does not insist on voting. This concludes our discussion. All the revisions have been discussed. And let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, a huge committee work was carried out. I'm asking you to join all the national deputies in the hall right now, take up jobs. He's still asking for Deputy Prime Minister Hennaday Zubko 1 minute. I'm asking you one minute, in one minute, we're moving on to a decision. Please, Mr. Hennaday.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u46	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I would like once again to support the Crimean Tatar people so that their rights are protected. And Ukraine is making a great deal of efforts today to ensure that aggression and, as it were, the attack on the Crimean Tatar people does not take place. But I would like to point out that right now we've been looking at a very serious bill that allows, first of all, to remove the environmental threat that relates to drinking water and water supply. If this law is not upheld today, they will virtually not be able to enter into force. This means that the sewers will go uncontrollably into the rivers, reach virtually the nets. And what cannot be regulated by this law cannot be regulated by local self - government. I would like to point out that this law grants the right to local self-government, not to water canals, but to local self-government to make decisions, control and identify those responsible for those who do not adhere to these rules and do not hold the opportunity to provide quality water for people. And this is a health issue that is related to the future. And that's why I'd like them to settle down now. I see there aren't many deputies now, because they're in the West. But it is very important to concentrate and support this bill. He is in the second reading. The committee worked very hard to identify and take into account all the comments made by the national deputies. But today both the Association of Ukrainian Cities and the Association of Water Channeles, and all who are concerned with practically drinking water and clean water, and the quality of this water, are supported by the bill. Please concentrate again and support this bill in the second reading. Because, without the rules set out in this law, it is not possible to prepare quality water that is questionable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u47	Thank you. So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. We vote right, wisely. So you have to go to the workplace. Focus, focus. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Drinking Water and Drinking Water (for the Improvement of Certain Provisions) (No. 4582) in the second reading and in general. Environmental law. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, please, every voice matters. 4582 in the second reading and in general we vote, we support, colleagues! Environmental issues should unite us, and I look forward to a positive solution. Please vote. Vote. [[16:35:14]] For 226 The law is passed. Decision taken. Colleagues, I'm just asking you to stay put. We have very little right to ask the following questions. I'm asking you to stay in the room. The next law is the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to stabilize the activities of the Black Mornaphtogaz State Shareholder Society in connection with the temporary occupation of Ukraine. This is also a second reading, but there are only a few amendments. So I'm asking you to stay in the hall. I'm asking you not to leave the hall. And I invite you to the report of the deputy chairman of the Committee on Fuel and Energy in Belkov Olga Valentinovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u48	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, your attention is drawn to the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the stabilization of the activities of the National Association of Shareholders of Blackmorenephtogaz in connection with the temporary occupation of Ukraine (registration No. 5370). I would like to remind myself that last time all the factions, without exception, supported this bill. And we only had one question about the duration of these special conditions that we're proposing for Black Mornaphtogas. In fact, we are proposing the creation of conditions for the restoration of the productive activity of the society that is now suspended as a result of the occupation of Ukraine, the return of control over lost assets and the financial stability of society. In all, only four revisions were made. Two proposals from the National Deputies Group of Bilkovi, Chizmar, Lopushanski regarding the replacement of the term "by 1 January 19" for the term "before the full restoration of the constitutional system of Ukraine in the temporarily occupied territory" were taken into account. There were no other licenses. Two suggestions from the national deputy Rybkin regarding the replacement of the term are also taken into account in an editorial way. At its meeting on April 5, 17, the Committee on Fuel and Energy has decided to recommend the adoption of this law in a second reading and in general. Taking this opportunity, colleagues, I'd like to inform you what's going on with this huge business today. The Black Mornaftegas of March 18, this year, he regained control of the Firing Gas Field. We've managed to stop the company's inconvenient joint activity of PRAT Plast. However, under conditions that have been constantly arrested by creditors, it is not possible to make the costs associated with the exploitation of the stock. So far, the Kabmin has placed on the Black Mornaphtogaz, an obligation of the Kabmin Order of 22.03 from the uninterrupted supply of gas directly to the population. In fact, however, they do not have the resources to carry out their responsibilities. In April of this year, unfortunately, Dergeonandra was forced to suspend specializations for the use of nadrama in Odessa and Storm's gas fields precisely for the reasons that we want to correct today. These special permits are the evidence base in international courts against the Russian Federation. I am very much asking today to support our nation's efforts to preserve these assets behind Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'm ready to go over all the rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u49	Thank you, but there's actually no deviations here. And so, colleagues, we're actually going straight to making a decision. I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall, and there are actually no disbarred rights in this law. Please invite the MPs into the hall, ask the factions to mobilize as much as possible. Is it? Yeah? I'm going to put it, I'm just saying, it's going to be very short. Now I will give the word to those who have been rejected. But I can't see your right hand. 4th Amendment, right? For confirmation, right? To whom do we give the first? Yuri Lewchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u50	Thank you. A very correct bill, in which I think something has gone wrong, is not exactly the right idea for the continuation of a timely appropriate moratorium. Look, well, logically, now that the company is suffering, a hundred percent logically. Logically the following year, perhaps even logically in 2020. And why would that be logical in 2025, for example, incomprehensible. So there's actually a mechanism that will then be able to rewrote to this enterprise completely different assets and use the moratorium for personal wealth itself. So given this, I'm asking you to ask for confirmation, here's just these four revisions, and they apply, in fact, to this question. Please place the first, second, third, fourth amendment, please. And once again, it's an exclusive question of what they want to replace the word "before 2019" with "untimely," and it's completely not logical. Yes, it's written for the Crimea's invasion, but as the current working power works, I doubt that the Crimea's invasion will happen very quickly. So I ask you to leave the first reading as it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u51	Please, Mrs. Ola, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Supreme Council is probably the wisest collegiate body. Last time, I stood before you and, as the author of this bill, I proposed that the term "by 1 January 2019" be defined. It was my esteemed colleagues who offered a version that is now being proposed if you took the transcript and picked it up. When we bowed our heads to the wisdom of our colleagues, we agreed, we even tried to vote in favour of the bill as a whole at the time. I partly agree with you that the accuracy of the term is probably more correct, from a legal point of view. But if you insist, please, whether it's in the form of BlackMornaftogazu that their licenses are needed today, not our terms, but our licenses, so that we can prove in the courts that these licenses are working for Ukraine today. We're going to accept the version that the Supreme Council will support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u53	Mr. Yuri, I'll put them all up. Come on, maybe we do. So let's, let's maybe do this, colleagues, so that we can understand what perspective, let's say, and then I'll set up your revisions. Please, Sergey Soboljev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u54	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this is really a key issue. What is the situation? If we are convinced that on January 1, 2019, the Crimea and all the territories, the genealogies that the Russian Federation has captured (and these are genealogies and gas, and the oil that belongs to Ukraine, but they are de facto occupied by the Russian Federation), then this amendment works, and there are no questions. I think the new date that is defined is more valid. Because otherwise we're going to have to go back to that date every time, and don't let God, they won't continue this term and the businesses, they're going to go bankrupt, we're going to lose virtually all of that property that was illegally seized by the Russian Federation and in Crimea territory, and in the form of ancestry that's in the Kerchen Strait, the Odessa Region and other areas. So I'm going to ask you to leave that paper that the committee supported, and it's going to be correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u55	Thank you. Please, Vojtice, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u56	We have no doubt to support one of the key companies in the field, the state company BlackMornaftogaz. But we need to remember that this is a host subject who has in principle the imagination, guidance, when and under what conditions they can return to their position when they can, in fact, serve their debts, conduct their operations in an absolutely calm manner. And to do that, we have to look at their assumptions, their calculations, their business plan, and then we have to make decisions about the terms. I believe that on January 1, 2019 is a sufficient deadline for an enterprise to come to us and report when they consider it necessary to continue the bill further. So I propose to go back to the original edition, to vote it out as it was before the first reading, by 1 January 2019, in order for this law to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u57	Thank you. Colleagues, you know, there's a simple thing here, in this discussion, we're just going to split up into two camps and we're not going to take the law at all. I don't know how to deal with it. I'm proposing as one option to place rating one and the other proposals. Perhaps Mrs. Ola will give us a compromise position so that we can unite the hall. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u58	Dear Mr. Head, in fact, we have only two options, which are likely to have BlackMornaftogaz – this is the adoption of the law or with the date of January 1, 2019, two years, that is at least enough for us to have all the court hearings; the second part is the adoption of the committee's formulation. There is a version that is unacceptable today. I want all of these. All the colleagues in the room understood that. We cannot leave the hall without making a positive decision. So please, let's conduct the rating vote. Which version is going to take the top, and that's where I'm going to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u59	Let's do it this way: we're going to run a rating vote to make sure there's an understanding. I understand that all interested in the law being passed. And date is the only difference that is in this law. Colleagues, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, I'm on it. We have two positions: one – to have the law in force by January 1, 2019, the other – to form a committee for the depopulation of the Crimea. Now I'm going to put two of those positions on the rating vote just to see which of them has a chance to go through. Colleagues, please make your decision. There will now be two votes. Please prepare, please take up your jobs. The first position is for the law to act towards the depopulation of Crimea, as indicated in the Committee’s second reading edition. Whoever supports this position, please vote. This is a rating vote. Vote please, colleagues. Colleagues, please take part in the vote. [[16:47:30.]] For a hundred and The second position is to operate until January 1, 2019. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. The rating vote. Vote. [[16:47:57]] For 177 The second position took more votes. And, colleagues, I'm not even going to bet on confirmation, can I just say it out loud? Olya Belkova? We should probably put all four of them in. Yeah? Let's put it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u60	Well, we're actually going back to the first reading version.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u61	Colleagues, I'm betting on four amendments. So I'm betting on confirmation of 1 amendment. Whoever supports the idea of confirming the 1st amendment, please vote. [[16:48:47]] For-144 I bet. 144, no decision taken. I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment No. 2 of the bill. I'll bet the 3rd amendment on confirmation, amendment number 3. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:49:19]] For-147 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, and now I put the law in general. I'm asking everyone to get ready. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, to enter the hall. Colleagues, please support. We're in a position that has the most support in the room. I'm asking my fellow national MPs. Gennady, Hennaday! Each voice has the same weight as the previous bill. Please take up jobs, colleagues. Please come into the hall, we're moving to making a decision. Please come in, we're busy. Let's go to the vote. Olya, explain. So we're voting, colleagues, right? I'll put it to a vote. I'm voting on the draft Amendment Act. All right, colleagues, they're demanding another 3rd and 4th to do the same. All right, one second. I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment 3. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. Please. Please vote. This is to be legal cleanness and to be technically able to get to the right position. [[16:51:39]] For-170. The decision is not taken. And I'm betting on confirmation of amendment number four. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. Please be supportive. The committee supported her. Please vote. [[16:52:02]] For 155 The decision is not taken. And we can go to voting on the law as a whole. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the stabilization of the activities of the Black Mornaftegas State Shareholder Society in connection with the temporary occupation of Ukraine (No. 5370) at the request of a second-reading committee and in general. Please vote. Please support 5,370 in second reading and in general. Please be supportive. There was a great deal of work carried out by the committee. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:53:04]] For 206 I'll be back. Please simply conduct consultations. Fellows, come into the hall, I'll put you on the way back. Please come into the hall. Please, one minute, Olya Belkova. And please come into the hall and take your seats. Don't leave the hall! On the contrary, come into the hall, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u62	Dear colleagues! I especially address those who have not voted this time. BlackMornaftegaz is a Ukrainian state-owned enterprise. There are factions in the hall today that in the last cadence were very boastful of the acquisitions and the installations that were then able to buy BlackMornaftogas. Today, these deposits and installations are under enemy control. This is the only way for us to save the opportunity for Ukraine to defend Ukrainian interests. Oleg Valeriyovich, I know you care about the fate of the Ukrainian oil and gas industry. I ask you to focus on this bill. And I guarantee you that we are protecting Ukrainian interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u63	Colleagues, can we vote? Why don't you come to the hall? As soon as two people come out of the hall, invite people into the hall. Please have a name. One minute, Easy, and we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u64	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction supports the development of a domestic oil and gas complex. And we're here to save Naftogaz. But let's remember the story when Naftogaz bought the so-called Boyko Towers in the Baltic bogeys. They paid $500 million, which they stole and for which no one is responsible today. Let's think about how the gas-split state networks that are built for the money of the Ukrainians are now actually stolen by Firtash, Ljovcken, Boyk and the company. And so the Radical Party faction demands that the government, Prime Minister Groysman's immediate decision to return gas distribution networks to the state. And we're asking the Attorney General to submit to the Supreme Council a request to bring Boyko's responsibility for stealing half a billion dollars from the Ukrainians. Stop covering this gang that's robbing Ukrainians!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u65	Colleagues, I'm making a proposal, I'm proposing to go back to the draft Law 5370. Please vote, please support the return to Law 5370. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Vote. [[16:56:58]] For 237 We're back. And I'm voting on Bill 5370 in second reading and in general. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:57:24]] For 233 Decision taken. The law is passed. Colleagues, let's move on to the next issues of the agenda. Wait a second. Next draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Internal Service Statute for the Armed Forces of Ukraine, security and defence (3728). And I invite you to report to the head of the National Security Committee, the National Security Committee and the defence of Deputy Winnick. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u66	Dear colleagues! It's a non-discussive project, it doesn't take much time to waste on it. We have an Internal Service Statute for the Armed Forces of Ukraine, article 260, which says that if the trauma is sustained, there is appropriate help, medical assistance, on the basis of which soldiers can now apply to the appropriate medical institution and, above all, to receive social benefits provided by valid legislation. So in this project, the word "if necessary" is suggested to make it mandatory to provide medical services to the military area where the wounded fighter is located, such help. This will significantly simplify the legal mechanism for receiving both its own treatment and the corresponding social benefits provided for in the event of injury. It's a second reading. Seven proposals were made before the bill. They're almost all accounted for. So 6 is taken into account completely, one is taken into account editorially. The committee proposes that it be adopted in such an editorial manner in the second reading and in general with technical and legal rights. So let's go to the vote. The report was completed. It's no big deal. Consolidate, vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u67	Colleague, there's no law of law. The law was upheld for all. I beg you, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm asking you to come into the hall. Well, colleagues, you don't feel how humiliating it is to call it that every time? Well, why do that, colleagues? I'm trying to be polite. Please enter the hall, take your seats. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the hall. It's a matter of security and defense, where we have to act together and work together. We're moving on to making a decision. Colleagues in a government bed, colleagues in a government bed, I ask you to take up jobs. Gennady, I'll turn around again. Decision-making, decision-making. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Internal Service Statute of the Armed Forces of Ukraine (for documenting injuries (calculation, injury, injury) to ATO participants) (No. 3728). At the conclusion of the committee, it is proposed that we vote in the second reading and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:01:21]] For the 220. I'll be back. Please take your seats, come into the hall. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs. Every voice on the scale. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 3728, which deals with documenting injuries (calculation, injury, injury) of ATO participants. I ask everyone to vote. Please come into the hall, not leave the hall. And please support the return to draft Law 3728. Please vote and please support. Please vote. [[17:02:22]] For 229 We're back. And now, attention, I'm voting again on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On the Statute of the Internal Service of the Armed Forces of Ukraine" (as regards documenting injury, disability, injury, injury to ATO participants) (3728) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Please vote, please support. Careful, colleagues. [[17:03:04]] For 234 Decision taken. The law is passed. Colleagues, we all have very few laws, so once again I call for concentration and active work. Next: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (for strengthening the guarantee of compliance with Ukrainian legislation) (No. 2985). I invite you to report to the National Security and Defence Committee of Vinick. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u68	Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank you for supporting the previous project, which is very important. This bill is also equally important, it is essentially something different, its purpose is to strengthen, in fact, the guarantee of compliance with Ukrainian legislation on military duty and military service for special period mobilization, regarding the call for term service. The point is that the Law on Military Duty and Military Service of Ukraine is article 38, which, in the view of the drafters of the bill, does not very clearly regulate the powers and responsibilities of local authorities, managers of enterprises, institutions and organizations, educational institutions on their actions if it is necessary to send messages to the military commissioners on the need to inform their subordinates, which is necessary to reach the congregations at the military commission or on call. Therefore, it is suggested that the matter be settled in such a way as to impose an obligation on business leaders, local authorities, institutions, organizations, to ensure timely arrival within seven days of the call, to report to the district, the city’s military authorities on the admission to work of the military. Thus, in fact, to regulate the rules of effective legislation on military duty and military service to the Constitution of Ukraine, article 17, which clearly states that the protection of Ukraine’s sovereignty, territorial integrity, is a matter of concern for all the Ukrainian people, organizations, and all state bodies. In fact, there is no need to be baptized here if a message is to be delivered or if a military officer is to arrive at the military commission. Actually, this bill went through first reading, now second reading. The bill had four proposals. One is completely counted, one is partially counted, two is rejected. The Ministry of Defence supports this bill. The Committee therefore proposes to the Supreme Council to decide whether to vote, proposes to support this bill in the second reading and as a law in general with technical and legal rights. If there is a desire, let's go after the amendments, two of them rejected. Mr. Chairman, I suggest you make an amendment to go now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u69	Thank you. We're gonna go like this after all the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u70	Two changes of everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u71	So 2 of the amendment is rejected. National MP Yvchenko does not insist. And the 4th, National Deputy Shepherd. Turn on the microphone, please, Mr. Taras. This is the only amendment, so I ask everyone to come into the hall, and in two minutes there will be a vote. Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u72	In this case, the bill translates the actual responsibility of the military to the local authorities, to the heads of the labour force, and to the heads of the colleges to ensure the delivery of military-related personnel to the military. That is, the functions that the police would perform today in the event that a military officer does not come to the military, regarding his search, will now be carried out by the authorities of local self - government. In the absence of execution, they will then bear criminal responsibility, including criminal responsibility. Actually, with my right, I was just about to make it clear that a person should be personally responsible. If she fails to fulfil her constitutional obligation to protect her homeland. Unfortunately, this amendment has not been taken into account, and so this law simply oversteps the responsibility of the military to local self - government, so we will not be able to.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u73	30 seconds, Mr. Taras, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u74	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u75	We're done, aren't we? Please. Please, will you comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u76	Yes, I'll comment. You know, I would just like to quote the novel proposed before the introduction of article 38 of the Ukrainian Military and Military Obligation Act. That no matter where they are in Ukraine, there is an obligation in their administrative and territorial units of military commissions. the requirement for military commissioners to notify, stress, of conscripts who are military bound to challenge them to military commissioners, to ensure timely arrival at the time of the call. You have to understand that a person works, for example, at work, has a proper schedule, has a regular schedule. In this case, it means that you have to let a person go so that he can come, and you don't have to take a walk or anything. If people work in a local self - government body, they will certainly have to be provided for the arrival of the army. Suggest your editor if you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u77	Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u78	You simply offer to report it and all, they are still obliged to report it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u79	Voting, right? So let's go to the vote, and I'll put the fourth amendment to the vote. Okay, I didn't finish, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u80	You know, I'd like to go back to the Constitution of Ukraine, to our Basic Law. You don't have to translate responsibility for a special period of time, from one to the other, into the National Police, into military commissions, and say that the local government or the village head here is useless. It is his business because the issue of protecting Ukraine's territorial integrity for a special period is, in fact, during the war, it's a matter for the entire Ukrainian people, regardless of their position. You don't have to speculate on that. If necessary, let him take his car and pick it up. There's nothing to worry about. We have to provide, okay, let them contribute – this is a matter for the entire Ukrainian people. If.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u81	So let's go to the vote. And I'm voting on amendment 4 of the People's Shepherd's Chamber. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Vote. [[17:09:56]] For 155 The decision is not taken. Thus, the discussion is concluded. Let us move on to the adoption of the law as a whole. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Let's move on to making a decision. Everyone, please take your seats. So, colleagues, you see, we just have a voice. And I'd like to ask the committee. Mr. Winnick. Mr. Winnick! Without this amendment, we will lose the voices of two factions. Maybe you'll make a compromise because you're just going to have to reject the law. Please, one minute, and please come in. Now we're going to find some compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u82	Well, look, dear colleagues, we really won't count enough votes if we don't support the amendment of colleague Taras Shepherd. Its purpose is to ensure that the arrival is ensured — not to rely on such an obligation, but to rely on the responsibility of informing, conveying messages, and so forth. Well, at least let's vote. And what happens next is, if the Minobrons insist, let the next bill be introduced, because it's the second reading. We're going to lose even this. During a special period, we cannot afford such freedom during wartime.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u83	Repeat for the stenograms you ask for. position.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u84	I propose that Taras Shepherd number four, which is now rejected, be counted. Then vote on the law as a whole. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u85	Thank you. Colleagues, I will put to the vote in this way: the law as a whole is amended. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, no. Colleagues, we have two ways. One way is to return to repair and confirmation. The second way is to put the shepherd in general with the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u86	I'll read the amendment under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u87	Oh, let's go under the transcript and I'll say under. With the position that the representative of the committee has spoken under the transcript, this will be the best. Please read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u88	And I'm going to ask you for a transcript that we're going to now, and then we're going to vote as a second-reading bill, and in general, article 38 to put it in such an editorial. Responsibilities of the local authorities of enterprises, institutions, and organizations, their officials, with regard to the implementation of military accounting rules. First. Executive bodies of rural, rural, urban councils, business leaders, institutions and organizations, including educational institutions, regardless of their subordination and forms of property, are obliged to notify military commissioners of their call to military commissions. The other one. Military officers and conscripts are required to arrive at the time of the call to the military commissioners. Well, actually, this is the finished lineup, we have, by the way, a predicted criminal responsibility, including for non-convention, let it be so, maybe it's a more effective way. I hope the Ministry of Defense will be able to provide a better suit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u89	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm going to put to the vote in this wording of the amendments. with the addition that Vinnik Ivan Juryovich made under the transcript, in general. Do you copy, colleagues? You're in, right? Let's go to the vote. Colleagues, we're moving to a vote. And now we're going to count every vote. Please take up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (for strengthening the guarantee of compliance with Ukrainian legislation) (number 2985) with the addition that he made to the transcript from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's national deputy Vinnik Ivan Juriovich. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Voting, voting. Please vote with the amendment "appropriate organs" right? – "appropriate organs", with technical legal remedies. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. It's a compromise position. I ask you to vote. Vote. It's a technical tool. [[17:15:06]] For 205 Colleagues, I'll be back in a minute. I don't understand what happened. Please explain, Sold. And, colleagues, stay put. Please, sell.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u90	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, as we understand it, took into account the correction of the Shepherd during the discussion. So, please, if we vote completely, as our colleague in the rostrum reads, the text of the Shepherd's amendment, we'll support that. You just sounded different. With the correction of the Shepherd you can vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u91	Mrs. Oksana, you don't understand. You seem to have been inconsiderate. I read it from Winnick John's rostrum, and I said, "With the correction that Winnick John made under the transcript from the Supreme Council's rostrum." I mean, he sounded it. For us to return to the amendment, we did not confirm it so that we would do so by one vote. Understand? Does the author agree? It's all right. It's okay! Colleagues, therefore, all understood the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, what difference does it make? Well, I'm telling you. Excuse me? Okay, with the Shepherd's amendment, I'll make that sound, okay. Please return to 2985. Please support the return to 2985. I'll sound as you say. Please support the return to 2985. Please vote. [[17:16:46]] For 215 Colleagues, or maybe just consult, colleagues? Well. Please. No, I see there's not a part of the MP vote. I don't understand why. Is there any reason, or should we make any changes? Colleagues, I ask once again and perhaps the committee will conduct the work. Mr. Ivan! So once again, I'm going to put the proposal back on the table, and I'm going to put it in the paper, as you say, as you suggest. I ask to vote in favour of the return to 2985, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service. Please support and vote back to 2985. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. It's a comeback. Return! [[17:17:56]] For 217 We have two ways: either we reject or just explain your position. I'd see who doesn't vote. Why? Please, Irina Heratschenko. Please, one minute. Explain the logic. We need some compromise, we'll find compromise. Please, Irina Heratschenko, one minute. Irina Heratchenko. Oh, I'm sorry. Lucenko. Irina Lucenko. I'm sorry, I'm already wrapped up. Please, Irina Lucenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u92	Please pass the word to Vitalia Gudzenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u93	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u94	Vitaly Goodenko. 92 constituency. You know what the question is. The question is that I know a very covert case in the Bilocerk district when my mother, the head of the village council, handed her message to my son, and he's in prison now, sorry, inexplicably for what. That's the first one. Other heads of village councils become enemies in their village for carrying their travels. Let's do it again. Messages, yes. Let the author read again who should be wearing those messages, and where we have the military commissioner, where the police are. Have the police and the military commissioner deliver these travels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u95	Colleagues! But the papers are in the materials. Please read again, one more minute, correction. Well, she's in the papers, my friends. Please let the editing author read it in order to consolidate the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, we now have an active rule that in the settlements where there are no military commissioners, village heads, business leaders, institutions, managers of the U.S. at the request of the commissioners, these messages should be delivered and delivered. This is what the law says is valid. The author of the amendment. The drafter of the bill that we had. Listen carefully, it has been amended to extend this rule to all inhabited areas. That is, every city head, every business manager, every U.S. rector was obliged not only to report them, but also to deliver them personally to the military. We think that's unacceptable. The maximum that local self-government authorities, heads of VUZs and teams can do is to inform them when an army unit says, "You have such an employee, keep him informed about the call," no problem. But further, a military officer must be personally accountable to the law. If he avoids it, there are internal organs for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u97	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u98	In order to do so, there are internal organs that are obliged to search for him. The criminal justice system is still in place. So the question here is, in this case, information goes. So here, really, we need the help of both the team leaders and the local self-governance authorities, not their responsibility for not delivering or missing such a suitor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u99	Colleagues, do you understand the position, ready to vote? We can, right? All right, please take your seats. It's like all the moments we've talked about, all the moments we've taken into account. Sergei, what is it? Let's vote, colleagues. I'm putting the vote back to 2985. Please vote for the return of 2985. Please vote, please support. [[17:22:06]] For 225 I'll bet again. Back to 2985. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Well, don't leave the hall. What's the point of voting, my friends? Well, it's a matter of security and defense! Well, there's a lot to talk about protecting the army on the air. And when you just have to be in the hall, vote, you're out! Please vote for the return of 2985. Please be supportive. [[17:22:44]] For 234 We're back. And now I'm going to write it the way I said it would. You'll fix me if something's wrong. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (on strengthening the guarantee of compliance with Ukrainian legislation) (2985), including Law No. 4 of the People's Chamber of the Shepherd. Is that what I called it? Is that what you're saying? Please vote in second reading and in general. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:23:34]] For 237 The law is passed. It was a difficult discussion. We need to work on these things on the committee. Colleagues, the next law will be no less important. That's why I'm asking everyone to stay. But there is now a request for a break from two groups who are willing to switch to the speech, even promising a short speech. I invite you to say Andrew Shippeck. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u100	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, I must inform you that during the vote under the Bill (5534) the draft Law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine has taken place by non-personal vote and violation of article 48 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I got a call from my colleagues at the Rebirth Party, they weren't in the hall, their cards worked. They demand that you, Mr. Head, put to the vote a bill (5534) amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. I think you'll see the facts of the confirmation on "Ukrainian Truth." People weren't in the hall, and the cards were working.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u101	So let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine (for the creation of printed media by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and military and civil administrations at the time of the ATO) (No.5008). It's also a second reading, the right hand is not much. And I invite the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy of Sumar Victoria Petrovna to report. But, just a second, I want to remind you, the deputies are supposed to be in the hall at work. When they're not in the hall, the cards should be with them. This is the personal responsibility of each national MP. Please, Victoria Petrovna Sumar, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u102	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, the essence of the law is extremely simple. We've conducted a state-owned print press with you, but since there's an anti-terrorist operation in Ukraine, in fact we're dealing with military action, today it's necessary that the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine has its own newspaper, which is made especially for ATO soldiers, for soldiers who are on the front line today. And it can't just be a newsletter that reports on the Ministry of Defense's direct decision, as it is in our Press Dismantling Act, because it has to be a full-blown printed edition that provides information about the soldiers, about the heroes of Ukraine, and shed light on the topics in which it's interested. In the committee, we did quite an active job and analyzed all those media outlets printed by the authorities, particularly the power structures. And if we've seen serious abuses, for example, in such a publication as the Cordon Borders, where, forgive me, there's something printed on glossy paper about Pokémon's articles, the newspaper "Our Army" is indeed a full-blown, quality edition on which the Ministry of Defence journalists are working. The essence of this law is to leave this publication until the end of the anti-terror operation and also to issue military-civil administrations. Fifteen amendments have been made, and they can be considered briefly. Please support this bill in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u103	Thank you. Please be prepared for discussion by the right-wing authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move to the right. Please, first amendment, this is the national MP Rybchin insists. Please, Mr. Alexia's microphone. Please, Mr. Rybczyn's microphone. It's working, it's working. There's a problem with the microphone. Try again, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to turn on Mr. Dubyl's microphone, please. He'll be asking questions, Deputy Rybchin, because there's probably a problem with his credit card and the system problem, and the microphone doesn't work, please. Try it. I want to go to the secretariat, there's a problem with microphones. Now, they're checking the microphones in the hall. I'd like to speak to the secretariat. We're gonna break the rules a little bit, but please, the people's deputy Rybchin asks a question from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u105	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. We apologize to the citizens of Ukraine for their technical inaccuracies. My law applies, as does a series of rights, because it excludes military civilian administrations from the law. I have a misunderstanding, and why do we need individual printed editions of VCA? I fully support our army's release of its printed media. Our soldiers are now in the Syrian zone, where unfortunately our television doesn't work or our media has no access. It's a separate question of how we should determine with our ministry what they're doing. Yet, really, our soldiers need these newspapers, and we support them. However, why should the military civilian administration do this, I have doubts that this is appropriate. On the contrary, these media need to be harnessed, people need to have confidence in the media of independent people, and they need confidence in the media that will never depend on their authority. And that's why we have this reform aimed at creating public television, public media. So the request to support the exclusion of "military civilians" or to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u106	Please comment to the head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u107	At the committee meeting, I personally voted in favour of this amendment, but the committee as a whole did not support it, because it's military civilian administrations, they're willing to cover it from their own budget. And it's not exactly a peaceful situation, and there's, frankly, a bad situation with commercial media, because it's not a commercial area, and private media, and nobody wants to publish those newspapers especially today, because it's not profitable. Accordingly, a decision has been made not to leave people at all without information in the form of a printed press. Please put to the vote and determine by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u108	Dear colleagues! So National Deputy Rybchin insists that the word "and civil administrations" be excluded from the law by the committee when the decision was taken, but the decision was rejected. So right now, we're putting this amendment to the court's judgment. Please identify yourself with regard to amendment No. 1 of the People's Deputy Rybchin. Voting, please. [[17:32:17]] For 131 Your amendment is not supported, Your Honor. The following amendment was also made by the national deputy Rybchin. Are you insisting? Please, the microphone. Again with the microphone at the People's Deputy Rybchin. Well, go out to the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u109	Well, in fact, we need to understand that 2-a, 3-and 4-correction are identical to the first amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u110	Again, we apologize for the technical difficulties. There's a couple of my rights that apply to BCA. Then I'll tell them not to waste any time. We have a social television channel working on Donetskin and Lugansk, a LOT TV channel working on Lugansk Region, a Do TeBe channel working on the Donetsk Region. They work well, they explain information well, they don't have any questions. There are many other publications that work. But I'm giving more attention to the VCA and the Ministry of Information, and I'm directing the committee because. does not create new ones, but to deal with the old ones. Because, for example, there's a newspaper called "Friendly Workers", which he worked for separatists during the occupation of the Friends, published a newspaper with a coat of arms called "DNR." I would work against those separatist mayors, and I wouldn't create these state media because people don't trust them. And they're going to trust independent media, and it's not a matter of commercial interest. That's where people live. People who eat these products live there. And when I come to Donetskina, to Lugansk, I always buy these publications to learn about what the community is living in, rather than supporting independent media, rather than producing public institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u111	Thank you. As explained by the head of the committee, the honourable colleagues, the amendment of the People's Deputy Number 2 and then number 3 and number 5, they are identical and apply to all exceptions to this rule on military and civilian administrations. I suggest that the room now be defined in relation to amendment number two, and then, that we no longer, Your Honorable colleague Rybchin, disorientate the colleagues the same way and you did not go out, from the rostrum do not represent an amendment, I will simply put them to the vote. Dear colleagues, therefore, the committee part was not opposed to this amendment by Mr. Rybchin, but by most votes it was rejected. I ask the hall to determine whether you support or not this amendment Mr. Rybkin Number 2.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u112	The committee rejected that decision, I remind you. But I support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u113	What's going on in us? Please vote Amendment 2. I ask the Secretariat to find out somehow what's going on with the Council system. [[17:35:17]] For a hundred and Now, please, we have 107 votes. This amendment is not supported. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine now about amendment 3 of People's Deputies Rybchin, which refers to an identical position, in paragraph 1 of the first sentence on "and civil-military administrations". Please make up your mind. [[17:35:58]] For a hundred and This amendment is not supported. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Alexei Rybchin takes away his subsequent amendments. This is amendment number 5, amendment number 9, saving room time, amendment number 11, amendment number 14. The amendments have been completed for this purpose. I ask you to return your respectable colleagues to the session room. I'm asking you to take up jobs now. We will now proceed to the vote. I'm asking the head of the profile committee to return to your workplace as well. And now we're going to the vote, colleagues. Please return to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u114	My colleagues, so we finished the discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. And I ask now Victoria Sumar, tell us the final, final position for which we will vote. And I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u115	So your honorary colleagues, the key task for us now is to save the National Army for the Ukrainian military at the time of the anti-terrorist operation. There are two suggestions, Mr. Head. Since the two factions have just stated that they are not willing to vote for the military-civil administrations, I propose to put the bill in the committee's drafting first, and then, if there is no positive decision, put to the vote taking into account the amendments of Rybchin. So, colleagues, maybe we'll do it the way we did it before -- ratings. So let's talk about how to be us, colleagues. Victoria, again. What should be put to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u116	Mr. Head, we can either do the ratings or try to put the committee in line. If I don't get enough votes, I'm going to ask the hall to support Alexia Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u117	Let me do two ratings. So, colleagues, let's do it the way we did it today. I'm asking you to take up jobs. I'll wait 30 seconds, get some jobs. So, colleagues, I would like to make a signal vote the first suggestion to adopt the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (5008) as drafted by the Committee. The rating vote. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:39:21]] For 155 I'll make the next offer. Who supports the idea that we can support Law 508 as amended by National Deputy Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u118	That means we're leaving.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u119	With the exception of military-civil administrations? Yeah, just the army. That's again the rating. Whoever supports this only applies to the army, please vote, please support. Please vote. [[17:40:08]] For-189 The second position gained more votes. Now Victoria is going to make the final statement. One second, please, Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u120	Dear colleagues, to me, to be honest, it's Thursday, the day of the vote. I'm asking you very much not to leave this room right now, because we need to make a positive decision. And I'm ashamed when my colleagues are walking out of the hall with their bags, if the soldiers are sitting in our trenches, forgive me, and they don't have anything to read. You'd be there for at least a few days, you'd be there for a few days when you'd have to hold the defense; and when you're sitting there all the time, paying attention to it. And we can't work properly by 6 p.m. today by pressing the buttons. Today, the ATO soldiers are asking us, "Make us a library, give us books, give us literature, give us quality papers." It's a fine newspaper that tells soldiers about military matters, about soldiers. We have no right to deprive them of such a newspaper right now. A very big request: Please come into the hall and press this button!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u121	I'm asking the people's deputies to come to the hall. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. And now I'm going to ask Victoria Sumar to give us a transcript of the amendment with which we're going to vote. So I'm asking you to turn on Victoria Sumar's microphone again. And I'm asking you to take your jobs so that you can tell me where we're going to vote. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u122	The proposal is to support a bill excluding the words "and the military and civil administrations." In this way this is about the amendments of the Rybkin deputy, which should be taken into account in the final edition. We leave only the publication of the Ukrainian Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u123	So, colleagues, let's go to the vote. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws (for the creation of printed media by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the military and civilian administrations at the time of the anti-terrorist operation) (No. 5008), which was edited by the head of the committee of Victoria Sumar of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in second reading and in general. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:43:08]] For 226 The law is passed. Welcome to the committee. Welcome to the authors. Colleagues, respectable colleagues, we have. Attention! Please remain seated. We have literally 15 minutes left. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft law amending article 201 of the Criminal Code on the criminalization of smuggling of dangerous substances, parts of firearms (No. 3254). And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Protective Activities of Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u124	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement at its meeting on March 22, this year, reviewed the draft Act amending article 201 of the Criminal Code on the criminalization of the smuggling of dangerous goods, parts of firearms (number 3254), adopted on the basis of February 23, 2017. I would like to remind you that the first draft of the Ukrainian law proposes to include dangerous substances and parts (parts!) in the list of smuggling items provided for in article 201 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Firearms, firearms. In preparing the bill, two proposals came to the committee for consideration in the second reading of the bill from the legal entities of the People’s Deputies, Guljeva and Yatzenka, who were processed and included in the comparative table. That's just two adjustments. Considered is the proposal of the people's deputy Yatzenka, who is excluded from the sanctions of part one of article 201 of the bill by the word “detainment of smuggling items” because the issue of special confiscation is regulated by article 96-1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The proposal of the Gulyava People’s Deputy is rejected by a concise formulation of a norm that complicates the understanding that will have a negative impact on the right to apply. There is a proposal to support the proposed project edition (3254-Deputy number) for adoption in second reading and in general as a law. Please make up your mind. Helpful. The Chief Legal Authority commented on the bill, stating that smuggling of parts of smooth weapons, such as mortars, grenade launchers, would not be covered by the crime envisaged by this article, since the bill deals only with the smuggling of firearms. Therefore, it is important to take into account the comments of the Chief Legal Authority and to include in the list of smuggling items provided for in article 201 of the Criminal Code, parts of firearms and weapons of mass destruction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u125	Colleagues, there's actually no right to this bill, but I know that there are discussions in this room about it, and I really don't want us to crash it. Let's just take a minute from the factions and exchange our thoughts, because this is an important bill. One amendment accepted, one walked, does not insist on the amendment. Now I'm asking the factions for a minute, an important bill so that we can find a compromise. Who among the factions wants to speak? So, "self-help," who? We won't find the votes now. Can you just slow down for one minute, please? You're arguing with B.P.P. Turn on the microphone. Microphone's already on, please. Colleagues, a cyberattack is being re-created. But maybe. How about from the rostrum then? Please, Mr. Sporish from the rostrum, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u126	I'm also sorry that the microphone doesn't work. There's probably something here that the microphones don't work. But at the same time, we should be with you today, really, this is an extremely important bill. We need to strengthen legislation in this bill in a variety of ways that are available. Because we're seeing beautifully that this law provides for convenient refinements to the definition of "smuggling." In particular, with regard to transportation, part of a variety of firearms is still possible to import illegal weapons in separate parts. It's like a designer, so I think that we really have to predict it in this bill and not let it happen and vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u127	Please, who's from Self-Help? Who's from Self-Help? Yes, please, Andrew Cosemiakin. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u128	Colleagues, we're on. We've consulted with our, let's say, legal community of parliament and there's a proposal under the transcript that we're going to present the changes as follows. So we leave out the "parts of the firearms, of the weapons," except for the words "dangerous substances" and the point. And so it's just going to remain, so it's going to be proposed to include in the list of smuggling items, provided for in article 201 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, parts of firearms, different weapons, dot, except for the words "dangerous substances." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u129	Is that the position taken? She's taking all the halls. Come on, colleagues, let's invite all our colleagues into the hall. I'm asking you to invite all the national deputies into the hall. An important vote. Please prepare for the vote, invite the deputies to the hall. We've made the formulation compromise, hopefully we'll come up with a positive solution. Colleagues, please. Can we vote? I am voting on the draft Act amending article 201 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the criminalization of the smuggling of dangerous substances, parts of firearms, as amended by a transcript of the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Law Protection Act, Cosmekin Andriy Anatoliyovich (No. 3254) on second reading and in general. Colleagues, every voice matters. Andrey Anatolyovich wants to make his point. It's okay, it's okay. Please vote. For the sake of legal accuracy and verifiability, I ask Andrija Anatoliyovich to be specified again under the transcript as to how his amendment sounds, and then we will proceed to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u130	I thank my colleagues at the Radical Party, the factions. In fact, they gave the correct indication. We have forgotten in the Sumatos and in the Suhatos that it is necessary to make changes to the name of this law. So it's suggested that we change the name. "To amend article 201 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the criminalization of the smuggling of parts of firearms," excluding the words "dangerous substances". Period. That's right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m1.u131	Everybody gets in, right? Please take your seats. And I put to the vote the draft Law amending article 201 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the criminalization of the smuggling of parts of firearms, with an amendment that was made under the transcript from the rostrum of Cosemäkin Andriy Anatoliyovich (number 3254) in the second reading and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:53:32]] For 207 We're not all there, colleagues! Please come into the hall, we'll wait 30 seconds. I'm asking you to come to the MPs' room. I'm asking you to show us how the factions vote. Please come into the hall, don't go out, colleagues. Peter Poshenko's Block – 87, People's Front – 52, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 22, Radical Party – 11, Fatherland – 12, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth Party – 3. I'm asking you to come to the hall. I understand there is no political debate. There is only a question of discipline. Invite the deputies to the hall. Please, colleagues, invite the deputies to the hall. I'm giving you 30 seconds so the MPs can come. Please prepare for the vote. Please come in, colleagues. And I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Act amending article 201 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the criminalization of the smuggling of parts of firearms (3254). Colleagues, please support. Colleagues, please support and vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:55:19]] For 215 Alana, don't go, please. Come on, I'll do it again. At least when I talk about voting, MPs are moving away from the seats, demonstratively simple. I ask you to take part in the vote. Don't leave the hall, please. I'll put it to the vote again. If there are no votes, the bill will be rejected. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal. Draft Act amending article 201 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the criminalization of smuggling, parts of firearms, 3254, please vote in favour. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote for the return. [[17:56:30.]] For 221 Well, colleagues, five votes! Come in, sit down, come in, please. Mr. Andrew, vote, please. Work in that corner. Colleagues, please come into the hall! Colleagues, mobilize each and every one of you. These are important things. Colleagues, please return to 3254 for criminalizing smuggling. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please support the return to 3254. Well, I see, well, he's standing. What can I say? Please take the job! Please be supportive. Please vote. Please vote. Vote, fellows! Every voice. Please vote for the return. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:57:38]] For 235 And I'm putting a bill amending article 201 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the criminalization of the smuggling of parts of firearms (No. 3254), as amended by the transcript of Cosemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich on second reading and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:58:18]] For 226 The law is passed. It was hard. It was difficult. But we were able to pass another law. It was a difficult day, fellow believers, but at the same time it was a very effective day, we adopted many laws that long awaited consideration. The time allocated for the plenary meeting is exhausted. And I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock, we'll continue our work. I'd like everyone to arrive tomorrow at 10 a.m. to continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. Good-bye.
