ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? I'd like you to sign up. [[10:01:19]] 308 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleagues: Paul Kishkar, welcome to Mr. Paul, Yuri Petrovich Savichuk, welcome to Mr. Yuri, and to Rephat Chubarov, welcome Mr. Chubarov with his birthday. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Welcome, Mr. Rephat, from the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, according to the Rules, we have an hour of questions to the government. It is proposed that the budget be presented at this hour. And, colleagues, here's Daniluku, Minister of Finance, 10 minutes. 5 minutes is the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vasil Vasilovich Omelchenka. And increase time for questions, 40 minutes for questions. So that people's deputies can ask more questions. Is there a deal? No objections? Then less talk, more questions. Then, colleagues, we work within the same hour, but we increase the number of questions to the government. There's a Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in front of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman. Hello. [[Applause]] And I invite you to speak with the finance minister of Ukraine, Alexander Alexandrovich Daniluk. Please. Okay. Ask the Minister of Finance for 15 minutes. I don't think we'll mind if it's 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u2	Hello, everyone! Dear national MPs, dearly present, for the second year in a row, we are submitting a draft state budget to the government and parliament in a timely fashion. It's not easy, because not only did we want to follow all the legal terms, but we also wanted to develop a quality, effective and as realistic document as possible, which will guide the development of Ukraine. But meeting the terms is our principle of position, because the timely budgeting for 2018 adds transparency to the budgetary process and increased confidence and responsibility to the participants for the quality of the accepted document. This gives everyone enough time to get to know the document, first of all to you, the honourable national MPs. Discussions and active discussions have already begun both in committees and in the expert environment. And that's very important. We look forward to a constructive dialogue with members of Parliament. Today I want to present to you the key parameters of the 2018 budget, as well as the philosophy that was put in this important document for the country. This year we have taken another important step in the path of a transparent, predictable and efficient budgetary process. For the first time in the history of budgeting, we have started a real implementation of medium-term budget planning, and its key element has been the Budget Resolution for 3 years, which was approved this summer. This is a revolutionary step, since the transition from a one-year to a three-year perspective of budget planning is a systemic change in budgetary policy that ensures a strategic approach to prioritisation and an effective allocation of resources. This is a consistent and predictable fiscal policy that will ensure financial stability. This is the predictability and efficiency of public expenditure aimed at improving the quality of public services. This is the strengthening of budgetary discipline and the establishment of clear rules of work that will be followed by all participants in the budgetary process for the common outcome of the country's development. This is also the control and effective management of government debt. It is important that the medium - term budgeting practice will become mandatory from the following year onward. Therefore, it is logical and natural that the draft budget for 2018 is based on the midterm budget resolution. For the second year in a row, it's not just an accounting asset, it's a development and growth tool that is funding all major reforms and investing in future generations. This budget is realistic, balanced, transparent, forward-looking and one that has clear priorities and allows for the efficient use of budgetary resources. Now let's look at the state of the Ukrainian economy. We were able to get back to economic growth. According to our projections, total GDP growth in the next three years is increasing by more than 11 percent. Inflation is also declining to 5 percent. This is the result of the serious structural reforms we have undertaken over the last three years, despite the difficult external conditions. Another important result of these reforms has been our exit to the external markets of capital. This means that investors trust Ukraine and are willing to invest. The operation carried out by Minfin earlier this week allowed for the first time since 2010, to release Eurobonds, to put $3 billion into 15 years. 15 years is a record term in the history of Ukraine and it is a sign of investor confidence. This is the result of our joint efforts, and I am grateful to all who have joined in this process. The benefits of this step will be not only to the state but also to the private business, which will now be able to make it easier and cheaper to engage external funding for its development. At the same time, despite the positive dynamics, we can't afford to stop at what we've achieved, we're not in a situation where we stop, in today's globalized world we need to keep moving forward so that we don't lose our position in hard competition. The financial and economic situation in the country remains rather fragile. Therefore, our duty to continue making changes to strengthen the country’s economy, to achieve its final goals, since many of our initiatives have not yet been fully implemented, and most importantly, to improve the lives of our citizens, for people have not yet experienced positive changes. That is why we continue to finance the priorities set by the government last year. A year ago, we basically gave up misappropriation of budget for hundreds of programs when none of them received adequate funding, did not implement or benefit people and the economy. Tax payers’ money should be used effectively and responsibly. So we've identified specific areas that have received priority attention and funding. This is medicine, education, the social sphere, defense, support for farmers, roads, decentralization, and energy efficiency. I'm just going to stop at each one of the priorities. Defense and security. The cost of defence and security in the draft budget is determined by taking into account the strategic document requirements of 5 percent of GDP, representing some 165 billion dollars. I would like to stress that, regardless of the economic situation in the country and the situation in the east, financing the construction of the Ukrainian army is a top priority for the government. Not only is the proper level of funding important here, but it is the reform of an army capable of protecting territorial integrity, ensuring the security of citizens, and saving the lives of both civilians and military, whose lives are priceless. Diplomacy. The role of diplomacy becomes impeccable in the hybrid form of aggression and in the task of reorienting our economy to new markets. So for the next year, we're spending almost 4.5 billion dollars to raise the interests of Ukrainian citizens abroad. Costs will go towards achieving Euro-integration and Euro-Atlantic courses, raising Ukraine's positive image, promoting Ukraine's national interests in the world, and protecting Ukrainian citizens' interests and rights abroad. Social protection. The draft budget provides 123 billion dollars for social protection and subsidies, helping those who really need it. These expenses will be directed, inter alia, to address subsidies, to the payment of utilities. That's about 55 billion dollars. Pension reform. The indicators of the State Budget project for the following year are designed to take into account the implementation of the pension reform that we urge you to accept in the near future. The amount of allocations to the Pension Fund was saved as of 2017 -- 141 billion dollars. Salary and subsistence minimum. The minimum of living in 2018 will increase by 9 percent compared to 2017. There's also a minimum wage increase from January 1st to 723th. For 2018, the total education budget is projected at 218 billion, 18 percent more than last year. Also in 2018, a further wage increase of 25 per cent is planned for teachers, including an additional 6.7 billion dollars, which is important and should be an integral part of education reform. But the effect of raising wages alone is not to achieve, first of all, the quality of the law that was passed in the first plenary week of the session. Science. To increase scientific potential, we have allocated nearly 8 billion for 2018, 24 percent more than this year, these costs will go towards the preparation of scientific personnel, particularly young scientists, fundamental and applied research, the development of scientific and technological infrastructure. Another priority of the budget is culture. The government has moved away from the residual principle of financing this area, and we have focused on changing the funding mechanism, which will allow not only rational use of budgetary resources but also focus on the implementation of the most important projects, such as the development of a national cinematographer, and the construction of state-owned objects in the field of culture, such as the Pantheon of Heroes. Protection of health. Expenditures in this area increase by 11 percent, amounting to nearly 114 billion dollars. The budget provides financial resources for the implementation of medical reform, which we urge you to finally approve and open up opportunities for a fundamental improvement in the quality of public health care. In particular, with the aim of implementing medical reform, the primary health care costs of 13 billion dollars are taken into account, the centralized purchase of medicines and medical supplies of about 6 billion dollars, and the creation and financing of the National Health Service as the sole national health contractor, and 211 million dollars are available. In 2018, 7.3 billion dollars are projected to be spent in support of agro-industrial development and agriculture. Costs are planned to target the development of farms, support for farmers, and the development of animals, and so forth. Road infrastructure. In 2018, 44 billion dollars are projected for road infrastructure development. These are the expenditures of the general fund of the state budget and the special fund within the State Road Fund, and they are also expected to contribute 5.4 billion dollars to international donors. We see the development of the network of roads as one of the most effective, most important incentives for the development of the country's economy. Finally, by working together, we're launching an important energy efficiency tool that we've been working on for two years. The energy efficiency fund is expected to channel 800 million dollars from the state budget and to additionally receive 800 million dollars from international donors. These costs will allow work to be done from the implementation of energy efficiency measures launched in previous years to a new level. The financial resources of the local budgets for 2018 are estimated at $521 billion, nearly 10 percent higher than in 2017. The amount of State financial support for investment programmes and regional development projects for the following year is maintained at the level of 10 billion dollars in 2017. At the same time, in order for reforms to succeed, the funds allocated to them must be used effectively and targeted for results. So we're changing the focus of budget funding from getting budget institutions to financing services. Quality government services should become the main criterion for assessing the efficiency of budget programmes. Thus, we are already funding some services in the health and education systems. For example, in 2018 we will continue to implement the pilot project by changing the funding of individual institutions of the National Academy of Medical Sciences, which provides for a shift from cost-effective maintenance to health-care services. It is proposed that the list of services to be paid from the state budget be extended to some 9,000 services to which 600 million dollars will be directed. Now the pilot is moving slowly, and a lot of people blame this corruption on the system. But we do not need to look for the guilty, but we need to be able to work with transparency and get a decent salary for the doctors. Also within a century of the National Academy of Sciences, a pilot project on the financing of science will be launched since 2018. Yes, we suggest that we move from the normal retention of scientific institutions to the procurement by the state of priority for the society of scientific research. 500 million dollars will be spent on this. We're allocating these funds, not to pay the utility bill, but to the state's current, important scientific research, from which we expect clear results. Again, it's not going to be easy, but science has to work. Despite the complexity of these pilot projects, we will continue to implement them, because beyond this, we need to introduce new approaches in principle. A fundamentally important element of the stability of the financial system is the gradual reduction of the deficit, which will reduce debt burden. In debt policy, our task is to reduce the level of government debt from 66.8 percent to 55 percent in 2020 in 2018-2020. One way to implement such an ambitious task is to gradually reduce the government budget deficit to 2 percent in 2020. We formed a budget, not from expenditure and wishes, but from income and real opportunities. Therefore, all expenses are supported by income. There is no room in the 2018 budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u3	Can we add two minutes to the minister? Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u4	Budget revenues reflect what income the economy can actually provide next year without raising taxes. The government is definitely against tax rises because we are interested in developing a favourable business environment. Of course, both you and my government colleagues would like to finance more expenses, but we need to assume that we have a limited resource, that we spend always easier and more enjoyable than we can make, especially when we make money from others and spend from others. At the same time, in order for people to experience change and the country has developed successfully, it is necessary to develop an economy, and it is in our hands. This can be achieved through transparent privatization, investment involvement, detinction, the destruction of schemes, and the fight against corruption. Some steps in this direction have already been made. We've launched an automatic VAT recovery register, and there's an automatic VAT risk monitoring system that makes it impossible for the budget to be broken down and for the VAT to be wrongly reimbursed. In the past, the budget has lost billions, and we've stopped it. It's some kind of tax revolution, and we don't have the right to let it go back in time. I appeal to all MPs not to allow this or to support appropriate initiatives. Among the priorities we have is institutional reform and a major reform of the State Fiscal Service, which will allow us to fully reboot the system and increase trust on the part of taxpayers. In addition, we have to take responsibility and send to the Supreme Council a government bill on the Financial Investigations Service. Creating the SFR is a long overdue issue that I've been trying to resolve since the first day of my assignment, and we can't put this issue on hold for a month. I will persuade you, honourable deputies, the President and Prime Minister to support the Minfina bill, which was also supported by the government. I focus on this because all of these decisions have an impact on the quality of the budget, the efficiency of the use of budget funds and the development of the economy as a whole. It's our shared responsibility, and you and I need to move the process and initiate positive changes. The budget for the following year is realistic, balanced, forward-looking. It's a growth and development budget, it's an investment in future generations. I thank the Minfin team for their quality and well-coordinated work. Thank you, Prime Minister, and all members of the government, for the active participation and support and unity of the government team, to which I am proud to be a member. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u5	Thank you. Thank you to the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you. Five minutes, Amelchenko Vasil Vasilovich, from the rostrum, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] My colleagues, as I suggest, listen to me: literally 2-3 minutes and then 40 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] I suggest. Anyway, I have to give Amelia my word. I suggest you let him speak for three minutes, and we'll have 40 minutes to ask. [[B in m in s a l in]] What is the problem? I won't! Let him speak, then 40 minutes to ask. How much time do you need to perform? Three minutes. Please, Mr. Amelchenk, three minutes, and then we'll have more to ask. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u6	Let's make sure you have a little bit more time to prepare questions for the finance minister. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies and distinguished Prime Minister and members of the Ukrainian government! Today's submission of the State Budget Bill 2018 takes place in a time-limit defined by legislation that allows us to consider this budget at the proper time in accordance with the full procedure set out in the Rules. On Wednesday, the Committee on Budget Affairs, under the direction of the Ministry of Finance, presented the main priorities of the State Budget project for 2018 and a lively and professional conversation took place. The discussion has traditionally shown the most vulnerable issues of the proposed inter-budget ratios in the bill. First of all, it's about the government's offer of attention. – on the groundless transfer to local budgets of payment of housing and utility benefits without the sources of compensation for such costs and the legislative regulation of the right of local authorities to influence the granting of these benefits. It should be recalled that, following the government’s initiative of last year, local budgets have been similarly transferred to debt travel, and the issue remains very vulnerable to the socially vulnerable population to this day. Many questions have also arisen regarding the provision of financial resources for the transfer of colleges and technology to the local level. Questions were also raised about the justification of the high cost of public budget forecasts for the roads of individual territories, with the introduction of the State Road Fund since 2018 and the application of uniform approaches to the distribution of such funds. At the same time, the question of whether to continue the next year of the road development customs experiment, based on the positive and two-year practice of this application and the problems accumulated over the years in the road sector, was discussed. Among the features of the project are the forecasting of government budget expenditure on primary health care and the corresponding reduction in local health subsidies budgets compared to the current year. This is now a risky step, since a basic bill on medical reform has not yet been adopted as a whole and there is no legal basis for its implementation. The final decision of the Supreme Council on pension reform may also need to clarify the state budget project indicators. In addition, there is a question of the availability of financial security for implementation in the following year.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u7	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u8	The law. There is also a question of the financial sustainability of the recently adopted Education Act in the following year. In particular, it is appropriate to note that the revenue part of the State budget project is formed with the formation of government tax initiatives, namely the indexation of individual taxes rates and the approximation of excise duty on tobacco products to the level of the EU. It should be noted, then, that the reality of the budget is largely realistic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u9	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u10	It should therefore be noted that the reality of the budget’s coming is largely dependent on the adoption of such bills. I hope the Supreme Council will have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u11	Thank you. So, colleagues, Daniluk took his time, so we have 35 minutes to ask. Colleagues, 35 minutes to question the national MPs. I ask everyone to prepare for the recording, who wants to ask questions to the government. Can we keep a record? Everybody in place? Please sign up for a question to the government, 35 minutes, please. Ribak Ivan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u12	Ivan Ribak, Cherniewec district, 202 constituency. I, I have a question for the Minister of Infrastructure. Mr. Volodymyr, please tell us that in 2008 there were terrible floods in the area of Carpathian region: Visniki, Putilski, Starożinetski district of Cherniewec region. Then they partially reconstructed the road infrastructure, but to this day, tens of thousands of people remain, as they call it, with one way of life, absolutely without road cover, a narrow path that at any time simply washed with water at the time of the flood. Is the next budget in 2018 planned to eliminate the effects of floods in Western Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u13	Thank you for your question, noble national MP. As you know, thanks to the support of the Ukrainian Parliament, the government proposal we finally have the Road Fund, which should be fully operational as of 1 January 2018. And for the first time, all regions of Ukraine will receive adequate funding and responsibility for the local district roads. We expect it to be about 25, maybe more, billions that will be directly subordinated to areas. And then each area will be able to decide for itself on which roads, how far these costs are allocated and how to conduct tender procedures. I am sincerely convinced that the Carpathian region, which has been in priority both in the past and this year, will be able to continue to develop and the road infrastructure will improve.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u14	Thank you. Please ask Mr. Yatzenko the next question. Let's have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u15	Dear government! I want to address Mr. Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman directly. We have formed a working group in the summer that has to fund the entire childhood that is now ill, that is, the treatment of all diseases for children should be provided by the State of funding. Unfortunately, the group is working, but there is nothing. So I would very much like for the Prime Minister to personally hold a meeting on this issue, and we have decided on this. And the second question is most important. Today, 113 people waiting for treatment abroad are underexpenditure. If we don't do it by 2018, we don't give them money, they're gonna die. Therefore, it is a great request to provide funding for 300 million dollars already this year so that these people can live. Thank you for your attention. There are especially children there, many children. I ask you personally to take this matter under the control of the Prime Minister of Ukraine personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u16	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u17	Thank you for your question, distinguished national MP. According to the budget, the budget project that we submitted to the Supreme Council, we predicted 382, in my opinion, a million to treat people abroad, almost twice as much as this year. But when we're working on the final version of the document, we're going to discuss with you, in particular, this topic, and this topic that you've been addressing a number of times: the treatment of children in a country that's very important. That's why we're in dialogue today, this dialogue will be held for several months in the walls of Parliament. And I am deeply convinced that we will find the right solutions to ensure that patients are financed abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u18	Please, Mrs. Suslova, to whom the word Mr. Tchakouk is addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u19	Dear Alexander Alexander, I have a similar question to you, only more specific, with numbers. In 2017 there were 203 million people abroad for the treatment of children. In time, another 186 million were added to the budget. At present, there is a need for 336 million, 73 people in need of treatment. The State Budget 2018 project provides more than 380 million. But we see a trend and the total amount that we need is over 700 million that we need to put in the draft budget for 2018. We ask that we take this proposal into account and not make it with the MOH and the oncible beggars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u20	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u21	That's not even a question. It's like a comment we support. And of course, as you know, last year's government has significantly increased funding for health, health, and this year's funding has increased. Of course, for treatment abroad when preparing the budget for second reading, we will look for additional resources and opportunities to finance it. We realize that this is very relevant, and people’s lives depend on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u22	Thank you. Mr. Stappchuk is handing over the microphone, right to the question of Anton Kiss. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u23	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Vladimir Borisovich, could I have your attention? First of all, I want to thank you and Deputy Prime Minister Kistion for allocating money to the Tarutin area by road cover, which links Tarutino to Arciz. I think soon and 66 million will come in to tie Arciz, Sarata to Odessa-Rani. But I've got a question for you next. You know that by the end of the year, an experiment is being completed to provide money from customs overtime. Please tell us what position if you have a position to support this experiment in 2018. Because by its effectiveness, you can see more than just hear. In the Odessa region, we're the only ones in the Odessa region who'll win about 3 billion bracelets by the end of the year. This is a request from voters, district leaders and people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u24	Thank you for asking. I remember 2016, when in this room, when I was a candidate for Prime Minister, then I said and promised in this room that we would start a large-scale construction of roads in Ukraine. In fact, we started this, and in no way are we going to stop. And I want to emphasize that, yes, as of January 1, 18th, a state-owned road fund will be launched as a new financing tool. But that road funding will only increase. The point is that this year we have about 30 billion available road resources, and next year it's going to be more than 42 billion road costs. We will advise you to distribute these resources systematically so that the cost is sufficient, or more for the next year for the construction of the roads. The road fund will determine exactly the source, and believe me, the task is not to reduce the amount of work done, but to increase. We need to speed up the rate of capital repair. In addition, respectable friends, including the southern part of the country. We're building a new one. We are renewing the Lviv-Ternopil-Hmelnicki-Vinnice-Oman-Odes-Macolai and Herson road. And in addition to this 42 billion, we're adding 4 billion to make sure that this road is completely repaired capitalally and restored. Besides, we're predicting another road, this is Kiev-Harkiv-Dowzhansky, this is the east, which was also initiated by the President to restore it. So we've foreseen an additional 2 billion dollars for this construction. So the total resource is going to be about 46-48 billion dollars next year. This is a serious enough tool to restore Ukrainian roads. And we will continue this work. About the mechanisms, about the justice of distribution, it's very important. Now you're talking about a customs experiment. And I want to draw attention to one issue that's important to the whole country. Do we have to fight the customs smuggling? We do. I also told you from this rostrum that we have shadow money on customs from 25 billion to 50 billion dollars. This year, dear friends, with the efforts of the DFS, we have to celebrate the efforts of DFS leader Sold by Miroslav Vasilovich, and we will be able to mobilize from these payments plus an additional 50 billion in Ukraine's budget. But this all needs to be done systematically, so we need new equipment on customs, we need scanners on customs and so on. Thus, the Ukrainian DFS announced a tender for the purchase of such scanners. We have to do an X-ray on all the borders of our country to figure out what goods are coming into the country at which prices are coming. So think about it, the Antimonopoly Committee cancelled the tender at all yesterday or the day before. This cannot be called a crime against the state, against coming to the state budget, it's a crime that covers smuggling in a country that doesn't allow us to fight effectively. I'm going to deal with the Antimonopoly Committee, and if I see a plot that the whole country is talking about today, that the Antimonopoly Committee has become the second solicitor in the country, I'm going to ask about the release of the head of the Antimonopoly Committee and with all of them there as proponents in order to bring the government into line. We made you and me, we made ProZorro very good, and now we're building a double solicitor's room, which is absolute abuse and corruption in our country. I will ask for your public support, dear friends, and we must overcome this evil once and for all. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u25	Please ask the following question from National Deputy Igor Goose. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u26	Igor Gus, 19th constituency. Volodymyr Borisovich, a question to you. I don't know if you've seen the American movie "Baba Day," where the main character wakes up on the same day and so forth. So I'm like the newvolinsky mining deputy, budget preparation, and it's a matter of closing down the 10th mine. In this budget, 10 million for the next year. It's to close the only mine that's being built. Minister Nasalik tells us that there is no carbon in the country, we will be running from South Africa, the United States, and the Russian Federation. Vladimir Borisovich, what is the principle of government's position on this issue? We need the 10th mine, 30 million tons, or we're closing it. Give me an answer so I know what to do. I'm going to the county today, there's two questions or we're conducting a dialogue, or October's a peaceful march, a miner's strike to Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u27	Thank you, my fellow national MP. Honestly, I don't have time to watch movies. But I'm glad that Ukrainian films this year have become much more than they were in the past, including thanks to our support, for creating a Ukrainian cinematography, including in this 500 million dollar budget, we're going to be doing this kind of support. But if you were to be careful and watch government meetings when we presented the budget, and I said there perfectly clearly, we have a strategy approved by the government, prepared, including by mining companies, to be implemented. And in fact, you're absolutely right here, we think we need to have this discussion in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament in order to figure out how much money we need to spend for 2018 to put in place this strategy that we're going to give priority to. But I can tell you exactly, we're interested, I confirm, in increasing the quantity of Ukrainian coal mining, precisely Ukrainian coal, because imported coal is disrupting our international trade balance. We have to produce coal in the country. But the condition is the only one -- it's the extremely serious safety of Ukrainian miners. So here I am on your side and ready to find the right solutions within Parliament to finance the modernisation of the coal sector. In particular, I want to say, I think there's also a lot of abuse in the government coal sector, and we also have to put order, order, because this morning, before dusk, Ukrainian miners work, they get coal -- and they have the right to get a decent salary and efficient management at the mine, mine, and industry in the country. So this strategy is the answer to what our economic sector will be in the medium and long term. Come on, come on, come on. We're working. And I support all the very effective decisions on support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u28	Thank you. The following question is asked by Igor Shurma, who has the right to ask his colleague Mr. Volodymyr Husak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u29	I have a question for the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Economics regarding the activities of the Cruise Station. Recently, he finally left the post of Director-General of the Crucifixions of Wojciech Balchun. And that must be good, for Balchun did not link his life to Ukraine. But the situation on the Railroads is very difficult. Vladimir Borisovich, on June 1, you opened a reconstructed area of the Commission-Zorya, Volnovaha-Mariupol, but since then the number of trains to Mariupol has not increased, but has decreased, and the new management of the Crossroads has begun its work by trying to raise the tariffs by 22.5 percent. Even Balchun began his search for internal reserves. Over the past few years, the Railroad has had a huge increase in tariffs and has received an additional 20 billion dollars. Now, every week, they're talking about arresting corruption workers at the Railroad. I have a question. Will the quality of the Crossroads be improved, corruption overcame, and when?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u30	Thank you for asking. I would like to emphasize that our task today is to conduct a corporation in this and the following year, to create an independent supervisory board to improve the quality of governance, to conduct an unengaged competition to involve an independent, quality, professional management. But I agree with the fact that for decades the Crucifixion has been formed as a closed society, a union of corrupts. And so today's detention -- it's not today, it's been happening for at least a few years. Once in a while, corrupt workers who work in the Crucified System are detained. The cruiser is hundreds of thousands of people who work, including managers, who are unclean in hand. They just have to be held accountable and put in prison, which is exactly what I agree with. With regard to the problems of the railway. The problems of the railway didn't arise yesterday or the other day, and saying that it was totally Balchun's fault -- that would be totally unfair. I believe that during his tenure there were both negative and positive trends. What's going on today is the temporary manager, who's in charge of the Crucibles, which means it's about making tariffs economically sound is the market. On the other hand, all that might be meant to be promoted as you said should be directed to a special account, to make it an upgrade to the fleet, to the mobile composition of the Ukrainian railway. I know that today manufacturers are having a serious professional discussion with the Runway Commission, and I'm counting on a compromise to support, including domestic producers. Here I'm talking about a reasonable balance and a reasonable balance of interests for both the carrier and the manufacturer. In particular, we are reducing costs, including for export-oriented industries, by 20 percent from 1 January 2018 to 20 percent, the ports will be reduced in Ukrainian ports, that is, we are working to create competitive conditions to increase the potential of our domestic production and including exports. We're going to put order in the Crucibles and do it, including the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u31	Thank you. Please, now, Mr. Meparishvili's word. Your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u32	Good afternoon. People's Front. Meparishvili Hviča Nadarovich. I give the floor to Maxim Juryevich Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u33	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, good afternoon. We've worked very hard on the State Budget project for the following year, and we can say that all the demands that the People's Front had repeatedly insisted on. First of all, it's funding our national security and defenses at at least 5 percent of the gross domestic product. The second is support for the diversification of energy supply. The third is support for all the reforms that we are adopting in this room: pension, education, health reform. The next is to continue repairing the roads. I would like to point out, Vladimir Borisovich, that the financing of national security and defence at the level of 5 percent of the gross domestic product initiated by the government of Arsenius Yatsenyuk has been funded by the general fund of the state budget, not by special funds, so that we know that this money is for our army and for our defence.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u34	Thank you, Maxim Yuriovich, for your question. As far as security and defense are concerned, we've been working very hard on budgeting, and as you've seen, from the presentation of over 160 billion dollars, 164 billion dollars this year will be the next year's defense budget. So for the first time, we've reached 3 percent for the Ukrainian Army, including 11 billion plus for the security for our Ukrainian military and, most of all, what we're predicting is another 6.5 billion over this year, is 65 percent more, that's 16.5 billion to modernize the weaponization of military technology and so on. So actually today, I remember 164, this is all about military spending. And what's important is that we've foreseen the maximum expenditure at the expense of the general fund of the state budget. Why do I react so much today to such claims by the Antimonopoly Committee and so forth? Colleagues, when we mobilize everything to make every penny available for the service of the state and of the people, someone allows himself to make his insurmountable decisions just to destroy the systemic fight against such shadow streams, and that's why I'm talking about how important it is for us today to mobilize funds into the budget. And by the way, I want to emphasize that this budget project is a budget project that stimulates economic growth. Although we will need to take a number of important changes with you, including with regard to industrial parks, including the introduction of other tools, the promotion of domestic production and export support, by the way, exports in Ukraine are increasing. Today, we already have more than 40 percent of exports to European countries. We have two strategic tasks, this deepening, processing, that's creating added value inside and, as you've seen, 2.2 percent in this month, compared to the past, August, by July, there's industrial production, particularly, including in the furniture sector. This means that we have a serious growth potential for industrial production, we just have to step up that. The focus of the 2018 budget is the support, unprecedented, support for agrarian producers, and the support of small and medium-sized producers, which is very important. We're going to provide real support with you or not for the first time, Ukrainian farming, we're going to rebuild the country's animal complex. And you'll see that we can share more than 20 billion dollars with you next year. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u35	Thank you. Instead of Birds - Clan Sergey. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u36	I have to see the Prime Minister. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, who was in Hersonian on a work trip, raised the issue of coal prices. Thanks to the actions of so-called blockers, Ukrainians received a coal price of 6.5 or 7,000 dollars. To date, half of the Herson region has no gas supply, and you gave urgent orders to the minister of social policy to recalculate subsidies. Please tell me, is anything in this direction resolved? And the second question that was raised is, in the Hersonian area, that's about the leadership of the State Fiscal Service. Hersonskin has taken last place in the business rating, and two corruption scandals have recently taken place with the participation of the leaders of the Hersonian DFS. And you heard complaints from entrepreneurs when you met them. Please tell me, is anything done in this direction?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u37	Thank you. The only thing I can say is that in the 2018 budget we predicted for solid fuel, 2.7 billion dollars -- these are the subsidies for these very households. And as for the DFS, you know, I think there's information that's different in terms of business pressures and so on, and you give concrete examples of where these pressures have been made, because today I get enough positive signals from business that the work of DFS is already signs of a normal, civilized interaction. This is business speaking, this is not me speaking, this is Business Ombudsman speaking, this is said by Business Associations, both Ukrainian and international. So I think the DFS is becoming a completely civilized structure now more than ever. What's more, I banned the masquerading. You know, there's my letter to the head of the DFS and also to the head of the IMF, so that, if there's no real threat to the life and health of the service staff, there's nothing there in vending machine masks. This is fundamentally important to me, and we will deal with such cases. And everything else is an economic activity that needs to be clearly defined whether they were in the abuse business or not. I want to say one thing: I will always be on the side of legal business, legal business. Period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u38	Thank you. Please, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u39	Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party. I have a question primarily with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy. On the other hand, we hear that every year we hear that this is a development budget, but there's something that we don't see. I have a question about why we put such systemic imbalances aside. For example, for energy, for heat, for loans, it's 800 million dollars, and for subsidies, it's over 50 billion dollars. It's to preserve an existing system, it's to eat, it's just to spend on raw oligarchs. Why is 200 million dollars invested in export-credit activities to stimulate exports? And you can tell me how much foreign goods are being imported when one Kiev alone buys Polish goods when the minister of infrastructure says that used German electricity is good for Ukraine. When will you stop this shameful policy and when will we really start developing industry?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. Thank you for asking. But what I want to say is this. Our task together is to achieve sustained economic growth. So next year we predict that growth in the economy is going to be equal to three percent. I agree, and I've been talking about this in my last speech, just now, about what we need to localize production. And what I want to emphasize is that it's extremely important, for example, we have 1 billion in the next year -- one example -- to compensate for 20 percent of the cost of agriculture, the agricultural engineering, which is produced with the appropriate localization of more than 50 percent, and this is Ukrainian jobs, so for the production of Ukrainian technology. This is just one example. I can talk about farming, I can talk about agriculture, I can talk about other areas where we're investing today. I think you'll see that we're going to make billions of contracts for these things. What's more, today, through the ProZorro ready system, we fully understand the internal manufacturer. As far as subsidies are concerned. So the subsidy is the support of Ukrainian citizens with low incomes. And our job today is to fight for higher social standards in the country, and that can only be done if the economy grows. So I encourage all of us to take the necessary measures to accelerate economic growth next year, and there are a number of important tools that we can do together, especially those initiatives that are being done by your faction. Now it's about ESA. ESA provides 200 million to create, not for its activities. So we're going to make it, and we're going to do it. How much money do we need to make this system work? It's a question of supporting the Ukrainian exports that I'm talking about today, and we're going to create them. Moreover, we will personally involve you in the work of an expert credit agency, which is very important. That's why we don't have to print it, but only one thing to say: I'm no less than the people present in this room, I understand the importance of creating a national competitive product that's innovative and competitive enough, and I'm in favour of creating high-paying jobs in Ukraine. This is the way, but this way we have to go along with you. And I am deeply convinced that over the next two years, before the next election, this Parliament can still make so many right decisions that it will ensure that economic growth is irreversible and that the quality of people's lives and their social standards is improved. Thank you. I urge you to work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u41	Thank you. The palace of Arthur passes the word to Bilocerkov. Turn on the microphone. Please, Bilocerkovec.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u42	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, a question to you on the draft budget for 2018, a question of educational subsidies. In view of the educational reform planned to increase wage teachers within 25 percent for 2018, the increase in government budget subsidies is only 16.5 percent. Why so? And if you take the city of Kiev in general, there's actually a reduction in the subsidy from 3.1 billion to 2.7. Please tell me what the city of Kiev should do. Lower the teacher's salary? Also the second question on the Road Fund: why is there no city of Kiev in the project for the 2018 budget, there are all areas, and there is such discrimination that the cities of Kiev do not exist? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u43	Thank you. I would like to emphasize that the issue of wage increases for the Ukrainian teacher is one of the priorities for our government. In this year 2017, we have raised wages by 50 percent, another 25 percent we plan to raise in 2018. It's all completely, it's completely, it's all completely calculated and we have the necessary. Budgets and funding are needed. You're talking about an overall increase in the structure of education spending, and we're talking about part of wages, so the figures can vary: 25 percent and 16 percent of the total increase in the budget itself. But what about what to do with the city of Kiev? The city of Kiev is our pearl and our capital. As Prime Minister, I always pay special attention to the city of Kiev because it's focused, well, it's our capital, yes, every city in Ukraine has a bearing on the capital. So let me stress that financial decentralization has enabled Kiev, or not for the first time in its history, to accumulate billions of dollars in Kiev's development, billions of dollars in independent history. I can tell you, I have a figure, even for today, of this kind of cost in different cities and areas, which is only 11 billion in Kiev. So what's the point? We will continue to support the Kiev. I think there are enough financial instruments in Kiev to ensure funding for all the necessary articles and, more importantly, to ensure development, but agree that money needs to be invested more, but it's time. Because there is an economic growth from which we produce and finance. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u44	Thank you. The fisherman Sergey Viktorovich gives the floor to Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u45	Oleg Lazko. Mr. Prime Minister, you're talking about providing people with subsidies. Ukrainians do not need subsidies, Ukrainians need a job and a decent salary to pay people such wages that they do not need subsidies. The minimum wage you're offering next year -- 4 million people live on a minimum wage -- you're offering 3,700, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough to meet the basic needs of people. So we demand a minimum wage of 5,000 dollars per month for people to have a normal pension. [[Applause]] Because from an increase in retirement age, there will be no increase in retirement. A high-retirement note is a high wage. And finally, Mr. Prime Minister, you and I are opponents because you're saying, "Sustainable economic growth." The country's steady economic growth is possible under one condition: development, modernization and support of national production, not imports. Get the imports out of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u46	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, first of all, I mean, I don't think that in raising people's social standards, you and I are opponents. I think you and I are the same. And I am deeply convinced that the steps that the government is taking today, whether you are in opposition or you are in power, to assess the increase in the minimum wage in the last year, which has become possible thanks to the decision-making in this Parliament, including your faction, is true. This enabled us to increase, and we made the wage of 3,000 and 200 in the country a minimum. But we discovered another important possibility, and we just didn't talk about it. We have opened the way to increasing pensions for Ukrainian citizens. And when I hear it, my esteemed colleagues, when they talk about what the pension system can and can now raise pensions, you know, that's either how people who don't understand can say anything, or those who just play on the pain of Ukrainian citizens and pensioners. We have a pension system today that's subsidized, and today it's a deficit of 141 billion. If you take any step today without a system of building a fair pension system to raise it, this deficit is going to be 200 billion or 250. It's a disaster, it's an absolute non-professionality, and you can't do that. Instead of the government's proposal for pension reform, this reform is complex, systemic. I'm stressing that this is exactly what will lead to an increase in pension payments, pensions, an increase in pensions for Ukrainian pensioners. I emphasize that out of 12 million, in the first phase alone, 9 million Ukrainian pensioners are already in October. Friends, and we're going to have to vote 3rd on this because we won't be able to count pensions if you don't vote. I want to thank 219 Ukrainian national deputies today. Peter Dust Block, friends, thank you very much. People's Front, Maxim Yuriovich, colleagues from the People's Front, thank you very much. [[Applause]] Oleg Valeriyovich, thank you for showing a civil position yesterday and supporting the consideration of this issue. I'm going to separate the people's deputies. Dear friends, everyone. I believe that after voting for this important reform that people are looking forward to. Every Ukrainian pensioner should know who personally supported this unprecedented increase in Ukrainian pensions. So, dear friends, we need to be united and fight for raising social standards for Ukrainian citizens, this is our duty with you, and this, if you will, is our moral duty to every Ukrainian citizen. And what you said about subsidies. Subsidies are a temporary measure to protect Ukrainian citizens. We have to fight to raise their income, not raise their subsidies. And that's what we're working on today. And by the way, I'd like to emphasize that the State Energy Efficiency Fund that we created with you in this room will work next year. And we accumulate there, including with the support of our European partners, attention, 1 billion 600 million dollars. This is just the beginning of a system platform for the implementation of high-quality energy efficiency in our country. I'd like you to notice that. This is just the beginning. Only we're going to raise resources to make Ukraine energy efficient, people get warmth and comfort in their homes, and they're going to make a reasonable payment for these services. That's our goal. But in one month we can't do this to you, no law can do that in one month. This is the way, but we've come with you this way and we have this path to go. I am deeply convinced that we will be united and united, and we will show success, success, which will be experienced by all citizens of Ukraine. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u47	Thank you. My colleagues, we have literally less than five minutes left. I think we can do as many as two questions as we can. But I'm asking you to do it in a very concise way. Come on, who's here now? Barna, I'll give it to you. Belkova, BPP. Kostenko. Three people, very brief questions, and we will conclude. We still have a review of the amendments today. Please, Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u48	Thank you. Good afternoon! In his activity or inaction, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee led virtually the monopolies of Ukraine. But another is a question from the electorate. If private collectors are hired for debossing people’s debts, why are public court executives awarded bonuses, and why do executive services in general? And the second question. I'm talking to Vladimir Borisovich. To regulate the activities of the National Bank for the establishment of minimum services by the banks of Ukraine. Because it turns out that at the bank's service, five dollars, people only pay two bracelets. Or for a fee of 1 euro on the Ukrisibbank border for transportation of transit services, the bank also takes a service of 1 euro or 30 dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u49	We will consider this information, yes. I just wanted to say, this was about electricity. Now we're working on creating the conditions for ordering from the localization of Ukraine's mobile structure of Cruiseways as well as freight cars, that's 100 percent of the localization in Ukraine, as well as the passenger mobile warehouse. We are working on this, including in cooperation with international producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u50	Please, Bilkova. And I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u51	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister of Finance, I will begin by thanking you. Thank you for showing in the draft budget the distribution of rents to places in part of the production. This is very important for all regions. And I'm very sorry that in the Poltav region today, local politicians are actually blocking the extradition of both state and private companies and leaving their people, citizens, millions of dollars that they could get in 2018. At the same time, I'd like to know what government plans to introduce an incentive rate of rent per product for 2018.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u53	Thank you. With regard to plans to stimulate gas production. As the Prime Minister has already said and given us an assignment, we are now working on a mechanism to stimulate the extraction of new wells. I think we'll be ready by now. When we look at the changes to the second reading, we'll already have a position, I hope we can integrate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u54	Thank you. And one last question. Kostenko Pavlov Petrovich, handing over to Roman Semensi. Last question and we're going to the right, colleagues, right-wing authors, I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u55	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. I have a question in the context of the budget to the Minister of Finance. Minister, first of all, about debt policy. As of 2019, there is a record repayment of $7.5 billion. I think that's exactly what we need to think about today. We want to hear what this cost is coming back to. The other one. It raises doubts about the income part of the budget. Especially with regard to privatization of arrivals. The previous governments planned between 2014 and 2017 an amount of about 17 billion dollars. Not even close to any of these figures have been executed. But by 2018, you're already planning 22.5 billion dollars. Even the law of profile is still unadopted. What accounted for this number? Next. There is doubt as to the income tax of natural persons. Because you're offering to raise the minimum wage by 16 percent, the VAT revenue by 17 percent. But even the fact of arrivals in the current year is beyond that. What does that mean, miscalculation or aren't we planning on creating jobs next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. Regarding debt policy and peak payments in 2019-2020, you suggest that we think about it. We're not thinking about it for the first year, in fact, and we're making a decision to reduce the load. And once again, I want to get your attention. At the beginning of this week, we placed $3 billion of Eurobonds for 15 years. A lot of these 3 billion are going to smooth out payments in the 19th, 20th. 1.6 billion dollars goes into this: it reduces the burden, it reduces not only the cost of the debt budget, it also reduces the risks of the financial system, it will have a positive impact on our ratings and it will also reduce the cost of borrowing for the private business. This is the first time. Secondly, we're reducing the deficit. This releases resources to reduce debt burden. This is another mechanism. And also because of the growth of the economy, by the 20th year, the economy will grow to about 4 percent, as set out in the Budget Resolution. With regard to privatization. Sorry, but next year we also have a medical, pension reform that has not yet been voted on, but these reforms are important for the country. Privatisation is equally important, and without privatization the economy will not grow. Therefore, the law that is now in Parliament to simplify the conditions of privatization is important and will ensure the necessary revenues in the next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u57	I can only add one thing, you said privatization. Dear friends, I consider privatization not only as income to the state budget, but we have introduced the new Privatization Act, which is a very quality, European, transparent law that will ensure quality privatization and competition in the market country. So this is going to be a very strong anti-corruption step, this is going to be a very strong economic step, because investment and economic growth are going to get rid of these damn debt burdens in our country just because of economic growth. And it is important for us to vote with you in this room this year that this law will allow the whole world to invest in Ukraine, in new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u58	Thank you. And please, the closing word is Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, Prime Minister. And we'll finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u59	Thank you, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I mentioned another thing, by the way, that we have an industrial committee working on the restoration of Ukrainian industry and support. Yeah, well, the committee today has information about blocked for the same reason by the Antimonopoly Committee, blocked by tens of billions of tenders for the production of Ukrainian competitive products, friends. I think it's also a diversion in terms of economic growth and new jobs in the country. We're going to fight this and, I'm sure, we're going to win. Dear colleagues, I would like to thank you for today's budget discussion. We have put into the perfectly legal terms of the September 15th budget for open, professional and qualitative discussion. We have a very public meeting with you, open a few months in the work and discussions with an expert environment to come up with a quality economic growth document in 2018. This budget is very high-priority, and we talked about it today. It's both security, and defense, it's education, it's health, it's social protection, it's modernization, it's capital repair of Ukrainian infrastructure, it's a lot of other things that affect the quality of life of Ukrainian citizens. I call upon all of us to be responsible in this process and to hold these discussions as quickly as possible and as qualitatively as possible. Once again, dear friends, it is absolutely important that you and I, in the next plenary week, not later than next Tuesday of the plenary, do everything we can to consider and approve the pension reform of Ukraine. This will give us an opportunity even though in the last days, but to be able to raise the Ukrainians in October. We'll do it, the Ministry of Social Policy and the Pension Fund will do it. We're going to be working 24 hours a day so that every Ukrainian pensioner out of 9 million gets a recalculation and an increase in pensions. I'm pretty sure next Tuesday we're going to have the maximum appearance, the maximum complexity, and we're going to make that decision. And I also wish to all of us, dear friends, by using the procedures provided for in the Rules, not to delay the ad hoc consideration of judicial reform. Because the delay in artificially judicial reform results in the postponement of the pension reform itself. And those who are critical of pension reform today, I ask everyone to wait. Friends, in October months, when we start implementing it, everyone who criticizes it will be ashamed to look into the eyes of their voters, and it will be embarrassing to look in the eyes of Ukrainian pensioners. And to all of us who are united, I think we'll have something to be proud of. Thank you, dear friends, and I wish us quality and fruitful cooperation. Thank you for this discussion. And the government is always open to professional, high-quality dialogue with the Ukrainian people's deputies. Thank you, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u60	We thank the Government and the Prime Minister for presenting the draft State Budget Act, and according to article 154 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the State Budget is transferred to the Committee's site. I hope that we will be able to go through all the necessary budgetary procedures, as we did last year, in accordance with the statutory deadline. And I want a fruitful work on the Ukrainian State Budget for 2018. Colleagues, please listen to our plan for today. We'll have an hour of speeches from the deputies, but I suggest you read from 12:30 to 1:00, not now. Now, to use this hour to continue our work on the bill of amendment to the codes. But before I go to the right, I have a statement from two factions for a break. It's from the Radical Party faction and Self-Help. And I give you my word for this, please, Mrs. Tetjana Ostrikov. Please, Mrs. Tetjana. And then we go to the draft.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u61	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-help faction. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians. Once a draft budget for 2018 had been presented to the public parliament, and we had to be with you to determine whether it was justified, whether it was realistic, whether it was in line with the principles of the Budget Code on Justice, Efficiency, Publicity and Transparency. First of all, we have a huge macroeconomic issue. There's no macroeconomic budget, we're just being insulted by the government when it's in "Explanatory Note" says, "look, somewhere out there in May, even though all these figures have changed since May. Secondly, the budget is not in line with the Budget Code because it is counted as not yet valid legislation and fiscal and tax rules. Thirdly, the government should now explain the devaluation of the bracelets from 26 to 30.1 dollars per dollar -- this figure raises questions from parliamentarians and causes people to panic. But we can't verify this because the government didn't report on the budget implementation in 2017. Now let's look at the revenue. The thesis that the Minister of Finance here has made about the fact that we don't raise taxes simply doesn't withstand any criticism because the State Budget's Explanatory Note itself shows 6 billion additional sums on the increase in excise rates through indexation, 7.3 billion dollars on tobacco products due to an increase in excise duties just after they are brought to EU legislation, but the wages remain Ukrainian and not euro as the minister of finance passed the Bill on Excise Recalculation. The same applies to the rent per radio frequency resource – mobile operators translate it into tariffs. That's why excise duties and mobile tariffs are going to hit the population's pockets right now, and that makes it very clear that the minister of finance's theorizes that there's no tax rise. Increases in minimum wage. The Self-Help faction welcomes this, it's very good, but if it's combined with incentives to create new jobs, upgrades, economic development. And we don't see any of these incentives at all, but there are two consequences: the VAT payout for small and medium-sized businesses will increase the tax burden and the EU will increase for them, first and foremost, it will hit the simplifications. The increase in VAT on imported goods plus 32 percent, think about this figure, this figure will be won not by fighting smuggling, as the Prime Minister told us here, but by inflation and increasing imports, but by increasing own production. So as you can see, the revenue will grow by inflation and tax pressure, not by growth and growth of the economy, and no incentives, not even the income tax, which would be the stimulus to economic growth, we haven't seen in this budget. And the most important thing I want to say is about spending. We're just being asked by the government to split people's money blindly right now. We don't understand why the Ministry of Internal Affairs has to allocate 12.9 billion dollars more than was allocated in 2017. What did it do, as it served people in 2017? Why should we now allocate more than 1 billion dollars to the Attorney General's Office?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u62	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u63	And 1 billion to the Attorney-General's Office and the Promotional Security Service, at a time when the government's drug buy-in programs are zero, that's the content of this budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u64	Colleagues, let's move on to draft Law 6232. I want to remind you, we ended up at 942 yesterday. And I ask the author of the amendment of Dudenkov to prepare, and the head of the committee of Knyazevitch to take up his fighting post. Ask me at 12:30. So, the 12.30 questions, at 13.30, we have a statement, everything will be according to the planned plan. And now we've got an hour's work to do. Please, Mr. Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! My amendment is to narrow down the number of grounds for not accepting a cassation complaint by a referee judge. The point is that when the party to the trial or the defendant, or the defendant, endured the deadline for the filing of the appeal, he was able to prove his legal position before the court of the cassation. The point is that one of the reasons why a judge does not accept a cassation complaint is that there is no basis for an appeal. If, on the basis of a subjective statement, the referee points out that the alleged cassation complaint is unfounded, he simply will not even consider it, he will not initiate the trial. What, then, is the guarantee of the implementation of one of the conceptually important principles of judiciality, the provision of a case-by-case hearing in the course of a cassation charge? I'd like to propose to 942 to confirm and propose to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u66	942nd. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:21:30.]] For-26 The decision is not made. Next. Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u67	945th and 946 amendments refer to the same thing. We continue to have this problem, which was in the economic process, in the civil process, where in the phase of failure to open cassation, the notion of "the court of a cassation facility" is used. At the same time, the court may act in different ways. He can act as a referee – he's also a court of cassation by making certain decisions. It can act as a composition of a college of judges, such as, after all, the same Chamber, the United Chamber, the Great Chamber, all of which is the court of the cassation. But these institutions do not apply to such a stage as refusing to open cassation. This procedural action is done solely by the reporting judge, so in order to avoid different treatments, we have to use the correct legal terms so that the Supreme Court itself does not have to interpret the procedural codes that we are currently considering. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u68	945th, please identify yourself. [[11:22:53]] For-35 The decision is not made. 946th, please identify yourself. [[11:23:10]] For-32 The decision is not made. Please, Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u69	953 revisions. Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. The relevant article of the procedural code of administrative jurisdiction generally faithfully determines in which cases the court refuses to open cassation proceedings. At the same time, there are two situations that actually restrict our citizens' access to justice, in this case to administrative justice, and prevent them from addressing a court of appeal with a time-limit if the court is tried. if by the judgment under appeal, the court ruled on the rights and obligations of a person who was not involved in the case. There are situations where a person learns about a decision that relates to his rights, freedoms, interests, duties more than a year later, two years later, three years later, and is in fact deprived of the mechanisms to challenge such a judicial decision and restore justice. There are different situations, there are abuses at the level of the courts, there are situations where people simply did not know that the parties and the court did not know that it was necessary to involve the person concerned. But we're depriving her of her ability to talk. That's why it's very necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u70	953. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:24:40]] For-36 The decision is not taken. 959th, Odarchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u71	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, just now the Prime Minister, who was in the session room, complained that there was a big hole in the Pension Fund, a large budget deficit, and offered to accept pension reform as soon as possible. From our point of view, his reform is completely socialally cynical, because on average, he suggests that the pensioners, the workers who already get it, 250 bucks, and young people and those who work can't get a decent pension, because it's going to be substantially reduced. And our amendment relates to the fact that we now have a large number of unrepentant decisions that have been handed over into the private hands of the people's wealth: land parcels, forest plots, useful mines -- which have been legitimized by the courts of the past government. We suggest that we remove the ban on re-enactment of the terms of the case for which a decision was made more than a year ago. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u72	959. Please make up your mind. [[11:26:11]] For-31 The decision is not made. Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u73	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self - Help Unit. 960th, 961th, 962nd and 963rd amendments are combined by a single content. The question relates to 333 articles of the Code of Administrative Justice, where it refers to a stage such as the opening of a cassation. We believe that the proposed edition of the Procedural Code does not cover a very important stage of the procedure, such as the opening of the cassation process, the time frame for the opening of information on how to lead to the participants in the cassation process. That is why we propose to exclude part five, part six, and part seven of article 333 and to add to it two parts of the following table of contents, as noted in the 963 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u74	Thank you. 960. Please make up your mind. [[11:27:26]] For-34 The decision is not made. 961. Please make up your mind. [[11:27:42]] For-33 The decision is not taken. 962. Please make up your mind. [[11:27:58]] For-33 The decision is not made. And 963. Please make up your mind. [[11:28:13]] For-32 The decision is not made. Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u75	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self - Help Unit. 968 amendments, it refers to a very important point: both in the economic process and in the civil process, we gave the court the right to a case for the existence of a party's concern -- a legitimate concern, of course -- to stop the question of the execution of the decision before the court of the case. Imagine that the court misjudged the decision, and in fact the rights of individuals continue to be violated. But the court in the administrative court, whose task is to protect a citizen from the will of the state, is to have even the mechanism temporarily suspend the use of the system and thus ensure that the decision of such a court can be implemented in the future. So I strongly urge you to consider this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u76	968. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:29:28]] For-35 The decision is not taken. 997, Odarchenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u77	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Honourable Ukrainians, honourable colleagues, have just called for a judicial reform to be concluded, motivated by the apparent lack of time to adopt pension reform. I want to remind everyone that judicial reform is a list of laws by which Ukraine will live in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u78	I'm asking you to. I'm sorry to bother you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u79	And there is absolutely no reason for haste in these matters, because today the government has a clear mechanism to raise pensions for active pensioners through the implementation of current laws, due to the modernisation of pensions. This rush, this glimmer that the government is trying to broadcast, has one goal: to adopt short-term pension reform and the laws that apply to the judiciary, which will go only to the detriment of the Ukrainians. And our amendment refers to a reduction in the number of bargaining requirements when considering and dedicating them. I'll look at them. I'd like to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u80	I remind you once again, to act exclusively within and on the right. And please make up your mind. 997. [[11:31:04]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u81	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. 1001 repairs. Well, article 344 of the Code of Administrative Justice speaks of a case being dealt with in court. When we look at the structure of those articles of the procedural code, when we talk about the content of the articles themselves in the middle. You know, I already compared yesterday to this famous director, Tarantino, who shapes his films, cuts them with pieces, and then puts them in some chaotic order. I have the impression that individual parts, separate articles, are formed in this order. That's why we think that part of part two of article 344 should be considered part four, that is to put it below in order to authorize the court, where language is given, that the court of the court of the court of first instance uses the procedural rights of the first instance solely to verify the correct application of the rules of substantive procedural law by the courts of the first appeal institution, was followed by the court reporting the participants of the proceedings and so on. Yes, such content will be far more logical and readable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u82	Please vote for amendment 1001, please. [[11:32:36]] For-40 No correction supported. You insist, don't you? Maybe you'll hear a few of them right away. 1002th yours, 1003rd, 1004th, 1005th. What's that? Three, four, five.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u83	1003rd Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u84	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u85	In this case, we believe it is necessary to supplement it, according to article 344 with new parts of the following content: "The presiding officer opens a court hearing, declares which case, whose complaint and whose court is being tried. The Judge-Rapporteur will report to the extent necessary on the content of the judgment under appeal and prove a cassation complaint and a response to a cassation complaint" - in relation to what part of the sixth, eighth, article to be considered part of the eighth, ninth. Why is this necessary? Of course, if we don't prescribe how these issues will be resolved and dealt with by the courts in a case. But why should we leave any procedural points to court rather than settle them in a procedural code? That is exactly what the legislator is doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u86	Vote, please. [[11:33:58]] For-43 103 revisions not supported. You insist, 104th, 105th? 104th. What about 105? Maybe together? Come on, come on. 104th Sidorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u87	1004th Amendment. Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. This is a very important thing. All practices know what the issue of court-martial restrictions really looks like. The proposed wording suggests that the court should set its own time for all the parties to the trial. At the same time, as this does not rarely appear to be in cassation, the parties are given 2-3 minutes to explain the extremely complex matter and, of course, within that time, it is impossible to substantiate their position qualitatively, the arguments of the cassation complaint. We therefore suggest that this formulation should be followed by the following: "This limitation of the length of explanations should be reasonable and sufficient to enable participants to provide such necessary arguments on the basis of the cassation of the complaint and the appeal against it." Without such a formulation, we will continue to have a shameful practice that is sometimes, not always, the glory of God, but there is when the parties are unduly limited in time for clarification in the courts of the machining institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u88	Let's vote on the 1004 amendment, please. [[11:35:33]] For-46 Not supported. 1005th. You don't insist. 1006, Odarchenko. He insists. Please, Mr. Odarchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u89	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Amendment 1006 refers to the questionable handling of matters. How does this happen now? Court hears 20 to 30 cases a day. After each case, the judges run out of the conference room for 2-3 minutes and make decisions. Then the judges ’ assistants invent motivations for these decisions. And if the Supreme Court is to become a body that interprets laws, that scheme simply cannot work. We therefore suggest that we take into account the experience of Western countries. The court listens to the parties throughout the day, and the decisions are made within 15 days of the day of the hearing. Thus, each of these decisions can be carefully discussed, prepared, and weighed, including assistant judges, and can be checked against other decisions of the Supreme Court in similar matters. Please put our vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u90	Let's vote on this amendment, please. [[11:36:59]] For-35 35 deputies were the only ones who supported her, and she didn't pass. Which one are you insisting on? Mr. Sidorovich insists on the block, for which we thank him. So now it's going to be 108th, 109th, 111th. Please. 112th, 113th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u91	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. A whole block of amendments relating to Article 346 is now being spoken. This is the amendment of 1009, 1011, 1012, 1013, 1014, 1015, 1016 and 1017. All these adjustments speak of one thing. We must rule out such a structure in the Supreme Court as a united chamber. It's not just an extra line at the highest court. Such an obstacle would be an obstacle to the unity of judicial practice. What's more, I want to remind you of Portnov's time reform. When the Supreme Court headed the disagreeable authorities at the time, Onopenko was created a higher specialized court. And the right of referral to the Supreme Court was transferred to the level of the third-instance court. As a result, the Units of Cases were virtually out of proportion for consideration by the Supreme Court. In the end, this led to the legal chaos that we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u92	Please put to the vote Amendment 1008. [[11:38:45]] For-38 Not supported. The next one is 1009. [[11:39:02]] For-39 39 votes, not supported. 1011. [[11:39:21]] For-39 39 votes, not supported. 1012. Do not enter into separate negotiations on amendments. [[11:39:37]] For-40 1013. This non-supported amendment is 40 votes. 1013. [[11:39:52]] For-38 Not supported. 1014. [[11:40:07]] For-38 1015. This is not supported, 38. [[11:40:23]] For-39 39 votes, not supported. 1016. What? It didn't work. [[11:40:39]] For-41 41 votes, not supported. And vote, Mr. Vlasenko. Your voice is not enough either. 1017 amendments, please. [[11:41:01]] For-41 You see, we have 41 votes at once as Vlasenko began to vote. Let's move on. 1018. Sidorovite microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u93	Ruslan Sidorovich, repair 1022. Well, sadly, the question of the United Chambers was not supported. I hope, however, that by the time the final vote takes place, we will be able to return to that question and rule out such a thing as a united chamber. But now I'm talking about the other side of this problem that I've already touched on in my previous speech. If we want the Great Chamber in such a form to perform at any rate that function of shaping the uniformity of judicial practice, we should grant the Great Chamber the right to demand matters in our own initiative. On the other hand, cases to the Great Chamber will not, and will be, the situation that was before the real right to address this call to Parliament during the election of the first bloc of judicial reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u94	We vote, please, Amendment 1022. Please. [[11:42:34]] For-37 37 votes. Not supported. Then Sidorovich, on whom you insist, is there a block of your amendments? 2425, 26. Don't you insist? 26 you insist. Please, Sidorovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u95	Amendment 1026 refers to article 347 of the Code of Administrative Justice. We propose that after part five, a new part of the following content be added: "The decision to consider the matter by the Grand Chamber on the grounds set forth in part six of article 346 of this Code is taken in the form of a acceptance by a majority of its composition. Such a resolution is taken into consideration by a college or a chamber of decision in the matter. The Grand Chamber in such a resolution should justify the need for a derogation from the conclusion on the application of the rules of law in similar relations laid down in a previously approved Supreme Court decision." In this regard, part six, seven, is considered to be part seven, eight respectively. What causes this need? Today, the Great Palace, the entire Supreme Court, will have a colossal challenge to bring about the legal chaos that we have objectively existed today, to the common denominator. If we do not provide such tools, it is never possible to create a uniformity of judicial practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u96	Yeah, we're working till 12. Then at 12:30, we ask questions, and then we say, "Craze." A thousand, we've just had 26 revisions. Vote. [[11:44:12]] For-35 35. Not supported. Next. 29th, 31st, 32nd, 33rd. Shall we take the block too, Mr. Sidorovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u97	1032. Dear colleagues, all practices know what problems arise at every stage of the trial in the first instance, in the appeal, in the cassation, how many unresolved moments there are every day. And somewhere else, an unwritten sentence, an unwritten formation actually sometimes puts the parties at a disadvantage because they can't even figure out something that they can't end up arguing about. In this case, we believe that it is necessary to complete part of the first article 348, please, to put part one of the first 348 in the following line: "Irrespective of the appeal of the case, which of the parties was open to the court of cassation, the plaintiff has the right to drop the suit and the parties have the right to make a reconciliation agreement with respect to the rules of the entire code governing the order and consequences of these proceedings." You see, we're actually depriving the plaintiff of the right to drop his lawsuit without this rule. He doesn't want to support the caller anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u98	Let's vote, please, 32 revisions. And there's a suggestion that we go through with this. Let's, if we can, use the blocks to sound proposals. [[11:45:44]] For-35 Next. 33rd, 34th Sidorovich, 39th. I'm looking at you very carefully. 43rd, 47th. Please, Sidorovich's microphone. I can do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u99	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Amendment 1043. It refers to article 353 of the Code of Administrative Justice, which provides grounds for the annulment of court decisions with a view to furthering or re-examination. We believe that this article, which is presented, does not fully reveal those tasks, and does not explain the substance of that stage of the trial in a qualitative way. Actually, I've talked about this a lot, but I'll keep talking until we finish this consideration. The accuracy and correctness of the definitions that we use in the Code of Procedure directly influence the quality of these judicial decisions that are made by Ukrainian courts. So please support our amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u100	Vote 43. 1043. [[11:47:01]] For-39 39. Not supported. Next. 1047. 1048. 1049. 1050. 1051. 47th needs to be done. Please, Sidorovich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u101	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Well, colleagues, here's an example of the illogicality of the terms we use in the Procedural Code. Unfortunately, a number of our amendments have been said that instead of the term "the court order of the cassation facility" we have to use the notion of "court decisions of the court of the cassation" because we are broader. This amendment was not supported. At the same time, even the initiator of the bill itself in article 355 uses the following notion of "court decisions of the court of cassation and the order of their adoption." So this is illogical, but even this definition of the article does not fully reveal it. So we suggest that we replace by words the order for court decisions by a court of cassation. It's only once that I pay attention to illogicality in terms. Here we use the notion of "court decisions of the court of cassation" and here we no longer use it in another city, we only use the concept of judgements.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u102	1047. Vote. [[11:48:36]] For-35 35 votes. Not supported. 1048. 1049. Don't insist. 1050. Don't insist. 1052. 1053. 1056. 1057. Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u103	Amendment 1057. Amendment 1057 refers to 356 articles of the Code of Administrative Justice, which is the content of the ruling of the Court of Cassation. Again, depending on what we're going to put in this article, we're going to get such a high-quality and complete court decision on the case. Therefore, we believe that in article 356 we need to complete a new part of the third sentence: "The order of the court of a cassation institution shall be declared in accordance with the rules laid down in Chapter 9 of Chapter I of this Code, taking into account the features of this chapter." Without this point, judges will have to determine in what order and, more faithfully, what should be contained in such a ruling by the court of the cassation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u104	Please, 1057. Voting, voting. [[11:50:06]] For-36 Not supported. Next. 1058. 1060. 1058. Sidorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u105	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Amendment 1058 refers to a very important block in the court of a cassation facility. We would like to add a new article 356 with the symbol 1 of the following content: "Obligability of the instructions contained in the decision of the court of the cassation facility. It's number one. The instructions contained in the court of cassation are binding on the court of the first and appeal in the new proceedings. Item two. The ruling of the court of cassation may not contain instructions to the court of the first, or the appellate body of authenticity, or the inaccuracy of whether or not there is any other evidence of the advantages of one evidence over another, of which the norm of material law should be applied, and of what decision should be taken as a result of such a case." This is a very important thing, because otherwise these instructions, which should actually be a matter for re-examination, will not be understood, can the court indicate whether there should be a solution to the case or not. If the court of a cassation can decide, it has a dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u106	Vote 1057. [[11:51:40]] For-37 Not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u107	1064. Odarchenko, please. 1069. 1073. 1084. 1067. Please, Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u108	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Amendment 1067. We believe that in article 361 of the Code of Administrative Justice it is necessary to add a sixth part of the following content: "A person has no right to review a court decision in relation to the constitutional court established by the Ukrainian Constitutional Court of the law of another legal act or its separate position applied by the court in the matter, if such unconstitutionality has been established on the basis of the outcome of the examination of the person's case for a violation of the terms laid down by the Constitutional Court Act." Colleagues, this is a very important thing. Now I'm asking you, citizens, listen to what I'm saying. If we're allowed to review the court's decisions taken as a result of a decision of the Constitutional Court that resumed the term, we're going to be able to re-ride and falsify the decisions that were made 10 years ago, 20 years ago. We're ruining the principle of legal certainty, and I've been stressing this at the Council meeting on judicial reform, and I'm talking about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u109	1067. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:53:26]] For-36 The decision is not made. 1190. 1092. 1095. 1098. 1096, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u110	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. We raise a very important topic in this direction, in our view, this is a situation of so-called collective irresponsibility. This is when a court obliges a college body to consider a matter, but it simply ignores the court because it is impossible to punish anyone. When a person in charge may be required to report the execution of a court’s decision and fine the court’s refusal to do so. We suggest that in cases where the respondent is a collegiate body, the court should be required to report to all members of the body. By allowing each of them to explain why he does not vote in favor of a certain matter or ignores a court decision. At present, it is very common for a court to decide on the illegality of the actions of certain councils or executions. But it can never be implemented because these collective bodies are always covered in collective irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u111	1096. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:55:06]] For-28 The decision is not made. Now Sidorovich, then Vlasenko. Please, Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u112	Rusla Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Amendment 1097. This is article 363 of the Code of Administrative Justice, the order and the time period for filing an application for review of a court decision under newly declared or exclusive circumstances. I remind you of the exceptional circumstances are those that are based on either a decision of the Constitutional Court or a decision of the European Court of Human Rights. The clarity of the procedure is very important in this case, so we believe that it is necessary to add paragraph 1 of Part Two to it, more faithfully, to make it available in the following edition "on the basis of paragraph 1 of Part Two and paragraph 1 of Part Three of Part Three of Article 361 of this Code no later than three years from the date of the taking of such judicial decisions by legal force, because that ten-year term, which is set there by the Constitutional Court, is absolutely unfounded. We don't have to wait for the Constitutional Court to deal with cases in an inexplicable amount of time, three years is just enough time to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u113	1076. Please be sure. [[11:56:38]] For-31 The decision is not made. 1100. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, I ask that you place 1100 for confirmation. I am convinced that the chairman of the committee will call for a unification and support by his vote of 226 votes, since the committee has accepted the amendment. But I would like to remind you that this amendment only came about because, in my opinion, the author of the law, Poroshenko, has enacted this law, bringing together a number of procedural codes and a series of laws. This is the first time. And secondly, I want to remind everyone that in Ukraine's history, there was only one case where the entry into force of the laws involved some publications, and this tradition is sad, in the paws of tradition, but really sad, was initiated by Yanukovich and Pshonka, when it depends on whether the Amnesty Act comes into force for people who participated in Maidan. So once again, I've been talking about it, I can only repeat it, I'm calling on the son of Pshonka to vote for it. Who thinks you're the son of Pigs? Vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u115	Don't use that terminology, because we're going to say who's voting against it, and we're going to call it different words, "the grandchildren of Putin" and all that. You don't need that terminology. Colleagues, I'm betting 1,100 on confirmation. Please vote. Anyone who supports the committee, please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u116	Please be supportive. [[11:58:20]] For-21
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u117	The decision is not made. We didn't make it. Colleagues, I'm warning you, I'm going on for 15 minutes. And now 1103, 1105, 1109, 1112, 1113, 1115, 1118, 1123, 1129, 1136. [[B in m in s a l in]] 1 – Alexeyev. 2 is a lube. Don't insist. 7-don't insist. 9 doesn't insist. 12. 12, please, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u118	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, cases of corruption offences are extremely important, but the existing Code of Administrative Offences does not allow these matters to be handled properly. One problem here is that there is no cassation of cases, and therefore there is not a single practice in considering them, nor in completing the process. Corruption often buys local and appeal courts, escapes responsibility. Therefore, we suggest that the right of cassation be provided for in cases of corruption offences both by the prosecutor and by the defence. Please support our revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u119	12th, please vote. [[12:00:15]] For-28 The decision is not made. 24th. Don't insist. 37th. Don't insist. 27th. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u120	Thank you, Your Honor Andrey Volodymyrovich. It's about what we're talking about. in this amendment, which we are offered: to introduce a new article of the Criminal Code 400 with the badge 1 "Representation in a Court Without Power", and in particular to propose criminal liability for lawyers in the event of a lawyer not submitting information on the limitation of the powers imposed by the treaty. Well, I think it's already going through some healthy and intelligent boundaries. If anyone saw a lawyer's warrant, well, first of all, he might not have anticipated that many of the warnings mentioned in the contracts are one thing. The other one. This makes it possible to interpret this norm arbitrarily. Because if a lawyer didn't put a word in there, or a lawyer didn't say one word in terms of limitations, or the restrictions were oral, and the client said to the lawyer that you couldn't do it and that, and the lawyer didn't put it in the warrant, that's criminal responsibility. People, what are we doing? What are we doing? I think that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u121	I'll bet on the 27th vote, please. [[12:01:51]] For-33 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I repeat, I have resumed the meeting for 15 minutes. And there's going to be time and time and time and time of questioning, and hour of speaking from the deputies, and we're totally going in at the time that we're supposed to. 47. Don't insist. 28? Yeah, yeah, it's 28. Please, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, I want to support colleague Vlasenko. It's absolutely a raised subject and our revision refers to the same thing. The introduction of a new crime — representation before a court without authorization — is an entirely overly severe measure of influence on a person. Read the brochure: If a lawyer forgets to place all restrictions on his authority, he may be sent to a prison for six months, even if he has not. Instead of criminal responsibility, we suggest that we apply both administrative and disciplinary. For a lawyer to lose his license is also a very serious restriction and, in our opinion, that's quite enough. You offer your money to further intimidate lawyers and create conditions for them to be in court also subject to the general process in which you try to put all Ukrainians -- obedience to.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u123	28th, please identify yourself. [[12:03:40]] For-27 The decision is not made. We're going back. 47th, 48th. 48th. Please, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u124	Thank you. 48 amendment, it refers to the very moment that we already stressed yesterday when we were considering the Code of Administrative Justice, which is about creating, more specifically, the provision of automated distribution of judges, in fact, there is no in any court. Now we're looking at a different process, but, nevertheless, it's just a guarantee that there will be unbiased justice, a guarantee that the selection of judges will take place under the principles of independent selection by an automated system without actually interfering with the human factor. And that includes an anticorruption guarantee that allows a person to actually expect that his case is handled by a judge who is virtually inviolable to his rights and interests and will consider it entirely objectively. So please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u125	48 amendments, please specify. [[12:05:05]] For-25 The decision is not made. 53rd, 54th, 5. I'm reading it. 53rd. Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u126	Thank you. 53 revisions. It refers to the fact that the Self-Help faction, we've already stressed this, not only in this process, but we don't support the creation of permanent chambers. Because the creation of permanent chambers is nothing more than a corruption risk, it is actually a moment when justice is much more complicated by what is already a practice, certain judges who know in advance how and in what format they will make decisions. It's a big corruption risk. So we insist that this institution of permanent chambers should be taken out of all procedural codes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u127	53rd. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:06:15]] For-22. The decision is not made. 54th. 55th. 57th. 54th, right? Please, Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u128	Yes. Thank you. 54th amendment, the same 55th and the same 56th. I'm going to use one minute, but that's exactly what's going on. Again. We do not agree with the creation of a united chamber. I'm talking to the chairman right now, the committee. And I'm asking you very much, if we want to speak some consensus and create really active, working formats, create a really impartial court, please listen, we're against this format, because it's a corrupt risk, first. Second, it forms the principle of prejudice. And it is he who determines that practice is unsettled, and it is subjective, formed by the same judges. And in fact, you're totally nullifying the principle of automatic distribution of judges during the trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u129	Thank you. So 54th amendment. Please make up your mind. [[12:07:41]] For-24 The decision is not made. 55th. Please make up your mind. [[12:07:56]] For-25 The decision is not made. 56th. Please make up your mind. [[12:08:11]] For-25 The decision is not made. 57th, Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u130	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. 57th Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Code. We suggest that we do not limit the order of handling cases under new and exceptional circumstances, including those relating to the terms of this review and leave the quantitative order, to leave an active order regarding the number of court compositions when reviewing decisions under newly declared exceptional circumstances. Appropriately, the composition should correspond to the composition to which the decision was made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u131	Thank you. 57th, please identify yourself. [[12:09:06]] For-25 The decision is not taken. 68th. Vlasenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u132	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. This amendment applies to two things. Well, first of all, there's a global question, it's a question of whether this codex or these codes left an approach that Victor Janukovic introduced to the jury. In fact, they are not the jury mentioned in this codex. They're called "attractive" in a lawyer's jargon, not jury. So we have to move away from this notion of "jury" when the case is heard by three judges and two jurors, listen together, I emphasize once again, no jury. We have to move on to the classic model of the jury when there are 12 people. But then they are chosen not in the way they are now offered. So I agree that this is a different, conceptually different approach. I agree with the head of the committee who talks about it. Yeah, that's another conceptual approach. And we should introduce it by real reforming the criminal process. So Amendment 68 says that we need to rule out the jury distribution as proposed and move on to normal jury work as it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u133	68th. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:10:32]] For-23 The decision is not taken. 72nd. Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u134	Thank you. 72 the amendment refers to, we're talking about a single court information and telecommunications system and what addresses and data are provided there. We suggest adding to the list that exists today: lawyers, notaries, private arbitrators, even more logically, investigators, prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u135	72-a, please identify yourself. [[12:11:19]] For-25 The decision is not taken. 78th, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u136	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. The committee suggests that the position on the single judicial information and telecommunications system was approved by the Higher Council of Justice. The Supreme Council of Justice, I'm sorry, for filing with the State Judicial Administration. Perhaps in a theory in a civilized country like Germany, that would be the right decision. But unfortunately, we live in the Ukrainian realities in which the author of this bill, Poroshenko, usurps power, including in the Supreme Council of Justice. Today, the Higher Council of Justice is made up of most people who are fully controlled by the Dust. Totally. Politically, legally, whatever. Therefore, to date, the transfer of approval of the position on the Supreme Council of Justice's sole judicial system is the same as the transfer of it for approval to Dustenkov himself. And then I propose that it be approved by the Supreme Council, yes, by agreement with the Supreme Council of Justice and the judiciary.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u137	78th, please be sure. [[12:12:36]] For-23 The decision is not taken. It's the '80s. 87th. Please, Vlasenko. I'll give it to you after Vlasenko. 87th, then 82nd, Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u138	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Once again, this is a question of permanent colleagues, and we've talked about it over and over again. The committee suggests that the personal composition of permanent colleges of judges is determined by the congregations of judges of the relevant court. In fact, it's a conceptually wrong approach. We think that even if we're talking about permanent colleges, we're against it, but even if we talk about them, the composition of permanent colleges should be formed by this one single judicial information and telecommunications system, based on the principle of arbitrary choice. Not that the judges in the congregations themselves talked, in which warehouses they would listen to the cases, and then they themselves would confirm it. This is conceptually wrong; this reduces the possibility of creating an independent, objective court composition and an open mind, which is the main thing. Because if judges appoint themselves in college, of course they will do so on the subjective basis, not on objective criteria, and subjectiveism will predominate what is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u139	87th. Please make up your mind. [[12:14:07]] For-27 The decision is not taken. 82nd. Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u140	82nd and 85th right away, because they're connected and once again they're related to permanent colleagues. I'll draw your attention to the fact that, unlike other codes that we've already considered, the Civil Procedural, the Master's Trial, at least that's where the alternate judges were scheduled. For the Criminal Procedural Code there is no such thing. And we have this situation where in permanent colleges, right in the criminal process, there might be a moment when the judge is away, and there's no way. And then, in manual mode, you'll actually appoint this judge who's missing in college. That's why it's even more, except that in itself a permanent college is a corrupt risk, but this assignment instead of a third judge's stand-in, it's also a corruption risk. And in general, the fact that there are always two judges in the permanent college who remain, they're unchanged, and only one judge changes, it's a terrible corrupt risk of prejudice and a pre-trial solution to one or the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u141	82nd. Please make up your mind. [[12:15:34]] For-24 The decision is not taken. And 85th, please identify yourself. And now we're going to decide which amendment we're going to stop at. Well, who's the next reporter? [[12:15:50]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Which one? 89th, right? So let's stop at. You're insisting on her, aren't you? Then it's 89. And we're going to start the next review of Amendment 89. Reporter - Vlasenko. So, colleagues, I now declare a 30-minute recess under the Rules. And I want to stress, from 12:45 to 13:15 there will be a reading of the questions, and from 13:15 to 14:15 there will be speeches by the national deputies, as provided for by the Rules. And so, colleagues, at 12:45, please return to the interrogation room, the most important part of our agenda. Everyone please be disciplined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, let's continue our work. And we are moving, as the Head of the Supreme Council has announced, to the question of the people's deputies who have arrived at this time. 276 requests registered. We'll try to publish in half an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u143	From 13:15, as the speaker announced. Now you're taking my time. Thus, according to the Rules, 30 minutes on Friday is used to announce requests. And please don't take my time. So we asked questions from: Mikoli Fedoruk to the minister of internal affairs of Ukraine, in charge of the head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, for the use of measures to halt illegal economic activity. Andrija Šinkovič and Alexander Gerega were under the temporary responsibility of the Head of State Environmental Inspection of Ukraine on the environmental problem caused by discharges from the clearings into the River Svet, located on the Krasilov - Drasilovy - Zastava section of the Hmelnitsk district. Mr. Andrija Šinkovič and Mr. Alexander Gerega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Hmelnicka observatories for the support and support of the financing of the establishment of a multi-professional Regional Centre for Vocational Education based on the Krasilov Professional List, the Hmelnicki District. Vadim Novinsky to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the illegal seizure of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church's religious structure, the use of physical violence against the UCP priest and the inaction of the law enforcement authorities and the leadership of the Ivano-Frankov region. Victor Ostapchuk to the State Migration Service for the number of people who emigrated abroad to a permanent residence. Vadim Novinski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal appointment of the Acting Director-General of the National Kyevo-Pecher Historical and Cultural Reserve and the collapse of competitive selection. Viktor Razwadowski, under the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, heads of the Zitomir District Administration for the provision of child mental health services at the Žitomir District Psychiatric Hospital No. 1 with video equipment, office equipment, air conditioning, and computer technology. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district government for the repair of the road from the village of Bilka to the village of Zalužne Romanovska district, Žitomir district. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the National Commission for State Regulation in the Field of Financial Services Markets concerning the violation of insurance legislation. Jacob Besbach to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the improper conduct of criminal investigations. John Rybak to the head of the Chernobyl District Administration, the head of the Kitzman regime of the Chernobyl area for the restoration of the Kitzman-Nepolokowitsi bus route through the village of Orshovci in the Kitzman region of the Chernivets region. John Rybak to the head of the Chernobyl District Council, the head of the Chernobyl Observatories for co-financing for the acquisition of a school bus for the Shepita School of Education, I-III, took the village of Shepit of the Czernovets region. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, for the restoration of the military cemetery and the establishment of a memorial for the fighters of the Ukrainian Galician army in Sambora of Lviv region until the century of the formation of the Western Ukrainian People's Republic. Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Commission for State regulation in the fields of energy and municipal services for the cessation of baseless financial burdens on consumers of natural gas in Lvivščina. Michael Bondar, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on State support for coal companies to partially cover costs of finished coal production in 2018. Mikhail Bondar to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Department of Roads of Ukraine for the listing of roads that are being repaired at the expense of the state budget in 2018, within the Busko, Radehivsky, Kamyanka-Buzkik, Brodiv region of Lviv. John Melnichuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Infrastructure for the provision of disabled persons with reduced mobility vehicles with special equipment for transport. John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Health for Change (Additions) in the Register of Medical Devices, the cost of which is reimbursed under the "Affordable Medicines" program. Mikoli Lušnjak to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the payment of one-time cash assistance to the parents of the deceased military officer Guzala in Afghanistan. Mr. Vasil Janickov to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure in charge of the Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic, Head of the Revenna District Government on the catastrophic state of road traffic overall use P76 CAT Examples - Yearly Dubrovica. Vassil Janicky, until the temporary duty of Minister of Health, Naz’s chief physician. The Ohmatdit Children's Hospital of Ukraine, head of the Plain State Administration, on the issue of financial security for children in need of bone marrow transplantation. Romana Macola to Prime Minister, Minister of Internal Affairs for the completion of the construction of a building for the service housing of the Shepetov Police Department of HUNP in the Hmelnicki district. Romana Macola under the executive responsibility of the head of the government of the Ukrainian Railway Association for the restoration of the stop of the passenger train of Kiev-Johno-Frankivsk at Slavuta-1 Station. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate amendment to the Schedule of Assignments of the State Budget for the award of the grant to the Pavlovska OTG Volin Region for the purpose of using the funds for the current repair of roads. Igor Goose to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the first deputy head of the State Fiscal Service on the need to amend certain laws of Ukraine regarding restrictions on the consumption of beer, alcohol, soft drinks, table wine and tobacco. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister for the restoration of part of the excise tax on fuel and excise taxes imported into the customs territory of Ukraine to the local budgets. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, on the need to allocate funds (subsidies) from the State budget of Ukraine for the purchase of a road vehicle of a combined type of MDCD for the communal needs of the city of Taroz Kyiv region. Sergia Soboljeva to the Prime Minister on the rapid deterioration of the performance of the state-owned enterprise "Berdan Sea Trade Port" and the need for immediate action to prevent port bankruptcy. Sergia Soboljeva to Henprocuror, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the need for an immediate renewal of the international search for the prison "criminal watcher" Eugene Anishimov, the involvement in criminal responsibility of the judge, who ruled that this person was at large, and of Ukrainian law enforcement officials whose international search was halted. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister for the non-derogation of the population of the Suma region from gas supply. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister, Head of the President's Administration, for the necessary measures to be taken to build the Mihailovska Zelina Nature Reserve, located in the Labedin and Nedrigail district of the Suma region. Dmitri Andriewsky to the Prime Minister for the protection of the rights and freedoms of disabled persons, children with disabilities and persons with disabilities from childhood. Sergey Ljowczyn to the Prime Minister on the deepening of the crisis in the industrial sector. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to amend the current Ukrainian legislation on administrative offences. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Social Policy for change in the order of implementation of decisions on the collection of public and local budgets or debtors, approved by Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decree No. 845 of August 2017. Groups of National Deputies (Lucenco, Yatzenka others) to the Prime Minister on the need for urgent measures to ensure the development of a state-wide funding programme for children's treatment. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister for the reinstatement of pension rights for pensioners of the State Service. Olesia Long to the Acting Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the legislative settlement of the issue of crypto-Currency. Vladimir Gusak to head of the Donetsk Regional Military and Civil Administration for information on the implementation of the capital renovation of the Municipal Building of the "Volnova Public Education School No. 5" level of the Volnova District Council of the Donetsk Region. Sergija Matvienkova to the Minister of Infrastructure on the urgent repair of Zaporozhye-Mariupol-Berdjansk road. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister on the unsatisfactory work of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine in preparation for the 2017-2018 epidemic season. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister for non-compliance with the requirements of current legislation in part of the recalculation and payment of pensions to veterans and pensioners of internal affairs bodies. Olesia Long to the head of the Kirovograd Observance for Road Finance in the Kirovograd Region. Irina Konstankevich to Henprocuror, a temporary duty of Ukrainian Health Minister to verify the organization of vaccine purchases, and to provide preventive health care. Irina Konstanovic to Henprokuror Ukraine on the cessation of the hot diet of children who suffered from an accident at CHAES in the Manevicki district of Volinsk. Alexander Gerega to the Prime Minister, head of the Antimonopoly Committee on the Establishment of a Clear Mechanism for the Implementation of the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Hostiles. Alexander Guerrega, head of the Ukrainian State Security Service, on the issue of non-compliance with the requirements of effective legislation when conducting competitive meetings on the distribution of bus routes. Yurya Pavlenko to the Prime Minister for the financing of the reconstruction of the Kodnian U.S.I.I. graduated from the Žitomir region of the Žitomir region. Groups of National Deputies (Romanov, Doubenka others) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Henprocurorate, on overcoming obstacles to the transfer of dental equipment for the treatment of fighters in the ATO zone. Anna Romanov to Home Secretary, Director of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, Henprosecutor for the Death Fire at the Victoria Children's Camp in Odessa. Sergey Kiwalova to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the Protection of the Rights and Legal Interests of Ukrainian Citizen Novičkova Andrija Alexandrovich, who is unjustifiably under investigation in the Islamic Republic of Iran. Vadim Podobraznjak to the Prime Minister for the conduct of calculations with a municipal company called the First-Major City Water Channel. Vladislav Golub to the Prime Minister, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Attorney-General on the possible service floor during a non-planned audit by employees of the Office of the North Office of the Ministry in the Cherkas region of the PRAT "Borispolska Combined Building Materials". Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister, the Government Commissioner for the European Court of Human Rights, the Minister of Justice, the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the mass violation of the constitutional rights of citizens in the long-term failure of the national courts of Ukraine and the European Court of Human Rights. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister, President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Prosecutor-General for the Abuse of Service by the Administration of the Institute of Pigry and Agricultural Production of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine, their violation of the Sanitary Rules in the forests of Ukraine in an attempt to carry out the sanitary cutting of forest plants, which caused massive protests by residents of the territorial communities. Vladislava Golub to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office for the Investigation of Criminal Matters in relation to the former UDP leadership "Ukrichmtransamak". Vitalia Chapinoga to the Lviv City Head, director of Lviv Municipal Enterprise Lvivtodor, for an open hearing on the case of administrative misconduct and the prosecution of responsibility until release. Vitalia Chapinoga to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the cruel treatment of an animal and the invocation of responsibility. Eugene Dejai to the Attorney General on the violation of laws by owners and the management of the KADORR Group building company. Dmitri Schenchev to the Head of Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine on the non-execution by the Pension Fund of Ukraine of the decision of the Court of Recalculation and Disability Pensions in accordance with articles 50, 54, 67 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Grigoria Timesa to the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine on the provision of information on the implementation of the State Programme in 2017 from the reproduction of the culture of national minorities, the Ukrainian World Coordinating Council, the implementation of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minorities, the establishment of cultural links with the Ukrainian diaspora, the strengthening of ties between Ukrainians and Ukraine and the provision of international activities in the area of international relations. Gregory Times to the Prime Minister for the unsatisfactory work of the head of the Montenegrin District Administration, Alexander Fitchuk, to ensure that road repairs are carried out in the area at the expense of the district budget as a result of the implementation of the Customs Experiment from the financial provision of measures for the development of road routes for general use and the need for verification of the efficiency of the funds recorded. Ruslan Solvar to Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure, acting as Head of the State of Motorways to accelerate the allocation of funds in 2017 for the repair of the pavement on the local road of O100211 Sidori-Drozdy-Shamraivka within the village of Velikopolovecke and the establishment of a public transport stop at 31+186 on the right of road T-10-13. Sergia Dunaev to the Attorney General on the illegal actions of the CCW investigator, the first investigation department of the Office of the Prosecutor of the Donetsk Region of Lewandowski during the search. Sergia Dunayeva to the Prime Minister, head of the Lugansk Authority for the preparation for the heating season of the state-owned company Severodonetské hot electric power plant. Sergija Leschchenka to the Prime Minister for a possible violation of the deadlines for the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine's financial plan, “Ukkrimtrasamak”. Sergey Leschchenka to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the alleged illegal involvement of Ukrainian security officers in the economic activities of TOV "Two Agro Ukraine". Yuri Boyka and Yuri Pavlenko to the Prime Minister, the heads of the BSC, the Henprocurator on systemic obstacles to investors and the pressures of small and medium-sized businesses in Ukraine. Vasil Guljava to the Prime Minister for the restoration of the operation of the state-owned VAT business. Alexia Lensky, under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health, to review the National List of Main Medical Devices and to include the necessary medicines registered in Ukraine for use in health care facilities according to medical records, and to use appropriate response measures. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister on the use of response measures to address the issue of partial exemption from taxation by the customs of personal means of transport and the establishment of a fair payment for their temporary importation into the customs territory of Ukraine by resident citizens and the provision of information on the reasons for the detention at the border of 350 ambulances donated by the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Mikhail Papiev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the activities of the gas intermediary Naftogaz Trading Europe S. A.".. Dmitry Kolesnikov, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, Director of the State Enterprise "Ukrainian Legal Information", editor-in-chief of the newspaper "Governmental Courier" to block the entry into force of the Order for the Protection of the Population against the Harmful Effects of Asbestos. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the environmental situation in Ukraine. Mr. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the violation of the rights of employees of the Ministry of Human Rights of the Police Department of the Ministry of Human Rights in the Chernigiv region. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the State Prize, the Order for Courage of Soft Alexia Mikolaiovich, disabled by war of the 1st group. Igor Kotwiecki to the Prime Minister for information on financing measures against cyber attacks on information infrastructure objects in Ukraine. Mikoli Palamarchuk and Victor Krivenk to Henprocuror for improper support of state charges. Mikoli Palamarchuk to Henprocuror for bringing the prosecutor of Kyiv’s local prosecutor No. 10 Roslik Andrija to disciplinary responsibility. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of getting a scooter “W4028 CRUISER II” with the disability of the second group of general disease. Vladimir Lithuania to the Prime Minister for the housing of a group II war invalid. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister, Minister of Culture, Minister of Justice, Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, on the implementation of measures to address the situation that took place in the competitive election of the Directors of National and State Reserves. Oleg Osuhovski to Minister of Interior, Minister of Justice, Head of the Security Service, Henprocuror, Head of the Zaporozhi Observatories for taking action to restore the business. Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister, Kiev City Head, Minister of Finance, on the need to organize the proper work of implementing State budget subsidies for the socio-economic development of individual territories. Anatolia Denisenka is under the temporary responsibility of the minister of health to ensure that patients with diabetes are provided with insulin free of charge, especially in Kharkiv. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Justice on the need to strengthen control over the execution of court decisions by private executives. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister on the need to take urgent steps to restore the work of the Svejerodonetske TEC in order to ensure that the autumn-winter period 2017–2018 in the city of Svejerodonetsk Lugansk is properly prepared and maintained. Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister on the need for urgent measures to restore gas to the village of Krimské Novoejdar region, the town-type village of Toshkovka and the village of the town-type Lower Pásně district of Lugansk, or to provide State support for the introduction of alternative energy systems. Dmitri Dobrodomov to Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Prosecutor of the Vinnitsk Region, Head of the National Police in the Vinnitsk Region for the use of measures to halt the illegal use of 72 hectares of historical and archaeological and important lands of Ukraine, where there are remnants of settlements of Tripoli and Chernykhiv cultures that have been illegally sown by agrarian crops that have damaged the historical heritage of the Nemirov region of the Winnitsky region for several years. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Prosecutor of the Vinnitsk Region, the Chief of the National Police in the Vinnitsk Region, for the purposeless use of budgetary resources in a particularly large amount and for the acquisition, destruction or occupation of property by the administration of the State Historical and Cultural Reserve in the village of Bush of the Yampil district of Winnitsky. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister on urgent measures to address the problems of the wine-growing sector in Ukraine. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Odessa Observatory for immediate measures to ensure quality drinking water for the citizens of the city of Bolgrad and the region of Bolgrad. Jaroslava Markevich to the Prime Minister on the development of a mechanism for the implementation of the rule of law. Jaroslava Markevich is in charge of the head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service for the violation of the rights of a citizen by officials of the Dnipropetrov Customs of the DFS. Sergey Kaplina to the Minister of Education on the need for the Ministry of Education to prohibit the collection of charitable contributions from the parents of students in public schools. Groups of National Deputies (Lapina and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Head of the National Police, the Henprosecutor for the conduct of a review of the possible commission of corruption by the head of the Volin District Council of the Igor Police and the submission of relevant information to the GDR. Igor Lapin to the Secretary of Defense for violation of military service contracts. Victor Krivenk to the Prime Minister for the delay in payment to the limited liability of ABI UKRAINE for the provision of licensed software to executive authorities in 2013. Olga Bogolitz, pending the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health regarding the inefficient use of budget funds by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Alexander Brigintz to the head of the Ternopil Arch for the settlement of the issue of the transfer of farm buildings and land to the property of the Basilian Fathers Monastery of the Most Holy Savior of Ukraine of St. John the Baptist of the UCC in the village of Krasnopust of the Berežan district of Ternopil. Jury Levchenka to the Prime Minister for failure to comply with the legal requirements of the Ukrainian national deputy and the decision of the court. Jury Lewchenk is under the executive responsibility of the head of the government of the Ukrainian Railway Association of Public Shareholders for the safe operation of the territory under the railway line of the Kiev City Power Plant. Alexander Kirsza to Kharkiv city head for repairing the Lugansk road in Kharkiv. Alexander Kirsza to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Service of Ukraine on matters of geodesy, cartography, and cadastre for contributing to the participation of ATO participants in the agricultural sector. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Ternopil Authority for the payment of salaries to medical personnel in the Ternopil region. Mikhail Golka to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Henprocuror, on the investigation into the deliberate murder of a resident of the village of Stari Bezradiči of the Obuhov district of Kyiv district of Gorbakenka. Dmitry Linka to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Security Service, the Henprosecutor for the violation of the laws of owners and the management of the KADORR Group building company. Oleg Petrenk to Henprokuror, Nazpolice, Ukrainian State Service on Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, Democratic Inspectorate of Ukraine, Cerkas Oblast, Cerkas Observatories on the Legality of the Issue of the State Act on Land. Sergey Vlasenka to the Head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine on the extermination of documents that confirm corruption in the NAC system Naftogaz Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Galchenka and others) to the Kyiv District State Administration concerning the illegal transfer of land to the village of Krukovščina in the Kyiv region. Vladimir Parasuka to Henprocuror, First Deputy Head of State Fiscal Service, temporarily acting Head of State Environmental Inspectorate on the possible illegal transfer to private property of the "Livivovski district fishing combine" of the natural water supply "Janjski Stav" located in the village of the city type Ivano-Frankov Yavorovski district of Lviv district, as well as the possible failure to pay taxes for the land area located in the inhabited area and taxes on water provided for the production of fish production. Vladimir Parasuka to Minister of Infrastructure in charge of the Head of the State Road Agency, Head of the Lviv Observatories for the repair of road C142033 Lozino-Birka (Jasniska). Jury Timoshenko to the Head of Ukraine’s Supreme Court for the consideration of civil and criminal cases in connection with the examination of a cassation complaint. Jury Timoshenko to the Prime Minister for possible violations by the State Service Department of Labour in the Ivano-Frankow region. Sergey Rudika to the head of the Cherkas Oblast, head of the Cherkas Observatories, for immediate action in connection with the financial provision of compensation for the indemnity of the rail freight transport of the citizens' categories. Sergey Rudika to the head of the Cherkas Archdiocese on the results of the work of the temporary control commission of the Cherkas District Council to verify the state of use of the funds involved from the state and local budgets for the repair of roads of state importance. Irina Suslowy to Henprocuror, a temporary minister of health, the chief physician of the Jewish Central District Hospital, for bringing the guilty to justice in connection with the improper performance of the medical staff of the Jewish CRL of their professional duties, which led to the death of Kulak. Andrea Kota to Minister of Infrastructure, acting as Head of State of the Ukrainian Motorways Authority for the construction of a new bridge in the village of Zaliska in the Jewish region of Lviv. Oleg Kulinić is under the temporary responsibility of the minister of health to provide treatment abroad. Oleg Kulinić to the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Pension Fund to provide legal and social guarantees for the family of the dead ATO participant. Tarasa Batenka to the Prime Minister on ensuring the right of citizens to privatize the land and to make appropriate changes to the Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 413 of 7 June 2017. People’s Deputies — Batenka, Others to the Minister of Education and Science on the settlement of the issue of higher cost of living in student dormitories of the Lviv Institute of State Higher Education Institute "University of Banking". Paul Kishkar to the Head of the SBU, the Henprocuror of the investigation into the facts of the fictitious accidents in Pat Zaporozhaz. Paul Kishkar to Kabmin on the acceptance of the Sanction Plan of the Open Shareholders Association of the Herson cotton combination. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Education and Science, head of Kharkiv District State Administration, Kharkiv City Head on the results of the work carried out in reconfiguration of educational institutions for children with special needs. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Ecology, temporarily acting as head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, to comply with the requirements of environmental legislation in the work of the PRAT "Harkiv Cox Plant". Sergey Labazuk to the Cabinet of Ministers, Minister of Social Policy, temporarily acting as Minister of Health to resolve the issue of extending the list of medicines under the "Affordable Medicines" program. Andrew Illenka to Henprocuror to investigate the beating of a deputy of the Kyiv City Council of Vladimir Nazarenko. Andrea Illenka to the Head of the Security Service, the Head of the High Council of Justice, Henprocuror of Ukraine for a proper trial and for a judicial review of the facts of anti-State action on 2 May 2014 in the city of Odessa. Valentina Didić to the Minister of Home Affairs, the Attorney General, on the situation in Marganca Dnipropetrovsk region regarding the collapse of the heating season 2016-2017 and the projected heat breakdown in the village of Marganca in the next heating season 2017-2018. Ruslana Demczak until the temporary duty of the minister of health to expand the number of basic medical devices. Ruslan Demczak to the Deputy Prime Minister of Regional Development for the development of a system for the transfer of objects of shared municipal property of budgetary institutions that are on the balance sheet of district councils to the communal property of the united territorial communities. Jaroslava Dubnević to head the State Security Service of Ukraine for the conduct of a road survey of Lviv’s motorways. Jaroslava Dubnevic to Minister of Agriculture Policy, Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with the requirements of the law. Borislav Bereza to the head of the National Police on the inaction of officials of the municipal enterprise Kyivbluster. Borislav Bereza to Henprocuror regarding the inaction of officials of Odessa’s law enforcement agencies Igor Popov to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine regarding the conduct of a background check on the conflict of interests and corruption in the management of the Volin District Council. Vitalia Stasuka to the first deputy head of the State Fiscal Service for the cessation of the practice of unwarranted inclusion of all, without exception, of farm buildings located on the land of the garden fence, into the tax base on real estate taxes. Yurya Berezi to the Chief of Staff - Chief of the Armed Forces on the need to resolve the issue of the provision of military-field mail to the 2254 U.S.S.U.S.A. duly documented documents at the request of the Chaplin District Employment Center (Herson Region) and the submission of electronic reporting to the State Register of Stately Compulsory State Social Insurance. Jury Bereza to the head of the Police Department in Poltavsk district on the wrongdoing of John Knish, which caused damage to Svetlani Ryabchun’s property. Groups of National Deputies (Biloz, Saurasov and others) to the Prime Minister for the protection of the pension rights of ATO participants, U.S.S. military personnel, other military formations, police officers who have no information in the system of personalized calculation of the general government pension scheme. Groups of National Deputies (Biloz, Saurasov and others) to the Prime Minister on a comprehensive settlement of the implementation of the right to travel by ATO participants free of charge. Igor Alekseieva to the head of the Ukrainian State Judicial Administration for the provision of forensic statistics on criminal conduct on the basis of a reconciliation agreement. Colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room. In three minutes, we'll be doing a recording on "Rizzne." I ask all my colleagues to return to the hall. [[Applause]] We're not in the theater, we're not in the circus, we don't have to applaud. Igor Alekseieva to the head of the State Judicial Administration for the provision of forensic statistics on criminal conduct on the basis of a reconciliation agreement. Roberta Gorvato to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of Directive 2014/45/EU on the guarantee of safe movement by means of national means of transport, both in Ukraine and within the EU, of mutual recognition of the results of tests on the feasibility of operation between EU Member States and Ukraine. Jury Derevjanka to the head of the State Border Service for the issuance of copies of documents, according to which the algorithm for the localization of non-standard (crisis) situations of military and bridge border personnel was applied on September 10, 2017, at a point of entry across the state border of Chegini. Jury of Derevyanka to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the illegal persecution and kidnapping of law enforcement officials who took part in actions near the crossing points across the state border of Ukraine "Segini" and "Krakovec". Victor Romanyuk to the Minister of Education for the non-admission of compulsory Russian education in general educational institutions. Victor Romanyuk to Henprocuror for the destruction by Russian Federation agents of the Ukrainian gas sector project component and the threat of Ukraine's energy independence. Edward Matthewchuk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, the Attorney - General, on the need for an objective review of the address of the resident of the Kyiv district of Odessa Irina Novikova. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice, the State Property Fund, the Odessa District Government, the Odessa City Council on the need to address the situation in connection with the implementation of the Ministry of Education order of July 3, 2017, No. 966, which provides for the liquidation of the Odessa Professional Panel of Technology and the design of the National Institute of National Education University of Ušinsk and the establishment of the Odessa National Vocational Training Institute of the Odessa Professional Charter of Technology and Design. The Group of Deputies (Buglaka, others) to the Prime Minister on the approximation of State funding for 2018 to establish the National Centre for Neurotravity and Neurorehabilitation. Andrija Shipka to the Minister of Social Policy for Retirement at the age of 55 for 30 years of work. Alexander Villukla to the Minister of Education, the President of the National Academy of Sciences, the President of the National Academy of Law, the President of the National Academy of Education, the President of the National Academy of Agrarian Sciences, the President of the Academy of Medical Sciences, the President of the National Academy of Arts of Ukraine to prevent the deterioration of the education and science system in order to obtain informed information on the need to increase funding for education and science in Derbydget for 2018. Yes. Paul Dzüblik to Henprocuror, Deputy Attorney General of the Military Prosecutor, for damages caused by violations of the requirements of environmental law. There's three questions left, I'll read them now, colleagues, and there'll be a recording on the cover of "Rizzle." I'd like to return to the session room. Paul Dzublik. to the Prime Minister for dealing with issues on the Corstoin-Kyiv electric train route. Valéria Pisarenko to Henprokuror, a temporarily acting minister of health for the purpose of conducting a thorough investigation into the causes of the death of a minor child and of bringing to justice those responsible. Mikli Kucher to the Minister of Interior, Head of the Board of Directors, Henprosecutor for the illegal actions that take place in the Wessel Rural Council of the Teplicki district of Winnicki district. Anton Yatzenka to the Prime Minister on the need to take urgent measures to address the issue of the constitutional rights of citizens by supplementing the National List of Main Medical Devices. Anton Yatzenka to the Prime Minister on the need to take urgent measures to ensure the financing of the Kiev Centre for Bone Brain Transplantation and the development of transplantation in Ukraine. Oleg Petrenko to the Director of the Department of State Architectural Inspection in the Odessa area of non-compliance with the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate in the Odessa region. And one last question. Valeria Babenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the illegal disposal of TOV's property, Kyivgazpromservis Production and Services Company, by CARS employees of Kiev Rescue Service. Just 30 minutes of work, 276 requests were made. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare, all of you, to return to the session room. And I'm going to post a different entry, and we're going to work exactly an hour. Please sign up. [[Unheard]] The system was not broken, although there were some sounds. First National MP. The People’s Deputy Moses is invited to the rostrum. Please give me your word. Instead of Musia, he's a national MP, Antonishtak. I've already announced, dear colleagues, we'll continue on schedule. Please, Mr. Antonishtak. And yet only those who are.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u144	Good day to the Ukrainian people! Good afternoon, fellow MPs! May I have your attention, please? Leo Valeriyovich, a moment of attention, because it's really important. The night before yesterday, a football match was held in Ivano-Frankowski, between "The Carpathian" and "The Carpathian" (Livov). And everything like that would be nothing if it wasn't for the wickedness of our lion hooligans. That's how it happened. That's not how I support them. But what the "ministers" did is not the police, it's not our Ukrainian police, it's not our Ukrainian police, it's our vote, it's our money. These are the mints, the legumes, that hit us in this way in 2013. What did they do instead of properly applying physical force, pushing away cowards, and then holding back, identifying? They were just 14 - to 16 - year - olds, taking a round - and - a - four, five - to - five (recorded, fixed, who did it) beating their feet, beating their heads, beating their backs, beating their legs. This was seen by Ukraine and this is now happening in Ukraine, in post-Majdan Ukraine in 2017. See, this place could have been my kids, I can't control where they're going, it could have been your kids. I condemn the fact that the Federsky football player was beaten, and I condemn what the fairies were throwing, and I condemn it, but it should have been the police in the right field, but I condemn the action of those mints that threw themselves at our children. I am addressing the Minister of Internal Affairs of Arsen Awakov, I am calling from this rostrum to Ulya Vitaliyovich Lucenka, the Attorney General of Ukraine, to give a legal assessment of those actions and, if necessary, to open a criminal case, to conduct an internal investigation, until the completion of an internal investigation by the Chief of Police of the Ivano-Frankow region, to remove the position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u145	The next one, please, Halasyuk, Yelensky, is six minutes away. Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Andrew. Andrew Illenko, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u146	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians, today, I would like to say a few words about the situation in Kiev, our capital city. Unfortunately, there are a lot of problems in our country right now, but the problem of illegal construction, the problem of built-up mafias in Kiev, is still very relevant, unfortunately. Today’s authority, led by the city’s head, Klick, is apparently incapable of solving this problem. And literally recently, there was a case where the deputy of the Kyiv City Council of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association, Vladimir Nazarenko, is an active contender with this forgetful mafia. There was an attack on 11 August on the construction of the "IL Patio" housing complex on 56 Rajodny Street, in the Dniprovi district of Kiev, and it was carried out by a contractor and related materials were transferred to the local prosecutor's office, but it fully sabotages the investigation. Today, as a national deputy, I was asked to have the Attorney General's Office look into this situation and stop sabotaging the local prosecutor's office in the investigation of this case, and there was a general order in this matter with this illegal forgetfulness. We see that this problem hasn't been solved year after year, and we see that the city council continues to be ruled by ball-bubblers who have actually completely grown with the local Kiev authorities, and we see that the city's problems are completely unsettled. Because no real social housing is being built, no housing renovation is being done, because today it's one of the main problems that we're building shopping centers, we're building huge multi-story skyscrapers instead of green areas. But we don't have an adequate social housing, where Ukrainians who don't have big incomes can get apartments, we don't have buildings, we don't have housing renovations, and we have whole areas that already have a fully worn-out housing fund, where people live in absolutely terrible, some incredible, conditions. For example, there's a house in my constituency, there's unfortunately a lot of such situations, but one of the most violent is a house on Milutenko Street, 23A on the forest floor, a so-called killer's house, where it's totally unrealistic to live no longer, there's just people getting sick, dying because it's impossible to ensure their normal living there. But their problems year after year city authorities can't solve the same tens of hundreds of homes in Kiev that don't have the capacity for people to live there, but they don't have any alternatives, and it all goes into a long box. So we urge you to stop this vacchanal and at the same time start the normal development of the city in order to ensure a comfortable, normal, healthy existence, healthy life for the Chinese and all the Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u147	Thank you very much. Then, six minutes later, the national deputy of Halasyuk, to whom the word “Mr. Lensky ” is given. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear Ukrainians, dear fellow national MPs, Madam Chairman! That economic policy that is now being run by the authorities in Ukraine is leading our country nowhere. One, two percent of economic growth, which is presented as a great achievement, leaves our country with you on the side of European civilization. At this rate of economic growth, it is impossible to reach the European standard of living in Ukraine in either ten years or twenty years or fifty years. We can't achieve it at all because it's a dead end economic policy. In fact, Ukraine is extremely much, we are rich in all the resources that we can only dream of: people, land, natural fossils, a wonderful location in the heart of Europe, a fantastic climate, anything that any country in the world can dream of. And staying poor is a crime committed by the authorities against their own people. Because the only thing that's not enough for us Ukrainians to become Europeans is not only civilized, not only globally, but economically, at the level and quality of life, the only thing missing is the right state policy. Regrettably, in many cases, the current authorities are actually pouring out the national interests of Ukraine. These examples we see every day, you look at Kiev buying Polish trams "The Dog" instead of buying and ordering Lion's Electron, Tatra-South, Dnipro, Odessa and so on. We have our own manufacturers, but the authorities are buying foreign products, for dollars, for the euro. This currency goes abroad, creates jobs in other countries, creates prosperity there, and we're left with poverty, and we're left with a trade gap of over $5 billion a year. It needs to be blocked so that the bracelet is stable so that prices do not go up. How can this be done? The government chooses the easiest way to stop these holes at the expense of the International Monetary Fund, but it's a road to nowhere. Neither one nor two billion trances from the International Monetary Fund will solve the wrong economic policy of today’s authorities. You have to change the economic model of the country, you have to do smart protectionism, you have to help your own manufacturer, you have to win competition in foreign markets, and you have to take over new markets. And what support can an exporter be given when a manufacturer is not respected even in Ukraine, when he has no chance of winning tenders? Look, a recent statement by the minister of infrastructure. He says that for Ukraine, used electricity from Germany is good because he said they would give it to us for free. And even if they were given for free, what would that mean? This will mean that Ukrainian factories will not be required to build new electric cars, new cars, new tracks, and so on. What does that mean? Ukrainians will have no jobs and will have to destroy their families and travel abroad to survive there to earn a profit and send 300,400 euros to the country. The situation today in the economy is fundamental and terrible. Because income from employees from abroad is more than foreign direct investment to Ukraine. When the president, when the government is talking about the country's big economic performance, I encourage them to look not only at the Ukrainian wallet, but to see, and not at the foreign level, some doing business ratings and so on, but to look at very key indicators. For example, the volume of foreign direct investment in the world number one -- the United States -- to Ukraine, how much do you think that's going to be? $537 million. I'll translate. This is nothing at all, this is an investment zero that shows the real investment attraction that we have today. So our homework is not to take on IMF loans, as the authorities say, and it's to create such a complex of conditions that American, Japanese, European and other investments come here so that there's not a situation like this today. Because there's no investment -- so there's no production, so there's no jobs. Against this background, senior government officials make absolutely anti - Ukrainian, non - professional, Comprador statements. For example, the Vice Prime Minister of European Atlantic Integration says that, he said, Ukraine is in violation of the Association Agreement with the European Union and that we have to cancel the roundwood export moratorium, it doesn't work anymore. Look, that's not true. First, the moratorium corresponds to our international arrangements to the fullest extent both with the WTO and with the European Union, and secondly, it benefits. During the first half of this year alone, capital investments in the woodworking sector increased more than twice. Over 3 billion dollars! These are the gold bracelets we need today, like air! It's not IMF loans, it's investments. The export of seating furniture, other furniture, increased by 40 percent. U.S. dollars! We need these dollars and the euro of exports, today they're in the weight of gold for our country. We need investment, an expert and a development tax. Then we'll have a democracy worth living, a raise in wages and pensions. This is the plan that the Radical Party is proposing for the Ukrainian Parliament and for the Ukrainian country. That's how we win!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u149	Thank you for the talk. Next, please, Mr. Mosiyczuk will be invited to the rostrum for the presentation under the heading "Rizzle."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u150	Dear Ukrainian people, the honourable Ukrainian Parliament! I'm going to talk about the killers today. The killers who kill more than the terrorists on Donbassa, I'm going to talk about the responsibility of those who are in an unsettling condition driving a car and potentially becoming a killer. A drunkard is a criminal. It's an axiom. And a government official driving is a three-time criminal. October 20th. In September, in my hometown of Poltavska, the head of the Lubenski Tetjana District Administration, Kachanenko, was detained by police in a state of alcohol abuse 2.6 miles [2.6 km] away. What's more, she tried to use "phone law," to call her patrons, to run the area. It's all on video, it's all documented by honest patrol officers. And now 30 Ukrainian people's deputies from different factions and groups have signed an appeal to the President of Ukraine for the immediate release from the occupied position of this woe office. What did she do after that? She went to next door to Horol, where she lives, and the dermatologist took help in which the blacks have written about white: soberness, not analysis, not condition, but soberness, and is now covered with this help. Yes, thanks to Kachanenko, more Ukrainians are killed on the roads than even on the front. And that's why our faction of the Radical Party, I, our leader, Oleg Lazko, initiated a bill that I hope will soon be considered by the Ukrainian Parliament and which foresees an increase in the responsibility for driving an alcoholic drunk car, namely, the denial of the permanent right to drive cars of those who have been in a precarious state and the increase in criminal responsibility of those who have committed a crime while in a state of drunken driving, from 10 years and even life imprisonment if more than one person has died. We must put an end to the turmoil on the roads and rescue the Ukrainians. The security of the Ukrainians is above all else!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u151	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Cervakova gives the floor to her colleague, Mrs. Souslowy. Irina Suslova, we invite you to your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, today a meeting will be held at the Ministry of Health to discuss the final cancellation of Order No. 256, which was approved and signed in 1993. I want to remind you that this document has created a list of more than 450 occupations where women are banned from entry, including bus drivers, subway drivers, paratroopers, firefighters, divers, ship crew members, and so on. That is, because of gender ownership alone, the authorities restricted the right of half of Ukraine’s citizens. In part of the women who would potentially be able to implement themselves, they took that opportunity away. This approach is at least a hundred years old. In the spring we started a campaign called "The Woman Can Do Anything!" Its purpose is to abolish the disgraceful order of the MOH. And thank you very much for the support of both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Vice-Speaker of Parliament for supporting our initiative. But the work is not really finished. I very much hope that this question will not be discussed at today's M.O.A. Conciliation Meeting, and order 256, absolutely discriminatory, will be repealed. I stress that the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women recommended that Ukraine review the list of prohibited occupations. Furthermore, the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union provides for Ukraine to ensure a gradual approximation of the EU's employment law and practice, ensuring equal rights and opportunities for women and men. Thus, the present - day existence of Command No. 256 is contrary to Ukraine’s international obligations. Sadly, not everyone understands the essence of the problem. For example, it is thought that tomorrow, women will go to logging, foundries, firefighters, or lift an incredible load and blow up their health. In fact, it is not a woman’s duty to work in a certain area but rather her freedom and right to choose. In the 21st century, we cannot tell people how to move on, where to work, or how to realize ourselves. I want to draw your attention to a few more numbers. According to the State Department, in the first half of 2017, women received 26 percent less wages than men. Women cannot claim a number of vacancies at all, since these vacancies are reserved only for men. I'm going to report, I'm going to make every effort to ensure that this order and in general the issue of equality, non-discrimination is raised in the walls of Parliament and in the executive branch of power. And I hope that today's meeting in the MOH will not put off the agreement to cancel this order again, and the order will be canceled definitively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. I'd like to introduce you to the National Deputy of Lozova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u154	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Rephrase the great Arthur Schopenhauer: The better I know prosecutors, the more I love dogs. What do we see today? The procurator’s sons allow themselves to be shot and killed in a particularly cruel way by unfortunate dogs, cats, birds, and other animals. Can it be imagined that in the 21st century, in the center of Europe, in a large state that has a visa-free regime, in a nation that has a millennial, extremely rich culture, such medieval barbarism is taking place and most of society remains indifferent? It's like a terrible dream. And despite the fact that our Parliament, the Parliament itself, has adopted bills that have increased, have made it more difficult to take responsibility for inhumane treatment of animals, and that the lands like Svetgor, King Rudenka, still avoid responsibility. The D.A.'s son Saintgor, who killed over a thousand animals, boasts about it in social media, boasts of those journalists who unfortunately explain all this cruel, completely inhuman activity, he brags about it because the D.A. is aging him. Just as he anoints other hedgehogs, bastards who need to be physically deprived of the opportunity to continue their race. They're mentally ill people who are killing dogs just like they are now, so they're going to kill people tomorrow. Who exactly is hiding this in the D.A.'s office? This is done by Kiev’s first deputy prosecutor, Vadim Kucher. This is done by the prosecutor of Kyiv City Prosecutor’s Office No. 10. Through a circular message, they cover the crimes, cover the atrocities. I would like to thank those national MPs who are not indifferent to the abuse of animals: Viktor Valeriyovich Halasyuk, Andrija Valentinovich Nemirowski, Oleg Mikolayovich Petrenko, Aloni Volodymyrovny Koshelevy, Eugene Sergiyovich Dadey. To thank the zookeepers, especially Olenci Kostukević and everyone else, who have taken care of the prosecution along with us and who are seeking a fair punishment for the wildlings who are allowing themselves to commit such crimes without penalty. They train on dogs to kiss us better.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u155	Thank you for your timely presentation. Please welcome Ostap Ednak. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u156	Dear Ukrainians! I want to draw the attention of the public, journalists, experts to the big problem that is now happening in Ukraine. In particular, our Committee on Environmental Policy has been invited to listen to the situation that has arisen in Ukraine with the issuance and continuation of special permits for the production of gas, oil and fossil fuels by the representatives of Derjgeondra. We were given dry statistics, how many permits, how many permits were issued. But specific questions were not answered. And the questions were that our state of Ukraine declared the need for energy independence, energy security, but it did not grant permission to the state authority of Dirgueondra to state companies in the Naftogazu structure. It's Crushing and Crushing. No oil and gas production permit is issued this year. So it's no longer going to add about 300 million dollars to the government budget. On the site you can see, the company counts the damage every day. He's going to court, he's going to win. Durgeondra does not comply with the court’s decision. Crushing, that's the same thing. That is, the State of Ukraine, through bureaucratic barriers, should reduce oil and gas production, because our government authorities refuse to allow us to do so. Absolutely absurd situation. And the leadership of Djorgheonandra gave no logical explanation as to why they did so. Is it corruption, or is it underwork, or is it sabotage, or is it a diversion? No one understands anything. And this is the direct responsibility of the government to resolve this issue. Our committee has asked the Prime Minister to first address the human resources issue. Because the department is in charge of temporary duty and reporting to the committee at its next plenary week. I expect the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources to report on progress on these issues. The permits are also issued not only to state companies, but also to private companies, such as the Central GZC, the North GZC Pat, the European Dry Balka Pat, a small enterprise on Bukovina, the Brusnian Land 1. These are the enterprises that have only appealed to the deputies of our committee. And there's dozens of other businesses that haven't turned around, and we don't know what the real situation is. So this is a real damage to the country's economy, and we don't understand why the government isn't responding effectively. These may be organizational issues, bureaucratic issues, but we need to see the result. The result is the increase in the production of hydrocarbons, this is our energy security, and this is actually overcoming these absurd bureaucratic barriers. And we have to figure out the damage and find the culprits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u157	Thank you, too. Now is the word of Jehor Soboljev, to which Mrs. Ostrikova gives the word. Please, Mr. Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u158	In the morning, he met with representatives of other nations who were helping Ukraine, including in the fight against corruption. They talked about what would happen to the Supreme Court and what would happen to the Anti-Corruption Court. The Supreme Court is again playing an old game when they take a third of the new people, they add two thirds of the old to them, and they call it "decision reform." I have explained to our fellow diplomats that with the Ukrainian highly developed practices of handling the distribution of cases, all the important cases in the Supreme Court will be brought before the dependent judges, and we will not have the Supreme Court. They asked me what to do. I asked them to put any pressure within diplomacy on our nation's leadership, on the people's deputies, on everyone on whom these decisions depend. I want to tell everyone who looks and listens to us, foreign diplomats have helped, helped and helped us. But it is very important that the people of Ukraine feel that they own this state, not slaves, not tenants, but owners of this state. And my colleagues in this room are asking you all to come to visit us on October 17th, from 9 a.m. to meet under the Supreme Council of Ukraine, very peacefully, very civilizedly to ask us to adopt three important decisions that will lead the country forward in a civilized way: the creation of an anti-corruption court, the lifting of parliamentary immunity and the transition to the elections of the next parliament for open lists of parties. The first decision will be for those who confuse politics and business. The second decision will reflect the desire to hide from the law in the Supreme Council. And the third decision will allow society, all of us, to delegate as many people as possible to the authorities who truly deserve this honor and dignity.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u159	Thank you. Please give the next speech by the national deputy Laska, who has six minutes because his colleague Chizmar is still giving him the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u160	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. My dear Ukrainian pensioners, I want us to discuss the sacramental issue of pensions with you right now. The existing pension system doesn't have absolutely anyone who's retired today, and it doesn't have absolutely anyone who's going to retire tomorrow. Because the issue of retirement is not just your question, dear pensioners, but also those people who work today and have no guarantees that when they retire, they will receive a pension that will allow them to live with dignity. The Radical Party team, when it went to Parliament, is a key task for us, for which we came here, is to raise the income of Ukrainians. Because this is the only way to overcome poverty in the country, to make Ukraine a powerful country. No Putin, no other parasite will take our country if we are strong, if the Ukrainians have a job and a salary, a decent salary that will enable them to live, and then when they retire to have a decent pension. Now the government is offering us a pension reform. The Radical Party team this week, when we had a circus and a vote for amendments for which no one voted, we worked very hard at this time with the social bloc of the government, where we expressed our claims, demands and observations about the pension reform proposed by the government. For us, the key task is not to raise the retirement age the way the government wants it to. We don't think there's any point in raising retirement age because it won't give rise to pensions. The only goal of pension reform is to raise pensions. And we offer absolutely clear and concrete proposals that will allow people to raise pensions. First. 4 million Ukrainian pensioners today receive a pension below the subsistence minimum -- less than a thousand 300 dollars a month. Nearly a million people receive a pension of 949 dollars a month, and another 100,000 Ukrainians receive social assistance of 949 dollars because they do not have the necessary insurance service to grant pension entitlements. The government's offering to raise the living minimum by 5 percent is 60 dollars. And these 60 bracelets they're offering an increase since October 1st. Inflation this year is 11 percent, and an increase in social standards is proposed by the government by 5 percent. In fact, inflation and price increases will eat up that modest increase in pensions for nearly 7 million pensioners. So our team insists that the increase is at least 15 percent. This means that at least 5 million people get an extra 200, 300 dollars before they retire. Clearly, this is not much. But when a person receives 949 bracelets and has only one source of income, especially when they are pensioners in a city where there is no possibility of growing their own vegetables, every penny for that person is important. And that's what we're fighting for. And the main thing is the implementation of article 46 of the Constitution, which establishes that the pension should not be below the subsistence minimum. In 26 years of independence, no government has complied with this requirement of the Constitution, article 46. A disability pension, social assistance, a pension for people who have a long career but receive it below the minimum of living. A direct violation of the Constitution. My task is to set up a government, get the authority to meet the requirements of the Constitution, and so that no pensioner in Ukraine gets a pension below the minimum of living. That's the main thing. The next, the key thing that is in the pension system today is social injustice. When one person works and the other does not work, they receive the same pension. When a prosecutor, a judge, a deputy was lured into law of 10, 20,000 dollars a pension, a miner, a metallurgy, a steelsmith, a mechanic, a milkmaid, a doctor, a teacher, received a copy pension. We are struggling to eliminate this balance, so that our pension will be paid to our pensioners depending on their employment and working conditions. The bigger the internship, the harder the working conditions were, the higher the pension should be. The pension fund should not be the charity that you and I pay, those who work, pension contributions, and then they're distributed to everyone, including those who didn't pay the pension contributions there. It's unfair and wrong. The pension fund should provide a decent pension for those who have paid pensions. We must insist that we include a period of schooling in colleges in order to ensure that for five years hundreds of thousands of people do not lose their pensions when the time comes. The Chernobyls, the military -- we're also insisting that the pension be recalculated. But the key is that for a high pension, it has to be a high salary. So our key requirement is to raise wages, minimum wages, average wages per country. The higher the salary, the higher the pension. Finally, many of the unconscionable employers do not put people to work for greed. There's no job history. They're actually stealing their pension. They're not employers -- they're slave traders who hold workers like slaves for their own profit. I advise those who work without working, take a beat, and break hands, those slave traders who steal your secure old age, who steal your employment, and steal your decent pension. We're not going to let the working people rob here. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u161	The next, please, is the invitation of the national MP, Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! It's hard to be more expressive than Oleg Valeriyovich, of course, but my speech today concerns what Moses said about murder. We had the murder of Oleg Suprunka in the coming days and, in fact, the qualitative investigation and the qualitative results of the detention of the first defendants, for which we sincerely thank the Poltava National Police. I think this case will be brought to a logical conclusion, and the guilt of this serious crime will be held accountable. However, we do not forget that on March 16, 2014, former Mayor Mirroda Vasil Tretecki was beaten, severely beaten, and he was killed the next day. And this criminal case is open and not investigated by the same, in fact, national police in the Poltava region, although it is at different levels of control, but no further investigation is carried out for a year. We remind you, and this statement I also consider to be a request to both the Attorney General and the Head of the National Police, so that the guilty persons, who are likely to be involved in the killing of Oleg Suprunenka, may still be held accountable. Briefly on events in Odessa, where the National Movement of Ukraine has a clear pro-Ukrainian, understandable position, corruption kills, corruption actually kills a lot more people and children, especially those children, the Kingdom of Heaven who were killed last week at the Victoria boarding house. Corruption kills, and that evidence base on the theft of land, the theft of premises, the theft of budgetary resources, and the evidence base on the existence of several citizens in Mr. Truhanov does not somehow force the relevant law enforcement authorities to hold him responsible, and Odessa to make, indeed, the Ukrainian pearl of the Black Sea, which would have gained Ukrainian power. The last observation to the work of the law enforcement agencies is the murder of Sergey Lichman on May 14, 2014, and it's very surprising that fellow MPs, fellow members of the one party on "Blow" Sergei are not taking the appropriate steps to bring this matter to an end. Let us draw attention to the sum police, the sum procurator’s office, that no investigation of this murder has been carried out over the past year and a half. Please perform your duties, perform your duties under the Criminal Procedure Code. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u163	Heroic glory! Once again with your birthday we welcome you. And I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Linc. Please, Mr. Linc.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u164	Dmitry Linko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. I would like to dedicate my speech to the land reform that everyone is talking about, but they really don't understand what should be under this land reform. The authorities offered us, but they refused, because we were essentially against it, selling Ukrainian land to foreigners, to foreign countries, to great latifundists. But really what is the point, and what do we demand, what should be land reform? This is the real support of farmers and farmers and peasants. That is why we have registered changes to the Constitution, which we propose to write down forever and on the basis of these changes to the Constitution, to adopt further reforms, which is the basis of farming in the countryside, in order to secure the right of peasants to their own land. The violent situation that has existed in Ukraine for 25 years now is 450,000 hectares from the Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. But we all realize that these 450,000 hectares aren't actually used for science, they're just sinking to the left, they're making money in black, and the people who worked in these research, scientific enterprises, they didn't get their pies. I've addressed myself on a number of occasions, and we've been in the village of Charious in Kirovograd, where there's a Red Farmer company, where there's always fights, raids every year, because there's bandits. And the people who worked for more than a thousand people who worked in this state enterprise back in Soviet times, they didn't get any acres of land, even though the enterprise actually has 5,000 acres of land. So we insist that Kabmin solve this problem immediately, because there are hundreds of such businesses throughout Ukraine. People of work, veterans of work they have the right to get, and these lands have to be gutted, they have to get these pies. Next. ATO veterans, many on local councils, tell us that there is no land available, that all the land of the state supply is sold out, all the land is occupied. Thus, it is these lands of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences that must be scattered and distributed to the ATO veterans, who have the primary right to obtain land. Next: on the state budget and on support for farmers. Last year we supported what was allocated 2 billion to support farmers, but what we saw was how all this money was distributed by the government went to the oligarchs, Kosyuks, and all the other latifundists who would then live for that money. So this year, we're proposing to ensure our demand for support for every peasant, not latifundists, not oligarchs, but the support of every peasant, so that every cow owner in the village gets the support of 5,000 bracelets -- this will be the real support of peasants, the real support of farmers. And that's what we're going to support, in the state budget, we're going to make proposals and we're going to demand that the government distribute them that way, not to the oligarchs, but specifically to every peasant and every cow, that we have a cow in the village, and that we have a farm in the village. Because peasants today don't know how to survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u165	Thank you. And now we have Oleg Berezuk. Ms. Sotnik, please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u166	My speech will be dedicated to those people who write a lot of references to the Self-Help faction and personally to me as a national MP. And to those who, unfortunately, do not sometimes write these petitions, because they have failed and, first of all, they have failed in our corrupt and unjust courts. Honey, I'm so sorry. I apologize to you for not being able to help you very often. I can't help you because the judicial branch of power is independent under the Constitution. But it is independent of me and other national MPs, but it remains highly dependent on the President and his direct political influence. And in order to remedy this situation, to correct the situation of corrupt courts that are dependent and are actually working for one person in this country, we're trying to fight for the second week in this room for amendments to procedural codes, because procedural codes are the rules that protect you when you go to court and even when there's a judge who makes a mockery, but you know you have rights that can protect you. My colleagues, when they listened to us for two weeks, said, "We don't want to get into these courts, we don't want to, don't let God judge by these new rules, because it won't make any sense, because in fact these procedural codes will make us even more vulnerable." And actually the MPs are just going to deceive you about what really is judicial reform. The basic principle of these procedural codes, for example, may be that article 55 of the Constitution, which establishes for you, every citizen, the right to appeal to a court, is completely nullified. Not all of you, not everyone, can, for example, turn to cassation. This will be decided by the involved judge whether you go to the cassation facility or not. And very much for many people, especially in criminal matters, cassation is the last hope. And these codes take away that last hope from you. Very often, too, we face a situation where we have to go to court and defend our rights. There's now a mistake in Kharkiv, in Santa Claus regarding Self-Help -- and we don't have the ability to defend ourselves in the courts either. That's why we fight, including for our own rights, is true, but above all, for the rights of those tens of millions of people who go to court every year and find no truth there. And the last. I ask you not to manipulate Prime Minister Groysman by stopping pension reform. This is not true, the deputies in this room have increased the minimum wage, and you are now as Prime Minister obliged under the Pension Insurance Act to increase pensions. It was your decision to do so for another six months.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Oleno. Please welcome National MP Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u168	Dear Ukrainians, my brave voters, first of all! Whenever I come from this rostrum, I'm talking to you about a problem that hurts me, and I'm sure it hurts a lot of braves since 2014, and I'm going to talk again about the fate of section 14 which has still not been solved. Although quite recently, by adopting the amendments to the 2017 budget, we have decided on its fate by creating a special section number 14 of the National Rehabilitation Centre for ATO participants. This seemed to me to be the case for many, for a direct rule of this law had been prescribed: The Ministry of Health had created a Ministry of Health during the month. Period! Unfortunately, a month later, the president signed it a little later, on August 1, and after passing the cabinets of the MOH, I learned that key health officials were not even aware of the existence of the law. As it turns out, they do not know that since July 5, 2017, there is no light in this special section, first in the hospital, then in the clinic. They do not know that today’s debt is $4.5,000. millions, excuse me, the bracelet, and with the count, all of them are almost six. They don't know that by the end of the year, if nothing changes, the amount of debt owed to people, which is more than 150 employees, will be 13 million dollars. And when I realized that the law wasn't working yet, although, of course, the "magical pendel" was given: I made a request to the Prime Minister, I met him, I talked to him about the fate of the doctors and those who forgot about these doctors. They'll do something by the end of the year. We decided to register a separate bill signed by 15 people's deputies representing four factions and two MPs in Parliament. It would seem that the solution to this problem is once again. But think, why register two separate laws, one of which becomes a valid law if it is simply not implemented? I understand that now we are hardly being heard by the representatives of the MoH, because they are not even looking at the valid norm of the law, but let's say, I'm talking to my colleagues from Smila right now, next week non-plenary, let's find the time to come to their office and ask them when a national rehabilitation center will be created, when they will pay off your debts on a salary, when your director, Mrs. Kalabovnik, finally takes over and realizes that her task is to sit in the Mozzie instead of inciting people to strikes; when the cream national MPs who represent the factions, who are not close to being associated with the Smile, will cease to instigate people and tell them that you that you're the problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u169	Thank you. Next talk, please, from the national deputy John Sporish. He's been given the word by his colleague Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u170	Hello, Madam Chairman, distinguished national deputies who have remained in the hall! Well, of course, this week, I think the chairman, when he closes the session, will tell us that this is a county job. We're going to come to the county and we're going to do the same thing again -- our voters are going to ask us. I understand not the cheerleaders, but the writers. They're hardly responsible for anything but their parties, but, at the same time, we have to answer for it. And I'm going to tell you that we're already talking about the third plenary week for the draft Law on Judiciality. I understand perfectly that "Paternity," which has made more than four thousand amendments, I think they've made, yes, there's some hundred amendments to the right ones, but, at the same time, the water that flows so that we don't move on. The Retirement Act, and the water that flows so that we don't go over the Medical Act, I think we understand it perfectly, and we would very much like our voters to understand it. I think they understand that today. But, at the same time, we must do everything we can to ensure that the factions responsible for the state really do not go into concessions, but together. We see beautifully that the opposition factions that they do are every voter should also know and should see. Indeed, they are waiting for their time to come to power, and that is what we understand. There's nothing going on in our room but a struggle for power, I'm afraid. You know, I think we're talking about the budget today. I'm also in what, that's what the budget is already, and we're going to look at it, fortunately, it's on the table in September. And I would very much like to see the country's animal tax included in the budget. Because we say we don't pay the animal tax, but we pay it. Unfortunately, we pay this 20 percent because who knows when the purchase of one technique or another is going to stop it. And that's unfair, we can lose our livestock in the village. Today, we urge investors to do what is right. But let's not fight for power here for a year, let's show that we have one enemy today is not Russia, it's Putin, and we understand perfectly. And let's unite and do everything we can to get the investor to come, not fight, stick around here for power, and then talk about why we don't do anything, why we didn't do anything. I think we're criticizing our country's economy, because it's developing a little bit. So let's put our shoulders on, let's work together to make this economy develop, not just criticize each other. Yes, the Pensions Act, I'd like to say a few words. The pensioners are all waiting, we know the poorest people in the village. Why? Because they worked very hard, but their pension was the lowest. And we have to do everything we can to make this pension up to them, so that they get 2 times that, 3 times that, because they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u171	Thank you, Sir John. I invite you to the words of Mr. Lozov, to whom his colleague Wolf conveys the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u172	My holy Plain Land, the cradle of the Ukrainian Insurgency Army, dear compatriots! I'd like to take it from this highest. The highest in the country is to report to you for my work, Andrew Lozov, and all of our teams. Over 50 million dollars have been allocated to the socio-economic development of the country in the last year alone by the efforts of the Radical Party. At the expense of these costs were done, or in the course of execution, the following works were carried out: the reconstruction of the receptional branch of the Plain District Children's Hospital; the reconstruction of the clinic there; the capital repair of the road in the village of Gruszwice; the construction of the central network of water supply in the village of Viszękka in Ostróch; the warming of the facade of the Kvaslivsk children's garden; the capital repair of the construction of the village of Ustian U.S. in the Corinian district; the renovation of the music school in the village of Mirotin in the town of Dolunj; the construction of the roof of the district of Asphatov in the district of Violar. The construction of the town of Kotlarivil in the village; the repair of the nursery repairs of the child in the village of Shil; the roof of the village of the village of Mirotín in the village of Vovdava in the district of Gosz. And I'm also paying attention to the major repairs of the school in the village of Bilska Volta in the Volodimirecki region. One wise man said that you would not find your parents in defeat, but many in victory. Various bastards, liars who think we're stupid with you, lie, talk in the area, say it's their credit. One such liar, for example, is the head of the Vladimir Horzius Air Force, who tells people about the cost of repairing the school in the village of Bilska Vola. Moreover, Mr. Horzius calls the school principal, threatens and demands that instead of an honest tender, she receive some pseudo-firm from Vladimir, horn, and hooves. I demand that the governor of the district of Alexia Mularenko, Alexei Vitaliyovich, release Mr. Chrogo immediately. I demand from the National Anti-Corruption Bureau that I begin an investigation immediately, that I punish this corrupter, a bastard who, when some people who love Equality, beat up money, just want to live up to it. The Light Team will continue to work for the sake of Equality. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u173	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of Mr. Anton Kiss. Please, Mr. Anton, give me your word. Mr. Kiss.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, dear voters! Anton Kisse, 142 constituency, Ukrainian Bessarabia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u175	Mr. Anton, I'd like to speak to you in national language. I'm asking you very much if that's possible for you. You own it 100 percent, so please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u176	No, no. I'm sorry, but I'm Russian, if you don't mind. To better express your position. As a major MP representing the five areas of the South Odessa region, I closely monitor the mood of my constituents, our electorate. Lately, it is worth noting that intensive work is being done on road repair and reconstruction. But there are a number of issues that deserve the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers first. We have a stronger relationship, first and foremost, between trade and economics with Moldova. Perhaps the border with Moldova is the longest. And the lack of roads that have taken place in the past, especially railways. It's "Bérezino-Basarabiasque-Rani". A railway road that had provided very strong economic growth 20 years ago. For the most recent period, there has been only verbal revitalization in the reconstruction of this road, the railway. It is not enough that the railway has now stopped the route, the passenger route to Berezino, that is, the route “Odessa – Berezino”, which concerns people and people already express their protest. I would like to address the Cabinet of Ministers first of all from this rostrum. A meeting of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and Prime Minister of Moldova will be held shortly. To discuss this issue and find ways to resolve it. The last joint government commission to be held in Odessa at the level of the First Vice Prime Minister. Moldova stated that it was ready to allocate those funds in respect of the road in question on their territory. Today, the football, if you will say so, is on Ukrainian territory, i.e. the decision must be behind the Cabinet of Ministers. Once again, I implore and demand, and I ask you to make my request in the form of a parliamentary request. In order for a high-level cabinet meeting to decide, including our Government, on the construction of the Berezino-Bessarabka-Reni Railway Branch, which will give impetus to the six areas of Odestina to recover. Ukraine's economic potential will increase.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u177	Thank you. Please, the next speaker is the National Fisherman. I'd like to have a word with you. Fisherman, National Deputy of the Fisherman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u178	Dear Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs! We all know about the garbage dump problem that was in the city of Raven, which led not only to the death of people but also to the environmental disaster. Sadly, though, such problems are not only in the city of Lviv but also in other areas. I would like to stop at the problem of my native Dnipropetrovska, a village of the city-like Shiroque, where I spent the summer with a work visit. As early as 2010, for five years, think about it. There was a fence, an electric station, other failed communications, but unfortunately there was nothing left but the fence. People who live there literally choke on the stench that stands there. As with me, the problem is divided into two questions. First of all, who will be responsible for the budget money that has been stolen over these years. And secondly, how to solve the problem and help my native Dniproperty to the inhabitants of the mind of Shiroke. The first time I heard about this problem, I certainly went to the Attorney General's Office. Because both the police, the government, and the district government know about the problem. And what answer did I get? Honestly, it's terrible. The Attorney General said it wasn't her job to investigate the theft of budgetary money, and I have to go to another state institution. It's considered that if small and medium-sized businesses are to be persecuted, as in the United States, 60 percent of GDP is small and medium-sized business, if we have to pursue business in the IT network, check taxes, push them, it's the Attorney General's Office's jurisdiction. If there is to be a real break-up of the budget, it is not within the Attorney General’s jurisdiction. And the second question is, How can we solve this problem? The faction of the Radical Party in the Dnipropetrov region and in the Supreme Council takes this issue for personal control. In the near future, we will hold a meeting with the Dnipropetrov district administration and the Dnipropetrov district council to finally allocate the money and make sure that the problems of garbage disposal in the Dnipropetrov area are solved. I mean, I think that's the only way we can solve the problems of ordinary citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u179	Thank you. 30 seconds goes by of Chumaku, who insists. And I have 30 seconds to finish my session. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u180	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I first want to address the voters of my 214 constituency in Kiev, a very small announcement. Now there are a lot of calls and questions in the district asking me what it is, and there are such a lot of complaints in the district about entering the Chumak battalion and the poster that says that Chumak and Trump are taking Russia. I mean, it's not my creativity, I don't have anything to do with it, but I don't mind if it actually happens. Thank you. Now I want to talk about completely different things. Dear Ukrainians, you can hear here when our colleagues speak, about what, in principle, is the reforms that we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-22-m0.u181	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Victor, we've had 30 seconds, and I'm asking you very much to keep this arrangement, because I've already taken two minutes. I thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I thank all the deputies who have lived to the moment of the conclusion of our agenda. And let me remind you that next week the national MPs are working with the electorate. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, October 3, at 10 a.m. It will begin with further consideration of amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the Code of Civil Procedure, the Code of Administrative Justice and other legislative acts (second reading). And the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today I declare closed. Thank you all very much.
