ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u1	Good morning! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Colleagues ready for registration? Please take up jobs. I'd like you to sign up. Please. [[10:03:38]] 361 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. According to article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes of presentations by Ukrainian national deputies on Wednesday. I emphasize, not from factions, but from national MPs. And if a member of a faction or a group doesn't get into the list, it doesn't mean he has to insist on the words. Everyone who intends to speak from the deputies, participate in the record, and participate in the presentation. Please record. Gorbunov, Alexander Volodymyrovich, please pass it on to Ungurian Paul. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please, Paul Unguryan, before the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, this special week for all Christians I would like to welcome us with the glorious Ukrainian greeting "Glory to Jesus Christ!".. This week is special to the people of Ukraine, because regardless of their religious affiliation, the Ukrainian Orthodox, Protestants, Greek Catholics are probably celebrating the most important week in the life of the Savior Jesus Christ, a week called passionate. And this week, I want to talk and have fun about the most important thing. I would like to talk today about one of the most important values we have in Ukraine -- these are our children, this is a Ukrainian family, these are values of spirituality, morality and education. Friends, I think we've all seen these shocking images of girls fighting video in one of the cities of Ukraine. Sadly, according to journalists, researchers, psychologists, teachers, teachers, such fights between schoolchildren are taking place in many Ukrainian cities. Friends, and this is a huge, huge problem. Friends, today we have a problem with the absence of a family - policy body on a national level. Today, the theme of family and government regulation, family relations, family conflicts, problems, the material welfare of families, young families, is at the level of one of the departments of the Ministry of Social Policy. The Ministry of Social Policy, according to everything, is dealing with important issues and is primarily tasked with solving the problems of both pensioners, veterans, and ATO soldiers, and those who are underprivileged. But the family’s theme, which has always been in the Ministry of Youth, is not institutionally represented in government today. So I ask you to consider my position today and the requirement of the government to reinstate the activities of the ministry of the family, young people, and families, perhaps to restore this name in the name of the ministry because we see what serious problems the lack of a parental function from each family, from each family, and from the help of the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u3	Thank you. Please, Rizanenko Pavel Aleksandrovich. Passes the word to Kudlaenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u4	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear National Deputies! At the end of this week, a year has passed since the appointment of the government of an active coalition led by Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman. First of all, for us, as the largest presidential parliamentary faction during the government's activities, the government has found effective mechanisms for implementing the laws adopted under this dome aimed at decisive reforms. Increasing GDP for the first time since Crimea annexation. An increase in minimum wage to 3200 is a significant achievement of an active Kabmin. Under the conditions of the country, anyone could not have taken such a step and today not every politician could have done so. Nevertheless, millions of Ukrainians have already experienced improvements in their financial security at the expense of raising the minimum. The introduction of e-declaration, the development of e-government services like: online marriage, online business registration and very, very much more. The stable and effective functioning of ProZorro's electronic purchasing system, the re-entry of a database on the control of public spending, all testify to the assured introduction of new technologies in the work of public authorities. It's not easy: a tool for convenient fast communication between the state and its citizens. And last of all, it's a very important innovation of the government that our coalition has created -- the electronic compensation of VAT. In this way, Ukraine is approaching the cohorts of European developed countries, deepening international cooperation, and accelerating European integration processes. At the same time, despite the economic losses that took place during the blockade of supplies from occupied territories, in such a situation, Kabin and Parliament stood in a clear position: any trade relations with terrorists were not even considered possible. The government has not refused further reforms in Ukraine. In particular, there will be an increase in pension insurance in the fall, less than a year after the short raise of the minimum. In 2018, about 30 billion dollars are planned to be spent on road repairs, and buildings are about to be powered. But these achievements of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister could not have been achieved without effective cooperation and a permanent dialogue with Parliament. That's why the faction of the Party of Peter Poroshenko urges the national MPs to continue working on one team with the government, to continue the discussion on the country's reform issues, and to put the interests of Ukrainians ahead of their political ambitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u5	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of national deputy Oleg Kulinić. Please, People's Deputy Kisse.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, dear voters! During the last week of my district work, I had a lot of appeals to me, as was the case with all the people's deputies. And I participated in one of the meetings held in the village of Oxamitno Balgrad region in the State Enterprise of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine Suvorov. What's the problem? Over the past years, there has been a serious problem with one of the leaders of the vineyard industry, and its seedlings are known not only in Odessina but also abroad. But in the past few years, the former director of the business has been in a position to accept the enterprise. However, due to the State approach of the Academy of Sciences, agricultural sciences of Ukraine, a competition was held, and a competition was held for the Director of the State Enterprise. But what happens next? There are some reptiles who are trying to destabilize the situation, put to a standstill the election of the competition commission of the official concerned, the name of Rusanjik Ivan Georgievic, who was unanimously elected to the post and presented to the Academy of Sciences for harmonization and appointment. But there's been no agreement or appointment for a month and a half. Yesterday, it appeared on the site of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine on the appointment of the director of the enterprise on the basis of the relevant decision of the competition commission. But in a few hours, this appointment disappears, lawsuits appear. But returning to my meeting with the labour force to a number of hundreds of people who clearly require the appointment of an experienced leader in the face of Rusanjak Ivan Georgievic, who has proven himself to be one of the best business leaders in the Belgrade area. It was a great effort for the district and areas to persuade him to compete in order to prevent the enterprise from breaking up. On behalf of the large group of the State-owned enterprise of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, I appeal to the President and Bureau of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the Ministry of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine to take operational measures and to appoint, in accordance with the decision of the competitive commission of the person who has been elected. And allow for the stabilization of the situation in this enterprise so that it, an enterprise that has already lost its face, rises above it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u7	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Yuri Bublik. People's Deputy Halasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues, national MPs! The Energy and Utilities Commission has turned into a pocket tool from robbing consumers into oligarchs. The Commission's first affair this year was the adoption of Decree 148 establishing the cost of connecting to the power grids. By this decree, the NCRECR was hit simultaneously by industry, construction, alternative energy, and Ukrainian agrarians. They set completely dragon tariffs for adhesion that they counted adjectively, took stock of Deloitte Touche, which was done for other purposes, where the cost of assets was placed on the shoulders of consumers, and made investment barriers that made it impossible to practically create new products and other objects. We stopped this shameful affair on the march, because as deputy leader of the Radical Party and head of the Prompolitics Committee, I turned to the Prime Minister, to the Attorney General's Office, to the NABU, we gave all the justifications and official answers to the parliamentary appeals that indicate that this is an affair of the NCREKP. This decree was not published, it did not enter into force. Today, Dmitri Wolf wants to do practically the same with cosmetic changes. The second huge affair was the attempt to introduce a so-called subscription for a gas counter. They wanted to force the Ukrainians to pay for the gas, even if they did not consume it, so that 24 billion dollars of income would receive bribes to get the oligarchs from the Ukrainian pocket. And that would be the biggest hit in peasants, in pensioners, in those who save gas, in those who have old boilers, that would be an extra hundred dollars per month. This is an absolutely shameful affair that has been halted by the personal efforts of Oleg Laska and the Radical Party faction and many colleagues in this Parliament who have supported this movement. This is the second big affair they've tried to have with the NCREKP. But they don't even stop at that. Today, after revoking this decision, they are trying to get in on the other side and today they are proposing the introduction of wages for joining the gas pipe of Ukrainian gas pipelines. Just think about it: not the importers, but the Ukrainian gas collectors, in order to further increase the tariffs for Ukrainian citizens. But for Ukrainian gas collectors, there must be free entry into the gas transport system, as is the case in France: from importers to pay, and from the Ukrainian manufacturer not to take. We have to become a gas exporter, not forever dependent on imports, either from Europe or from Russia or from other countries. Therefore, these shameful affairs of the NCRECR need to be halted, sent to the NCRECR under the leadership of the Wolf, and subordinated to the interests of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u9	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u10	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians, I would like to inform you that when a country is in war, when Ukrainians count their last bracelets every day to survive when our state is in crisis, Parliament decided to go more than a month to actual holidays. I mean, there's nothing to do today, obviously in the Supreme Council, so to speak, that on April 14, the last meeting will take place in April, and by May 16, the next meeting of the warring parliament will be scheduled. Of course, there is probably no place to fall below, but such things are causing completely fair indignation and misunderstanding in the Ukrainians. And there's something to do, actually, because we're even going to take the same tariff policy, which, in particular, has just been talked about in the rostrum. We understand what's going on today, there's another attempt to rob the Ukrainians again because of the same NCRECR. We realize that only because of the pressure of society, only because of the indignation of people, has the activity of the active national deputies been able to stop the decision of the NCREKP to apply for gas counters. We realize that this did not happen because they suddenly saw through and decided that their decision was wrong. This happened only because there was tremendous indignation, enormous pressure from society. And now we shouldn't stop at that. We need to demand that this shameful decision not only be suspended but totally anti-Ukrainian, anti-national, and it has been completely annulled. Next, it is essential that all the leadership of the NCRECR, which is totally dependent on authority, which is not any and is close to an independent regulator, be immediately retired. And we really need to form an independent organ, not a controlled oligarhat and executive authority. And we need to understand that the whole tariff policy has to be reviewed in general, because it's completely built and corrupt, it's built on lies, on manipulations and on an oligarchic lobby, which unfortunately controls so far and most in Parliament, controls the government, controls the same, so-called, independent commission. So today I want to inform you that the representatives of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union have registered in Parliament a bill on the nationalization of energy generation in Ukraine. It is only in this way that we can make this system truly transparent in today's particular conditions of war and in the face of a colossal crisis, in the face of the enormous poverty of the people, that we can make this system work in the interests of the Ukrainians, not in the interests of the oligarchs who have monopolized it for nothing, and allow the Ukrainians to pay normal real tariffs, not this absolute loot, which is impossible for most Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u11	Thank you. I just want to comment that the number of plenary weeks is the same as the number of work in the districts, as is the number of weeks of work on the committees defined by the Rules Act. What was changed during this session is just the order of these weeks. If the national MPs support the idea of increasing the number of plenary weeks, which I fully agree with, I think is a lot of support. I think we just have to find 226 votes in the room in order to increase the number of plenary weeks compared to what it is today. Thank you. I would like to welcome you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Mikhail Golovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u12	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now looking forward to his report on the year before the government's anniversary, and it is very relevant that the recent international edition of Ernst & Yong has confirmed that Ukraine, unfortunately, is the world's most disgraceful first place in the world at the level of corruption. This is one of the key achievements of today’s power, our government, and our coalition. I want to say really another figure that the UN has already confirmed, that Ukraine is the same first place in Europe and one of the first places in the world in poverty, and this level of poverty today is more than 60 percent, and this is really a national catastrophe. So when a country is driven to poverty, the level of corruption is booming, no one is fighting corruption, the economy is still in the shadows, over 1 trillion, and it is officially recognized by economists and is now recognized by the Ministry of Finance. Nothing is happening today, virtually no key reforms proposed by Freedom, and our bills to stop spending in offshore, force them to return, eliminate private monopolies, stimulate development and production in Ukraine, and help our enterprise. Unfortunately, this has not happened in the development of the Ukrainian economy. What I'm saying is that today, the authorities are getting more and more involved in the debt of the Ukrainian state and our economy. The signing of the agreement with the IMF, it's practically the surrender of Ukraine and the surrender of national interests, and it's leading to the astronomical size of our nation's debt. Today it is, I want to emphasize, more than 90 percent of GDP, it's 2.2 trillion dollars, it's more than 50,000 dollars for every Ukrainian, and it's still rising. So what's the economy, what's the achievement, what's the development of GDP going to be like when today our country's only dealing with debt service? And this figure is astronomical today: only 120 billion per cent, 240 billion this year in the debt line budget. What kind of development are we talking about? So our position is consistent. We demand that in order to really raise the Ukrainian economy, we need to review the strategy. And it was this strategy that Freedom offered. I regret that today the authorities are ready to pay off their debts to sell Ukraine in bulk and in pieces, because such conditions are IMF. It's the gift, the sale of land, it's the sale of strategic enterprises, like Centrenergo, Turboat, Odessa Airport, and so on. It's for the sake of other national interests. So our position is as follows: we cannot allow the sale of Ukraine. If the authorities say that the state is a bad manager, such authority should go. We demand more debt to introduce moratoriums, and only with Parliament's consent do we agree to give the government a new loan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u13	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Valery Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, the previous speaker spoke of poverty ratings, but every day new ratings certainly show what is the result of the work of the active authorities. In happiness rating, we're between Ghana and Uganda, by corruption rating, we're number one in the world. And the rating of the world's poorest countries from Bloomberg today also shows us that, unfortunately, our place is among the poorest countries in Europe and the world. I'll just give you one digit, that's 7 million. That is how many Ukrainian families today receive a public service grant, which means that they do not have the capacity to pay for themselves. And that's not the limit, that figure goes up every day. In my district alone, in Kharkivsk, today, at the beginning of the year, more than half a million households received the aid from the state of utility. And each day, the number of recipients of subsidies increases by 2,000 families, and by the end of the heating season, the number has increased by almost 20,000. Such a higher urban arithmetic testifies to only one thing: the total further impoverishment of the population. But a subsidy is the most painful question not only for people, but also for local governments. With the delay of funding from the State of Subsidies, utility companies, where thousands of consumers, have already begun to threaten to disengage people from their services. In Kharkiv, at the beginning of the year, the State's debt for housing and utility compensation amounted to almost 718 million dollars. In order to provide timely calculations, more than a billion million dollars are needed to provide subsidies to the city’s population. I want to point out that in January-February of this year, the combined budget of the Kharkiv region was 8 billion dollars, and 6.3 billion of that amount was counted into the state budget. So we don't see any actual decentralization, unfortunately, that helps us solve the problems of the regions on our own. So far, the government budget has taken up more income in the regions. I also want to pay attention to one also of the most violent phenomena. Today, it is popular to install common gas counters for homes instead of individual ones. And people actually have to pay for everything that consumes a house that cuts every citizen. I want this speech to be as an address addressed to the Ukrainian government in order to help Ukrainians set up private counters for each apartment. To make it impossible to increase the cost of housing services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u15	Thank you. The People's Front is Lapin Igor Alexanderovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u16	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Today, at this point, every day, we are at war with an aggressor country -- the Russian Federation, which is sending terrorists to us, is sending its armed forces to us. But as one well-known Ukrainian player said, "We're not afraid of Moscow lice, we're more afraid of Ukrainian lice." I want to point out that at this point, negative things are happening, including in the Volin region. The fact is, the aggressor country doesn't have any scales to destroy our nation's economy. At the minimum cost of military action, they are causing maximum damage to our nation. We've lost some of our territory to this day, we're losing our businesses, and yet we're still losing other values to our nation through Ukrainian nesting. Thanks to the cooperation of civil activists and law enforcement agencies, we have been able to stop many of the negative themes and schemes that have taken place in Ukraine. But I want to draw your attention to what's going on in Volina today. First of all, the Lviv firm Prikarpatzahaz for today, was caught yesterday at the moments that cut out the "Friendship" pipeline. If anyone may not know what it is, it is a strategic object that has always belonged to Ukraine. This cut is granted by an misunderstood Russian company. I'm paying attention to everyone in this room, especially the representatives of the power structures, thanks to the interaction between the public and the law enforcement agencies, this facility has been suspended for the moment. There's a video in the social media about how the good tubes are dug up and cut in the area of Kashir and Ratni district. After reviewing the documents brought to them by law enforcement officials, some experts at the prosecutor’s office said that they did not see the crime of cutting up a strategic object. So I'm paying attention to the power structures, the BSS, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, especially the Attorney-General's Office, to the facts, to the documents, and to the criminal responsibility of those Ukrainian fertilizations that are now destroying a strategic object and cutting up on a mateloth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u17	Thank you. Opanasenko gives the word of Romanov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, a week ago there was a terrible situation that rocked the whole country: teenagers were brutally bullied by teenagers in broad daylight in the middle of the city. A few more decades of teenagers have been cynically filmed on the phone as a moral and physical abuse of a person. How many of these are happening throughout the country? Hundreds. Thousands. The fact is that objective statistics are not usually kept silent. Moreover, they became normal. They'd be silent right now if the mother of one of the injured girls who got a concussion hadn't posted this disgraceful video on the Internet saying, "I want the whole country to see it." And the whole country saw this naked wound. But the point is that we, as civil servants, now have to make immediate conclusions and formulate effective policies in working with young people and families. Of course, it is very difficult to call on young people not to be aggressive in their position as a national deputy because even in the country’s highest legislative body, when they lacked arguments, they used fists. And we must condemn such shameful aggression. All conscious authorities are now to unite in the fight for healthy moral and physical youth. The fact is that effective youth policies do not exist at the moment. Children, adolescents, and young people are required to work in child and youth services, social services centers for children, families, and young people. But they have so small a state, so small a number of their employees, that only these categories of children and young people who have already found themselves in difficult circumstances. So they put out the fire there when it's too late. Think about it, only 4 percent of children have ever approached a school psychologist, not because they have no problems, but because they just don't trust him. School psychologists usually follow 20-year-old instructions and don't work proactively with young people. And in fact, an effective youth policy of the state has to cover all aspects of children's and young people's lives and work on basic principles: creating a successful personality; zero tolerance for aggression; overcoming a set of costs; developing a healthy lifestyle and national patriotic upbringing. That is why it is so important today to adopt the bill, which is set out in agenda No. 6048 – on the creation of youth centres throughout the country, I am the main areas for the establishment of the identity and the main instrument of state policy. I call upon all the national deputies today to remain in the Hall and vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u19	Thank you. I've seen this horrible video, too, and I'm deeply convinced that the state has to take effective and effective steps to get young people involved in parenting, including sports. And I fully support you because today we have to adopt that block of laws that the Committee on Youth and Sports has proposed, and I also ask everyone to maximize their mobility to adopt a block of laws for young people and sports. Now for the final speech by the deputies, Solvar passes the word to Maxim Burbak, and then, I give the floor for the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I would like all of us to return to events that took place more than three years ago that began with Euramydan, from the fact that the then leadership that had fled to Russia had refused to follow the path of European integration. Unfortunately, last week this event passed through this assembly of parliament and that our European Union colleagues supported the introduction of a visa-free regime for Ukraine. This is the achievement of the entire country: that's what Euromaiden went through, that's what the Dignity Revolution went through, and the whole country was fighting for us to finally get back to the European family. And now, I would like to stress that we need to take the next steps to implement this decision so that our citizens can get biometric passports so that they can move freely through Europe as European citizens do. So I'm calling on the government to predict an increase in the funding of the State Migration Service by over 200 million dollars in order to install additional biometric passports, 470 such autonomous stations need to be equipped so that we can implement the European Parliament's decision. I'm calling on the Ukrainian Security Service, the State Department, to provide channels for the submission of such information so that we can finally get every Ukrainian citizen a biometric passport and travel freely through the European Union. I'm talking to the local self-government authorities so that, out of the money from the fiscal decentralization that was introduced by the government of Arsenius Yatsenyuk, they can also have these items at their expense. So only 18 points were equipped for the money of local self - government, and nothing was done. And these are the same citizens who live in our cities, in our villages, in areas where they can't stand in line, so that they can get that opportunity in time, and get a biometric passport in peace, without queues. And the next. Dear Mr. Head! I'm asking you to have a bill for the next plenary week, which was initiated by members of the People's Front, for the introduction of visas for citizens of the Russian Federation, on national security. After a visa-free visa has been voted on for Ukrainians, we must introduce a visa regime for citizens of the Russian Federation and this will ensure Europe against the Russian spies' invasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a statement has been made for a recess from the Opposition Block and Rebirth Group. They're ready to take a break. And there will be Nestor Shufric speaking from the groups, please, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I've seen a lot of things for my almost 20 years at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but what's going on now, I honestly haven't seen. I'm absolutely sure, I see, here we are with the ancients of Parliament, our colleagues who have accepted the Constitution of Ukraine, Mr. Victor, Mr. Sergey, Mr. Yuli Jakovic. Please tell me, when you accepted the Constitution, could you imagine that we would have separate holidays in Parliament, so-called Passover? For more than a month, the Supreme Council will not meet since Friday. The conscience is with the national MPs, I ask? This has never been the case, never has been the case. One situation, too, is unfortunately a tradition, when opposition blocks, ignores, but when authorities make a decision not to gather for a month, and then appeals: you have to adopt such a law, you have to adopt such a law. Please tell me, did you make people live better? No, it's not. People are seven times poorer than you were in your day, and over the past three years, people have become seven times poorer, and you're already afraid to look them in the eye. Of course, we need to consider many things, and we insist that from April 24 to 28, the Supreme Council work in plenary mode. They were considered. Social issues have been addressed, the laws that apply to the fate of the settlers, the laws that you're talking about. And I propose to vote on the 6220 bill on criminal liability for non-personal voting. We don't have to scream, we have to vote. I propose to vote that people be able to see the coalition so that the personal composition of the coalition can be seen on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What are you hiding?Oh, my God! Who are you afraid of? The people you cheated on in 2004, and you've been going on since 2014. Unfortunately, it's true and people will tell you. You're afraid of people because you robbed them. And today I feel that in this coalition again I see the Arbuses, and I demand to respect the Constitution as, by the way, the 10th article of the Constitution, which gives me the right to use Russian in all aspects of life, including in this rostrum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! In order to explain the position and to disprove these accusations, I would like to say that when the Regulatory Committee planned the agenda and the agenda for the session, we took into account the delegation of the PARJE, which is taking part in international meetings where critical meetings are taking place. And I would also like to point out that there's no break in Parliament: there's work on the committees and there's work in the districts. And let anyone who plans to have a holiday report to the electorate for that position. And, honourable colleagues, I would like to inform you that Parliament is working effectively and effectively. And I want to remind you that they blocked Parliament's work for months when the balls were here with NATO signatures, and now these people are going to be raising and telling how Parliament is going to work. We can't discredit the Ukrainian Parliament! Colleagues, next we have an application for a break from the Radical Party and the People's Front. They're ready to switch to a break. And I invite you to the address of Yuri Berezu. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u24	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people, colleagues! When the Pharisees come out to this rostrum and talk about how they didn't rob during Yanukovich, how they didn't solve the war, how they used to dance on the bones of our grandfathers during official holidays, and say, "Let's work!" Listen, who's stopping you from working today, who stopped you from working yesterday, who prevented you from working every day when the Supreme Council is working? Mr. Schufrich's poverty is a separate subject. Look at his declaration. Look at the declaration of the entire Opposition Block, this traitor block, the Fifth Column, that used to rob my country. She's used to robbing, she's used to dancing to Moscow, she's used to working for Moscow. I'm sorry! Sadly, we did not put any of them in prison. Unfortunately, this is our problem. That's what we need to work on. And we have to work, of course, to get Boyko up high, to get Shufrich up high, eventually. And you know, when the Pharisee approaches the higher, you know, that kind of bullying right over the people. You know, Mr. Shufrich, I would recommend that you speak less on Russian channels first, which is contagious. And the Ukrainian language was and will be the main language in the Ukrainian Parliament, it won't be here from Moscow, it won't be here, it won't be here, and there won't be a fifth column, your time is up. You're in the history trash! Shame on them!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u25	Colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. Replica, one minute. Shufrich, the lineup, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u26	We're on our way. Now we have witnessed the face of power. Article 10 of the Constitution, which is the norm of direct action, guarantees the right of enforcement. The use of Russian in all areas of life. You want to change -- change the Constitution. You don't like that individual people have different citizenship and you scare them, unfortunately, this is article 25 of the Constitution -- change it and demand responsibility. And the officials who hide the second passport today to escape are your colleagues, and today they have to be held criminally responsible for treason, including. As for my declaration, I am so proud that in 1998, I was chosen as a successful businessman and did not hide anything in my declaration, not like your authority, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u27	Colleagues, I'm careful that we don't collapse the youth and sports bloc in political discussions. So I'm asking everyone to take responsibility right now for the agenda. We have one ratification, then we have a youth and sports block. And I'm very much asking everyone for active and active work. And we move on to the first issue of the agenda – this is the draft of the Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement (Project "Urban Public Transport of Ukraine") between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (0139). And, colleagues, I'm asking you to support the consideration of this issue by means of a reduced procedure. Please take your jobs, please come into the hall and take your jobs, colleagues. And I ask you to vote and support the proposal for a reduced procedure, please support. I think this is going to be the general position of the hall. Please vote, vote, colleagues. [[10:47:21]] For-160. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Viktor Mikolaiovich. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! You are considering the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. We signed this loan agreement in November 2016. Objective: To contribute 200 million euros to ensure the stable functioning and development of urban passenger transport in the cities of Ukraine. The project is expected to involve 400 million euros in credit costs. That's 22 years of credit, the interest rate, the five-year payout. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the ratification of the agreement will open up the possibility of conducting tenders and purchases in 11 cities in Ukraine this year. In general, the Agreement provides for the purchase of new passenger transport — hundreds of trolleybuses, buses, trams, railways, and passenger infrastructure in the cities of Ukraine. That's why I'm asking you. I would like to emphasize that the treaty we signed in November, we worked in the government, the President did, two weeks ago she was registered in parliament. I also want to thank the Foreign Affairs Committee, the Parliamentary Secretariat. Within two weeks, we were working so that we could start updating passenger transport this year. And the following year, to celebrate Easter, you were able to devote your belts to new trolleybuses or buses in the cities of Ukraine at the expense of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u29	Thank you. The committee head, Hupko Hanna Mikolayevna, is invited to the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u30	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainians, honourable chairman. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on April 5, discussed the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank, introduced by the President of Ukraine, and recommended that the Supreme Council accept the project as a whole and actually ratify the financial agreement. I would really like to support the Ministry of Infrastructure that the social impact of joint European Investment Bank projects and the European Bank for Reconstruction projects is expected to be able to reduce the share of the worn-out mobility, which is now 87 percent, to 76 percent. We also hope that the volume of passenger transport by city electric transport will be increased by 200 million passengers per year. New jobs have been created, including drivers and staff. I very much hope that these beneficiaries will be expected from the project, which is mainly the utilities of Ivano-Frankivsky, Lvivsky, Sumski, Odessky, Ternopil, Kharkiv, Chernigiv City Councils, will be able to use these funds to buy buses, trams, to rebuild tram lines, and also to buy trolleybuses. And so that Ukrainian citizens in various cities can feel how, how much better transport is and how safe it becomes. And so it's also very important that citizens actually be able to see that once this agreement is ratified, the representatives of the municipal government, the municipal authorities. These funds were able to begin to be developed already this year. Because we have, as we see in other international projects, where we take loans, a very bad sample, very poorly formed process of making use of these funds, when interest drips like our debts, and we don't know how to use them. So the first tranche, I hope this year is already 20 million euros, we will be able to see quality transport. Thank you for your attention. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u31	Thank you. Colleagues: Two in, two in the opposite. Let's be very concise. Please record: two in, two in. Please, Kiral Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u32	Dear colleagues! It is imperative that this agreement be supported and ratified. Because this agreement will really ensure that important resources come to our cities. These are cities like Mikolayev, Ivano-Frankivsky, Sumi, Chernigus, Zaporozhye, Kharkiv, Kiev. These are dozens of public transportation cars, trolleybuses, trams, as well as railway cars, for the Kharkiv Metro. So I would just like to thank you for really doing a fairly operational job, working together and working together with the Ministry of Infrastructure and the European Investment Bank. And wish that they were already in the purchasing process this year. Unfortunately, once again I would like to emphasize and support the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee here, we cannot boast of similar achievements in other programmes, including those of the European Investment Bank. I would like to remind you that for over a year we have not been able to define the procedure for project selection and start implementing projects at the expense of the European Investment Bank to modernise municipal infrastructure. So this is also the money of the European Investment Bank that the Ministry of Regional Development is looking after. And I'd like to encourage them here, in the presence of government officials, to activate their work. Because there are equally important projects in equally complex municipal infrastructures in the cities of Ukraine. And this agreement needs to be voted on and supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u33	Thank you. From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! The People's Front faction will certainly support this initiative. Because it's an additional tool in restoring the mobile convoy of our cities. And as always, I want to give examples, because this agreement is an additional tool to help those councils that are helpless and cannot make such decisions. The Montenegrin City Council, an agreement was signed with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, on condition that we could have substantially upgraded the Trolleybus Park of Chernivci. Instead, the retail majority of Firtas in the Chernobyl City Council did not allow the decision to be made and denied the possibility of blacks to use new trolleybuses of any kind because there would be a transparent competition to be run by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, they did not allow this opportunity and allowed the blacks to travel on transport today, instead, they think they should buy bean trolleybuses. So the People's Front faction will once again support this bill and support the initiative for the early elections of the Town Council and the City Council. The Profortashian pro-salesmen will not rule the Blacks and plunder our hometown. This is the position of the People's Front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u35	Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u36	Please pass it on to Yuri Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u37	Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u38	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, it is clear that today the issue of urban infrastructure upgrading is one of the key issues and we should pay very much attention to it. But I would also like to point out that similar agreements involve foreign currency loans, which we will also have to pay in foreign currency, or else we will have to pay in foreign currency, and we will recall that in the last three years alone, the devaluation of the Ukrainian currency is equal to 300 percent. Why am I asking that question? Because today we are totally not using our Ukrainian internal potential, in people's hands, according to the World Bank estimates, there are about $100 billion of US dollars that are now hidden under pillows and are not working at all in the Ukrainian economy. Moreover, I would like to say that I have repeatedly raised the question of introducing a mandatory accumulation system from this high rostrum too since 2018. A pension system that would allow the Ukrainian economy to invest Ukrainian capital, which is now in Ukrainian people, and stop, and start reducing borrowing externally, and use the funds that are currently in the hands of Ukrainian people. For example, the introduction of a mandatory accrual pension system, ranging from two percent year-on-year to seven percent, will allow more than 500 billion dollars to enter the Ukrainian economy for the next ten years. These are the costs that can be used to upgrade infrastructure, build roads, and buy long and cheap loans. That is why I am addressing all parliamentarians and the government, today, when we are discussing issues, including pension reform, it is imperative that we put into order the day-to-day discussion of the introduction of the mandatory accumulation of the pension system as one of the most important ones since 2018.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u39	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u40	It is essential to include the issue of the introduction of a mandatory accumulation system of topics that can become the most powerful economic driver of domestic Ukrainian public investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u41	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko. Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u42	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will vote in favour of ratifying this loan agreement, which will allow 200 million euros to be obtained under cheap low interest rates to upgrade the urban fleet. But I'm a respected colleague, and Maxim Burbak and others have been saying that we need to do tenders and buy any transportation. I definitely disagree with you. You don't have to buy any transportation, you have to buy domestic transportation. You have to create jobs for Ukrainians when you're out buying imported equipment you're lending to foreign economies. You create jobs for foreign competitors, and you have to create jobs for Ukrainians, you have to borrow national production. So I'm going to the government, to the Ministry of Infrastructure, and I'm going to do tenders to win fair and square, but I'm going to win a national producer. I've been to Craze recently -- a huge power company, trolleybuses are made in Antonova, an airline, they're made in Lviv, they're made in Dniper, they're made in Trolleybuses. I'm asking, why do we have borrowed credit resources, and let's get out there, buy imported transport? Another question: yesterday the Prime Minister is speaking, says I'm ready to buy coal in America, in South Africa, anywhere. I don't agree with the Prime Minister for a thousand percent, because coal needs to be bought in Ukraine, jobs need to be given to Ukrainian miners, there is a need to support the country's carbon economy as well as the Ukrainian economy, and loans need to be given to cheap borrowers not abroad, but we need to radically change the monetary and credit policy of the country's Nazbank so that our national producers can take cheap, moderate loans from us, in Ukraine, to create jobs for Ukrainians, to raise wages for Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u43	Society, I want to say, in two minutes, there will be a vote. I ask all the heads of the factions to invite the deputies to the Hall, and I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies to the Hall. And now in a minute: Dudenkov and Sergey Melniczuk. In a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u44	As far as government policy is concerned, debt. And the accumulation of government debt, unfortunately, as of today, 34 billion dollars is government-guaranteed debt. As far as this project is concerned. The common thing about modernizing urban infrastructure, buying electricity is very good. But on what account? Additional credit from the European Investment Bank. At the European Investment Bank, our loan balance is already about a billion dollars. Who's going to bring it back? That's what we all need to think about. And whoever's talking about involving domestic resources, they didn't have to vote in favour of exempting only owners of external bonds, external loans, they were commercial creditors abroad, and we had to support our initiative when we said that domestic creditors also needed to be exempt from taxation for the inclusion of additional financial insiders.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u45	Sergei Melnichenko, Melnichuk, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u46	People's Will Group, Sergey Melnichuk. Dear colleagues, the "will of the people" group will necessarily vote in favour and support this bill. Because I want to fill in that Ukraine has led the corruption rating. And what we have to be happy about is every single penny they want to put in our country, we have to support it. There's a speaker on the side that tells me, so I want to fill him in on the MAN cars on the fire cars and where the money's being spent on the army, and then on every car there's 500,000 where they're going. Is that for the national manufacturer or the grandmothers you suckle like cows? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u47	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I'm asking if we can go to the hall so we can vote. Guys. Please take up your jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (No.0139) as a whole. Colleagues, in general, please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. We're voting 0139 as a whole. Please be supportive. [[11:03:56]] For 225 Now I'm going to put it on the way back and then I'm going to put it in, okay. Fellows, indeed, when each voice has a weight, take up jobs, and do not leave the hall. So I'm proposing to go back to draft Law 0139. I ask you to support this proposal to return to ratification 0139. Please vote for the return. Please vote. [[11:04:38]] For 229 229. We're back. And I'm putting again the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement (0139) as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u48	Please vote, please support. In general. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:05:05]] For 230 230-yes. Decision taken. Colleagues, before we go to youth and sport, I want to tell you that, in accordance with article 6 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we have decided that there is a need for a presence at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Heads of the National Commission, which carries out national regulation in the field of energy and utilities. Before that, I invited 12.30 to the report. But we need another procedural vote, 150 votes for us today. that we may give him the word today. So it's proposed as a rule, 20 minutes a report, 20 minutes a question from the deputies to the rapporteur, and statements from the factions. It's about the same as the last time. I need a procedural decision of 150 votes. And according to articles 28, 32 and 34 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am putting this proposal to the vote. This is a procedural decision, 150 votes, please vote and please support. We vote, colleagues, that at 12:30 today, Wolf Dmitry Volodymyrovich will perform here in the hall. Please be supportive. [[11:06:21]] For 219 219, yes. Decision taken. At 12:30 a.m., we'll move on to the hearing of Dmitri Volodymyrovich. Colleagues, let's move on to young sports. I'm asking a lot of concentration, the committee's been waiting a long time for these questions. I ask everyone to mobilize and perhaps be more concise in the discussions. So the first question is the draft Act amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports on the Recognition of National Sports (number 5324). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, for short. [[11:07:11]] For-170. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Minister of Youth and Sports Zhdanov Igor Aleksandrovitch. Mr. Igor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u49	Your Honor, the presiding officer, the distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! During the years of independence, Ukraine began to regenerate and develop the types of sport that have grown from Ukrainian traditions, including the restoration of species based on age - old folk traditions, including fighting gocks, rescues, hand-to-hand combat, horting, and so on. The purpose of the bill is to define at the legislative level the concept of national sports, because nowhere else, as in Ukraine, will these types of sports develop. And that's why we need to adopt the amendments to the Ukrainian Physical Culture and Sports Act in order for the Ministry to act and develop these kinds of sports. Please support us, because this is a very large component of national and patriotic education, and the rebirth of the national traditions on which our Ukrainian nation is based, based on our culture based on our sport. On the other hand, I would like to support the two bills introduced by the people's deputies, which will be discussed later, are amendments to article 90 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which will allow funding from the local level for the travel of athletes to all-country competitions. It's a very important bill that's waiting on the spot. And to support that bill by Mr. Krulk on the introduction of European Council standards for youth centres and decentralization for youth work. This is a European approach that needs to be supported and accepted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u50	Thank you. The report invites the deputy head of the Silantiev Committee, Denis Olegovich. Please, Mr. Dennis. It's very concise. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u51	Yeah, yeah. Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, committee at its meeting on 6 December 2016, reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport on the Recognition of National Sports (No. 5324), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and reports on the following. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports, in particular article 1 of the Act, to add the concept of "national sports" and "national sport". In addition, the amendments to article 20 of the Law provide that in the absence of an appropriate international sports federation, the status of a national sports federation that promotes the development of national sports is granted for the decision of the central executive body that implements national politics in the field of physical culture and sports. The chief scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine made a number of remarks to the bill. During the discussion, members of the committee adopted a legislative initiative of the government aimed at defining at the legislative level the concept of "national sport" and the characteristics of sports federations that contribute to the development of national sports, the promotion of national cultural traditions and the patriotic upbringing of young people, the promotion of healthy lifestyles and physical culture and sports among Ukrainians. At the same time, members of the committee made a number of proposals for a bill that would be taken into account in their second reading. As a result of the review, the committee adopted a decision: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport on the definition of a national sport (number 5324), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on the basis of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis. I'd like your support, Your Honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u52	Thank you. My colleagues, I want to inform you that we have seven questions about youth and sports and the protection of children's rights. I'm going to include the discussion, but I have a big request that we speak very briefly, just to those who want to speak, very briefly. Please: Two in, two in the opposite. Very short, colleagues. He's handing over the rosemary, isn't he, Yuzkova? Please, Yuri Chizmar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u53	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party. Dear colleagues, it is clear that the new types of sport, however, which have traditions in Ukraine, should be developed, but we should not forget those kinds of sports that exist today and in a neglected state. I'd like to raise the problem by taking advantage of the minister's presence, of the kind of sport that involves military and patriotic training of young people, because we understand that we are a warring country. Today, for example, sports such as parachutes, airplanes, and piloting require a great deal of land around our district centers. These land plots are easy for the builders to start taking them away, starting to build up, the large rental fees that are set up for these areas, not allowing these airports to pay and keep this property properly. So there's an emergency problem, for example, Teaka Airport, which has traditionally prepared us, paratroopers, planners, pilots, but for the third year now they can't at the Transport Ministry certify this airport, they can't pay rent, because those 50 hectares that are under their control, that's a very large fee for a sports school. We have to get rid of the rents of all the airports that today provide sports schools, airlines, airmen and paratroopers, and thus allow our young people today to join those sports that are not only beautiful in their form, but also of a military patriotic nature. So, Mr. Secretary, the head of the Youth and Sports Committee, please pay attention to this and take a look at the question at Teaka Airport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u54	Thank you. Rosenblatt Borislav Solomonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u55	Please let John Sporish know. Yeah, Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u56	You're arguing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u57	Honorable Presidium, honourable national MPs, of course, all questions relating to sports, young people, I think there is no difference between factions and others, we all have to clearly support. Because it is the patriotic upbringing of our youth that depends on the bill. Today, we have heard from the minister about sports such as combat reptiles and handguns, a Cossack fight, and so forth. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the kinds of sports that will provide our young with patriotic training. And we should all vote for him. And it is our Supreme Council that today's bill can give direction for the first time in history to new sports. Of course, they will not yet become Olympics, but their popularity also enables the patriotic upbringing of our young ones. So I think that everyone today should unanimously accept the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u58	Thank you, thank you for your sophistication, thank you for your understanding. Please, Eutusek. He's got a word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u59	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, those who have now appealed to the Head of the Supreme Council about what can be voted on without discussion. It's very good that you support such initiatives, but I think that the content of the bill requires a wider disclosure of the issue, because now we have an appropriate very acute situation, we have Donbas. And it's in a complex, systematic way that we can change the consciousness of those people who are, unfortunately, behind the passport of the Ukrainians, but appeal to another state, in this case, the Aggressor Putin and the Russian Federation, that he should introduce his troops there. I know exactly that from an ordinary gymnastics coach to a minister of youth and sport, everyone has to generate it on their own example -- and the minister shows it by his own example -- to want to involve young people in a healthy way of life. That's very good. But there are types of sports like national species, where we clearly understand that the foundation and basis in their conduct are the very national cultural values. One of these kinds of sports we have a kind of fighting gok and Vladimir Stepanovich Pilate as the founder of this kind of sport clearly demonstrates how national and cultural traditions can bring up our young people. I've seen these competitions in the Plains, in the Breznishteen, where Alexander Zajchenko runs them. That's what I'm trying to tell you. These contests begin with the Ukrainian prayer, where clearly the children with the clergy begin the fine contests where the Cossack spirit is brought up. Where they go out dressed in embroidery and in robes still worn by our great-grandparents. So I'm going to say right away that Fatherland is going to support all the bills today in the context of physical culture for young people and sports.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u60	In two minutes, the vote will take place. Please invite everyone to the hall. From the People's Front, Medunica's handing over Velikichovich. Please, Mikola the Great.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! I address all deputies, regardless of factions and political orientation. I'm asking you to support a bill that will support the very Ukrainian, the kind of sport that is shaped by Ukrainian traditions. In order not to take too long, because we still have a number of issues ahead of us that relate to youth policy and financing the sport sphere itself, I urge everyone to support this bill and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u62	Thank you. And the last performance. Pauline, one minute. And let's move on to making a decision. Please take up jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u63	Dear colleagues! It's a good thing that the Supreme Council has finally come to the consideration of laws that relate to the development of physical culture, sports, support for young people, the protection of children's rights. Because, unfortunately, these policies of state are extremely important, which form tomorrow, and they have become secondary to the work of good authority. As far as the bill is concerned, by supporting it in fact, we cannot vote in its form because nothing today prevents the Ministry or the Cabinet of Ministers from supporting national sports. Moreover, the bill would in no way allow for the strengthening of State support for national sports. This requires an effective management system and requires money. Unfortunately, neither the management system nor the money to support national sports are available today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u64	Colleagues, I'll give everyone the opportunity to speak on the following bill. Right now, I'm asking you to take up jobs, concentrate, colleagues. Please, this is a position supported by all speaking factions. And we're moving on to making a decision, colleagues. Please take up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports on the Recognition of National Sports (5324) just as a basis, colleagues. All amendments and suggestions can be made between the first and the second readings. 5324 is based. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support 5,324 on a base. Vote. [[11:20:57]] For 218. Not all of them have made it. Let me invite you to the hall. Colleagues, I see, yes, please. I'm asking you to show me the factions. Well, obviously, aging for youth and sports would be worth voting for. I'm asking you to mobilize, take up jobs. Let's support the Youth and Sports Committee, colleagues. I'm asking you to come in and take some jobs, would you please invite the deputies to the Ready Room? I'm proposing to go back to consideration 5324. Please support, please vote in favour of the return to debate 5324. Ready, colleagues? So we vote, every vote is important, I ask everyone to prepare and vote for the return to 5324. Please vote, please support. [[11:22:27]] For 228 We're back. And now I'm putting a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports on the recognition of national sports 5324 as a basis, colleagues. Please mobilize, each voice. On the basis of that, please support, I ask you to vote carefully for the basis. Please support the Committee on Youth and Sports and vote. Colleagues, every vote has weight, please vote, vote, please support, please vote, vote, colleagues, on the basis. [[11:23:16]] For 229 Decision taken. My colleagues, I think it's an important decision, there's a lot of them in the hall, and I've been doing my own thing for many years as a gopak, fighting gopak, and I'm sure we've given a new breath today so that we can get a new level of national sport. I welcome everyone to an important decision. We move on to the next issue of the agenda: this is again the issue of youth and sport, 2223rd draft of the Law amending article 90 of the Code of Budget for Ukraine (for financing the field of physical culture and sport). And, colleagues, I'm making an offer. For the summary procedure please vote, please support. Short procedure 2223a, please vote. [[11:24:24]] For-163 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Silantiev Denis Olegovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u65	Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! This bill has been drafted by members of our committee on the proposals of the expert council and the sports community, and the implementation of the basic principles for the formation of the entire physical culture and sports system is hampering the inadequacy of certain provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports to the requirements of the Ukrainian Budget Code. Articles that determine the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the district budgets for physical culture and sports do not include spending on the activities of Olympic training centres: the establishment of regular sports teams in the regions, reserve sports, the maintenance of specialized educational institutions of the sport profile, the Sports for All Physical Health Centres, sports facilities, and so on. That is why the bill proposes to amend article 90 of the Ukrainian Budget Code by adding to the costs incurred by the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the district budgets the cost of maintaining higher sports schools, the Olympic training centres, the centres of physical health of the population of the Republic of Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the regional significance, the regular sports teams of reserve sport, the preparation of the region’s collective teams to participate in sporting competitions at the state level, the sports facilities of the Republic of Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the region. Thus, the proposed changes will add the possibility of funding the objects and measures at the expense of the district budgets. Dear colleagues, this bill specifies the direction that can be financed in terms of developing physical culture and sports. They don't need any extra budget, the district budgets are ready to do it, but the bill won't allow it. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u66	Thank you. I invite the co-rapporteur, the head of the committee's committee on the budget of Kulichenk, the national deputy of John Kulichenk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Budget Affairs at its meeting on November 12th, 15th, reviewed Bill 2223a. In view of the new approaches to the formation of local budgets, the new transport policy in relations between local budgets and the State budget and other budgetary measures, cultural and sports expenditure in accordance with article 90 of the Code of Budgets is carried out exclusively at the expense of local budgets. Therefore, the provision of designated facilities and the conduct of sporting activities should be made on the basis of the financial capacity of the relevant local budgets. The Ministry of Finance considers the adoption of the bill appropriate, noting that the corresponding expenditure is already foreseen in the local budgets. Following a review of the bill, the committee adopted the following decision: recommending to the Supreme Council draft Law 2223a to adopt as a basis and as a whole as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u68	Thank you. And I'm asking you to prepare the people's deputies to participate in the discussion. Please record for the discussion. May I have a word with the People's Deputy Alexander Briginz's Block of Peter Dustenk?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u69	Please pass the word to Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u70	Please, National Deputy Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u71	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. In fact, it is sad that the minister of youth and sport, instead of being the minister of reform, is a minister who will decentralize youth politics and sports, introduces and submits bills that actually do not decide anything. The previous, voted on the basis of you, the law does not decentralize or provide any more funds to the federations, it does not give any more money to the sports committee, it will not increase the number of children involved in national sports, it will not change anything except the authority, the authority, which the ministry will only increase. Sports and cultural traditions, Mr. Minister, are in 4857. Be a reformer, we're ready to support you, let's conduct financial decentralization in the field of sport. Let's do the same as in medicine, do we want to pay for a cot or do we want to pay for a real service? We want to go through: money goes to a child in education -- so let's do it in the sports sphere, not the wind, not the air, we're going to finance, but the real service that is actually the area of sport. Of course it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u73	What was the exception?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u74	I'm sorry. Turn on the microphone, there is no time to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u75	In fact, this law needs to be supported because it removes the disagreement that exists in the budget code, in line with the decentralization already carried out in the area of financing of children's sports schools and sports schools of the Olympic Reserve. Therefore, it is necessary to vote in favour of this law. And we expect 4857 (worked) from the Cabinet of Ministers with real reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u76	Thank you. And I invite you to speak with the Radical Party of Oleg Lášek of the People's Deputy Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u77	Igor Mosiyczuk, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska, Poltavščina Honorable colleagues of the Ukrainian people are an extremely important bill that we are currently considering, since we can save on anything but on the health of the nation, not on the future of Ukrainians, not on the future of Ukrainian children. The most important strategy of the Radical Party is to raise a healthy nation, a healthy young generation. This bill, proposed by the committee, offers and allows financing of sports facilities in areas where most Ukrainians live, not in a capital where the best and best sports institutions are concentrated, especially in areas where young people need support, exactly where we have alcoholism and drug addiction to carry sports, to carry a healthy way of life for the future Ukrainian nation. My colleague Denis Silantiev and I visited a sports complex in my hometown of Poltavska, where our paralympics, who bring many Olympic awards to the country, are proud and proud. Now if we support this bill, from the district budget, this sport complex will be able to finance it, because we've been complaining about its underfunding. Therefore, we urge all fellow members of the national MPs to support this bill, to support a healthy Ukrainian nation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u78	Goose, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u79	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, dear Head! This Supreme Council has one very sad tradition, it's every year in the deep night to adopt the budget and the related tax laws, and then to figure out what they've adopted and corrected the most violent mistakes, and not even for one year, but for many years. Because this bill is trying to correct the mistake that was made during the night vote back in 2014. Then, I would like to remind you, among many other things, the financing of children's sports schools has been transferred from the Social Insurance Fund to local budgets and, as is the case in Ukraine, much has been lost along the way. As a result, 100 children's sports schools have already been closed in Ukraine, more than 30,000 children have lost access to sports. Not surprisingly, more than 70 percent of Ukrainian children have health problems. The bill allows the district budgets to finance higher sports schools and district health centres. We will support this bill because Ukrainians have the right to engage in physical culture and sports. And we hope that the shameful practice of voting for the budget at night will eventually end.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u80	Thank you. Colleagues, this is the last time we'll discuss this. In two minutes. Then, yes, yet. Anyway, in two or three minutes, I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. And I'm asking the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite delegates from the towers into the hall. So, Melniczuk Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u81	People's Will Group, Sergey Melnichuk. The "will of the people" group will support the bill, as it supports military and patriotic education in fact in all regions of Ukraine. And we're happy to help our young people, so we're happy to do it. And I want to say last time. Before the last bill, we weren't allowed to speak. I was going to say that, for example, after the Cossacks, there was the world championship in Kharkiv. And the team representing Ukraine won 12 gold prizes, and that was the achievement. And we have the money that's in the state, at least to go to those clubs, those sports schools that have these achievements, and actually it's all on the naked enthusiasm and the sponsorship of people; the athletes, the teachers, the teachers go with their hands out and ask for military patriotic training. So the state has to be more involved, because our enemy that we're fighting in the war right now is. He's putting a lot more money on us and running more propaganda. We have to invest money in our young people, in military patriotic education and propaganda. And the state must be ahead of everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u82	Thank you. Colleagues, one minute from Fatherland, Igor Lucenko. And I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. Colleagues, please, there will be a vote in a minute. Please turn on the microphone, Lucenko Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! The Fatherland faction is very supportive of this bill. Of course, the military patriotic, national patriotic upbringing of young people is impossible without the mechanisms that exist in sports. But at the same time, one cannot help but say the following. First, there is no military and patriotic education and training for young people through sport in Ukraine at all today. This is the position of the Ministry of Profiles, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, which has abolished military-applicable sports. They're actually not here today. And by the way, the bill that's in the Supreme Council, which is currently voting, is not going to solve these problems, because it's just a condition for military sports, not for a growing youth who has to be trained to be a defender of the country. So once again, "Fatherland" supports this bill, but it highlights the enormous problems in this area.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u84	Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I ask you not to leave the hall, but, rather, to enter the hall. Please invite everyone into the hall and take up jobs. Please. And I am voting on the draft Act amending article 90 of the Ukrainian Budget Code (for financing the physical culture and sports sphere) (number 2223a) on the basis and overall of the Committee's proposal. Please take up your jobs, colleagues, and I'd like to support you. We'll support the Youth and Sports Committee, support youth and sports. Please vote. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:39:36]] For 233 Decision taken. Colleagues, we move on to the next issue of the agenda, this is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (with regard to the implementation of Council of Europe standards for youth centres and the decentralization of youth work). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure, please. [[11:40:12]] For-174 Decision taken. And I'd like to invite you to the report by Velikochovich Mikola Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, I have the honour to present this bill from the author's team, which includes representatives of various factions. The bill is designed to introduce the Council of Europe standards for youth centres provided for in the European Charter on Youth Participation in Local and Regional Life, as well as a sign of quality for the Council of Europe youth centres, addressing issues related to youth policy. With a view to resolving this issue, the draft law proposes that local self - government authorities, within their own authority, should be able to set up youth centres to provide informational resources and the interaction of public utilities, institutions, public associations, and charitable organizations with regard to the implementation of public policy in the youth field. In particular, the relevant amendments are proposed to the laws of Ukraine on promoting the social development and development of young Ukraine and on local self-government in Ukraine. The draft law defines the mandate of the central executive authority to ensure the formation of public policy in the field of youth, physical culture and sport and addresses the issue of international cooperation in the field of youth through the amendment of article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on Promoting the Social Development and Development of young Ukraine. But the corresponding addition of the law to the provisions of article 15-1 on international cooperation in the field of youth. The bill is designed to improve the implementation of youth policy, the protection of youth rights, its comprehensive development, social protection, and the promotion of active participation in public life. These are: enabling local self-government bodies within their own powers to create youth centres, to define the powers of the central executive authority, which ensures the formation of public policies in the field of youth, physical culture and sport, and to address the issue of international cooperation in the field of sport. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism decided to recommend it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u86	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u87	It was suggested that the draft Ukrainian Law on the introduction into certain laws of Ukraine (for the introduction of the Council of Europe standards for youth centres) should be considered in the first reading and adopted as a basis and as a whole with the following changes. In chapter two, paragraph 1, of the bill, replace the words and figures: "January 1, 2017" with the words "from the day of its publication." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u88	Thank you. Welcome to the report, Sporish Ivan Dmitrovich. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u89	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, at its meeting on March 21, this year, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws, Legislative Acts of Ukraine (Registration No. 6048). The bill proposes to amend the laws of Ukraine: "To promote the social development and development of young Ukraine", "About local self-government", "About youth and children's social organizations". The purpose of the bill is to introduce the European Council standards for youth centres set out in the revised European Charter on Youth Participation in Local and Regional Life, addressing issues related to youth policy. This bill is supported by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Social Policy. Supports this bill by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. After all, the small amount of money that is needed in this direction is set aside. The committee also decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill on registration number 6048 as a basis and as a whole with the changes that Mikola Veliczovich has just presented to me. So please, my fellow Members, support this bill 6048 as a basis and as a whole with editorial rights, once again the same as that expressed by Mikola Veliczovich. Ladies and gentlemen, we've long ago had these youth centers, we have them, but we don't have a legislative base. We're supposed to provide a legislative base with you today. Thank you and please support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u90	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to have a brief discussion. Please: Two in, two in the opposite. And please, very concisely. Dombrovsky, please, Alexander. He's handing over Kishkar, isn't he? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u91	No, I'm handing over the microphone to the National MP of Sporish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u92	Yes, thank you very much. Please, Paul Kishkar. Paul Kishkar. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u93	Thank you very much to colleague Dombrowski and Mr. John for the opportunity to speak. Indeed, it is the law that has long been awaited by youth centers, and it actually fully regulates this area, and it is a pity that Kabdin does not introduce these bills. And we all have to thank John Krulk for his work, for his advocacy work, and thank the committee very much for supporting this legislative initiative. It's a hint, Mr. Minister, that you need to make such bills and introduce them, because this is the very question of youth policy that you're responsible for, you need to focus on this, not manipulate the distribution of funds between sports federations. When you mentioned today national sports and national patriotic training, you forgot that you were underfunded by the karate Federation, for example, which is an Olympic sport, and you know very well why you've underfunded this kind of sport because the President of the Federation is punishing you in opposition to the fact that you've been doing nothing for two and a half years to reform the field of sport. You've done the same thing with the Water Polo Federation, you've done the same thing with dozens of other kinds of sports that just aren't subordinate to you and don't play one game with you. Please submit 4857, meet the requirements of the ratified Supreme Council of the Olympic Charter, which foresees the autonomy of sports, give appropriate powers to the federations and control them – this is your primary function. We're waiting for you with reform laws in this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u94	Thank you. Please, Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u95	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say right away that we should all point out that this is the implementation of the standards of the Council of Europe, which means that if we vote on this bill today, which provides for a portion of the funding from the local budgets, the second part of which will be provided with grants, these are not loans that need to be returned. And for today, I want to thank John Krulkov for his system of work, which he is implementing in youth policy, the entire team of authors who, along with the public organizations, have done this beautiful document. Because young people's policies and the implementation of their positions today are taken care of both by local self-government authorities and by the authorities of the executive branch, and by public organizations, but there is no proper interaction between these branches of government between them. And that's why our young people are losing, of course, communication. They cannot fully participate in public life in international communication. Thus, such laws are being developed. I'd say it's not a political law that needs to be supported. This law clearly provides for the establishment of local governments of youth centers that will allow our young people to gather, to discuss urgent issues, that is, to participate in a permanent adult society. For example, as the city’s head of Sarna, I take the initiative of the very youthful council at the city’s head. That's why we need to do this, and I call upon all, honourable colleagues, to vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u96	Wait a second. The Radical Party is Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u97	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. Dear colleagues, it is unfortunate that when the Parliament deals with the questions of physical culture, sports, education of our people, minimum attention, MPs in Parliament are hardly there, and those who are not listening because they are not interested. In fact, you don't want to look in the mirror, you don't want to see your future: what will the Ukrainian nation be like if you don't put the foundation of a healthy way of life, of developing a physical culture, of sport, of a nation of degradants, of alcoholics, of drug addicts, and of the maximum size of the United Nations forecast, there will be 20 million people left in Ukraine by 2050. What needs to be done to change this trend, this catastrophic forecast for the Ukrainian nation? Money needs to be invested today, not in offshore, not in corrupt schemes, not in other questionable matters, but in education, medicine, physical culture, and a healthy lifestyle. So the Radical Party faction requires the government to radically increase expenditure on physical culture and sports, so that in every village we have at least a ministadion, so that every center has children's schools, athletes, so that there are at least pools in every area, because people grow up, children grow up, they never see the pool in their life, the way I've ever been in boarding school. A healthy nation, an educated nation, is the guarantee of our country's development, its success in today's global world. We will have health, knowledge, competitiveness, and otherwise, as they say: "As stupid and sick, we don't need either ourselves or the people." That's what Ukrainians are supposed to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u98	The People's Front is Mikola Amazanov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u99	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. You know, colleagues, today we're very often covered in good goals, good emotions, and sometimes we want to wrap them in a very bad envelope. And that's exactly what the bill is about. For example, when some of the authors of this bill very often like to point out that the negative conclusion of the Science and Technology Administration is true. Why is no one paying attention to him today? I'm just going to quote the end of it. "A similar text to the draft Act amending certain legislative acts on the improvement of specific provisions of youth policy under registration number 1248 was reviewed by the Supreme Council on 18th of this year and found no support and was rejected." And I'm going to quote as a lawyer for education part two of article 107. "A bill or a draft, which repeats it in essence, shall not be submitted at the current and subsequent sessions of the relevant vocation. The renegade bill is being removed from the review and with due reference to it in the database of draft electronic and computer-based drafts of the Supreme Council website." What do we see today? Dear colleagues, in January of this year, we've been looking at such a very specific bill that our expert administration insists on, if we don't trust him, let's let them all go free and we won't listen to them at all, and we'll let them go. If we trust him, let's listen to this and not wrap good ideas in a bad envelope. And today, I stress that if we don't now respond to the regulatory committee, we will have to find out that we started with deception and violation of the rules of the Rules. Therefore, despite the many observations that have been made during the consideration of this bill in January, the same absolutely, and despite the negative conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office, we are today putting it into the agenda, voting, and other important bills that are passed without breaking the rules of the Rules, we are not voting for any reason. That is why I ask the Head of Parliament to approve.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u100	I would like to point out that the list of issues that are formed in the blocs are formed by the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and this list of issues has been formed by the Head and the Committee on Youth and Sports. Please, Sergey Melniczuk, one minute. And, colleagues, in two minutes there will be a decision-making process, please all come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u101	People's Will Group, Sergey Melnichuk. A very important bill and it certainly needs to be adopted because old centers that we have inherited from the Soviet Union have already survived and our young generation needs to be brought up on the principles of patriotism and Christian morality. And it's about bringing up our new heroes who have now emerged in the course of the Russian-Ukrainian war, on heroes who have been forgotten their own time by Soviet pseudo-story, that we have to raise and teach our future generation. And on the basis of the previous speaker, I'll tell you how many times have been voted on the Special Confiscation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u102	Turn on the microphone. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! The Opposition Block believes that government youth policy should be one of the key priorities of national action. The State is obliged to create all the conditions for a young person to be able to develop and succeed in his own country. Sadly, it is a lonely bill that affects a young person in one way or another. He does not fully solve all problems. Indeed, youth centers could become the hubs through which a young person could gain experience, knowledge, skills, and success. Regrettably, there are serious remarks to be made. before the bill's structure. At the same time, I think we need to give way and we need to allow this law to develop. And it's also very important that I stress to the Minister the need to create a system of sectoral decentralization, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u104	Thank you. And the last performance is Victor Pinzenick. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs, and we'll make a decision now. Please, one minute, Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u105	Honorary colleagues who provide for this law: create youth centers with authorities and finance. Put them on the budget. Question one: why can't any social youth organizations be involved in this youth work? All should have access to solutions for young people. Secondly, the budget should not support the institution, it should finance the product, the result, the projects to which any organisation is entitled. So if you want to adopt this law as a whole, I ask you to consider two of the following principles of position. First, any youth centre has the right to access money, and therefore the funding of youth centres from the budget -- this rule has to be removed; and secondly, funding has to be made through programs, youth programs that have the right to participate in any organisation. Because in this version, where the bill is drafted, there is a risk of creating political youth organizations that will be funded by some political forces from the budget. With the rights that I've heard, we can vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u106	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking you to take up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (for the implementation of the Council of Europe standards for youth centres and the decentralization of youth work) (No. 6048). I'll put it on a base first. Those who support this proposal are asked to vote on the basis of 6048. Vote, colleagues, 6048 as a basis. [[11:59:20]] For a hundred and I'll put it on the way back. Please come into the hall, take your jobs. So I'm voting on a proposal for a bill amending some laws of Ukraine 6048 to go back to its consideration. Please vote 6048 back to the table. Please vote. Please vote for the return. [[12:00:09]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. There aren't enough voices. So he suggested in general, we can't even go through with it. [[Noise Nodes]] Fellows, let's get back to the committee for work. Colleagues, let this unite the hall. Is that how it works? Colleagues, I ask you to unite around the proposal to send to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. Colleagues, I ask you to support me, send me to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, let's support this proposal so we don't lose the bill. So I'm voting on draft Law 6048 to send to the committee for re-reading. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[12:01:16]] For-198 I'll make the final offer, colleagues. And I ask you to come into the hall, not to go out, but to come in from the hall. Next, return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further processing. Colleagues, let us unite around this proposal so that we do not lose the law. I'm asking you to take your seats, I'm asking you to prepare for the vote, come into the hall, please. And I'm voting on the proposal for a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine (for the introduction of European Council standards for youth centres and the decentralization of youth work) (No. 6048) to return the right of legislative initiative to work. Please vote, please support me, colleagues, so we don't lose the bill, please support. Voting, voting, colleagues. [[12:02:26]] For 193 The solution. Draft Law 6048 has been rejected. Colleagues, we've been through sports and youth politics, but we haven't reached the issue of child rights, and that's too bad. We'll consider the possibility when we can go through this block of questions. Now, according to the Rules, we have time for a break, and I'm a 30-minute break until 12:35. I remind you that at 12:35 we will be listening to Wolf Dmitry Volodymyrovich, asking everyone to come to the hall to continue our work at 12:35. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u107	Colleagues, break time is over. A statement from two factions came to the fore, but they are ready to replace the break from the rostrum. This is the Self-Help faction and the Fatherland faction. And I invite you to the rostrum, Yegor Sobolev. Please, 3 minutes Egor Sobolev. Then we go to the report of the head of the National Commission. Please, Jegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u108	In view of all the national MPs. Fathers, wives, and sisters of our captives began to come to Parliament yesterday. They are very upset, upset, and feel that many officials of our nation are not doing the work they are supposed to do to free their family. And they have a request to the Ukrainian Parliament. They say our husbands, our children, our brothers have no status. They are not even detained, they are violently held by other Ukrainian citizens under international and Ukrainian legislation. And the reason is that there is still no recognition of war by war occupied territories. And they're asking to meet with the leaders of the political forces, and they're asking to meet with the national MPs who are willing to listen to them and are willing to help them get out as soon as possible, to return to the free part of Ukraine. Such a meeting with all the national deputies who wish will take place today at 5 p.m. on Sadowie Street, 3A, in Hall 330. A request to all of you to come there, who now hears me, and to convey to your colleagues in political power. On behalf of Self-Help, he wanted to point out to all of us that we need to complete our own case, which he promised us, especially last week, to investigate how Yuri Doluban came to the Supreme Council. A person whose conduct in 2014 was now investigated by the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office and the Kiev Prosecutor's Office. Mr. Speaker, I remind you that on Thursday last week, you personally told us that within two days, the results of the parliamentary investigation would be published. It's a big request to do it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u109	I said all the explanations would be given. And as far as I know, all the explanations are already given to the regulatory committee on this incident, Yegor. What the camera and I were supposed to do, I personally wrote the explanatory note, wrote the explanatory note, and all the documents were already filed with the regulatory committee. Thank you. Colleagues, let's get to the report. I remind you that today we have a report by the head of the National Commission, which is conducting state regulation in the areas of energy and utilities. And I invite you to the report by Vuka Dmitr Volodymyrovich. Let me remind you, we voted in favour of the rules: 20 minutes -- report, 20 minutes -- questions from the national MPs, and then statements from factions and closing words. So this is the time that we can, I think, just like the last Wednesday, thoroughly discuss this issue and recommend certain conclusions accordingly. I'd like to invite you to the address of Dmitri Volodymyrovich. I allowed these diagrams and tables to be used by the National Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u110	Good afternoon! Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Thank you for inviting me to report on the work of the 2016 commission. Your attention will be given to four key themes. This is transparency in organizing the work of the commission, introducing the Regulatory Act, what steps have been taken to meet consumers, what are the successes in reforming the sector, which are priorities, and the answers to the relevant issues that have been happening lately. In fact, when it comes to the report, in recent years it has been virtually unchanged and has had the character of such a large statistical collection, from year to year, the same. Last year we did our first report to a commission that looks modern, contains real priorities in work, achievements and results of reforms. So today we're going to go into even more comfortable format when all the information about the work of the commission is going to be on the flash drive and it's going to be passed on to the profile committee. As far as the report is concerned, it was formally approved until April 1, 2017, last year, and submitted to the Supreme Council. The work of the commission begins with a day’s work, and much attention is given to publicity and transparency. If we were only obliged to publish the agenda before the adoption of the National Commission Act, we now publish not only the agenda but also the materials before the meeting, the reasons for the decision, the draft decisions in advance. There's a calendar on the commission's website, you can see it on the presentation slide. Through a calendar, you can find all this information by means of a convenient form, as well as register at an open meeting to come and participate in it personally. Since last year, last year, in September 2015, the commission organized an online broadcast of its meetings. It was not a requirement of any law, it was our desire to involve as many people as possible in an open, transparent discussion of the decisions of the commission. After the Regulatory Act has been approved, we also publish and access to the archive of meetings, which is available on the Commission's website. The Commission also adheres to all legislative requirements regarding the procedure for the preparation of decisions that bear the hallmarks of regulatory acts. Today, there is a clear, transparent procedure that includes: the publication of a draft decision for 1 month; the collection of written proposals; the publication of all comments made to the commission; the publication of all grounds for accounting or rejection of written proposals and only after that decision is one proposed for approval at an open meeting of the commission. Financial independence is even an important element of the independence of the commission or foundation. The law that was passed by the national deputies provides for the financing of the commission’s activities through regulatory contributions. In order for this tool to start the commission to take all the steps it depends on it: it approved the licensee's register to be the payer of this contribution; it confirmed the order in which these contributions are to be calculated. The only question that remains unresolved and depends on the Supreme Council is to amend the Budget Code. The commission has repeatedly addressed both the government and the heads of the Supreme Council’s committees of profile to review the bill as quickly as possible. Financial independence will only be possible if changes are made to the budget code. The commission also successively advocates transparent purchases of licensees that it regulates. With the introduction of the Public Procurement Act, joint arrangements were organized with the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, conducting all necessary training and presentations for licensees. And to reinforce this issue, a decision was made by the commission on the mandatory use of the system transparently by all licensees back in 2016. In addition, to implement article 17 of the Regulatory Act, we arranged for the operational development of licensing conditions. Nearly 90 percent of the required licensing conditions have already been approved. In the six spheres they are fully approved and completed in two sectors. There's only one sector in the final line. Important innovations have been made in each of the activities regulated by the commission when licensing conditions are approved. I want to present them on the example of utilities. First of all, decentralization of tariff authorisations is the mandatory use of ProZorro in purchasing, auditing financial reporting for the highest licensees, protecting critical infrastructure and creating call centres for customer service. We are confident that these steps will allow consumers to improve their quality, and we are confident that local authorities will be more actively involved in regulation. And I suggest a short video on the decentralization of power in the communal sphere. Please. [[Video Roller View]] To date, local authorities have been heavily authorized to regulate tariffs, so that they can become more involved in this process, we place 70 percent of the licensees in heat supply and almost two thirds in water supply. State control. According to the law, the commission carries out tests to organize its work, approved criteria, and the risk of which licensees are at risk when tested. In 2016 alone, 215 checks have been carried out, removing 1.1 billion dollars from the tariff structure, i.e. reduced tariffs by 1.1 billion dollars. In addition, 6 billion dollars has been set aside in case of failure to implement measures that have been approved. I would like to emphasize that the commission takes a principled position on infringements, and all of them, before it became mandatory, are published on the commission’s website. And you might point out that the largest number of violations we find in the electricity sector in state-owned enterprises, in some of them we've made more than 50 references to law enforcement. What steps the Commission has taken to meet consumers. First of all, this is a systematic and consistent work and in the last year, I'd like to show you six important years that have been done. First, the Consumer Access to Tariff Information Act has been drafted, which has been voted on and supported by the Supreme Council. The website of the commission was converted from a site that looked like MS-DOS 2 years ago to a site that is now a leader and takes second place among all government authorities. Each decision of an important commission is accompanied by information material. Over 250,000 citizens have been familiar with these information materials. Information was also launched on the typical consumption of energy resources that allows consumers to assess their energy efficiency. In March, all natural gas consumers will receive bills of consumption not only in cubic metres of natural gas but also in kilowatt hours that will remove all questions about gas quality. In addition, the annual consumer information system has been approved. What does this order mean? It means that, by all types of services, by electricity, by natural gas, by thermal energy, by centralized water supply and by sanitation, each consumer gets information about their own consumption volumes, the cost of services, the structure of tariffs affecting their consumption volumes, the information on how much more or less they consume than the same consumer in their area, in Ukraine or in the neighbouring country, which tariff structure in other countries, which is equal to tariffs in other countries, thus reducing their account? In addition, last year we destroyed Oblenergo's monopoly for selling zone counters. This allows consumers to save, already 400,000 consumers use zone accounting. Over the past year alone, plus 150,000 citizens of Ukraine have installed such counters, saved costs, helped Ukraine's energy system optimize its load and thus reduce its carbon dioxide emissions. After simplifying the pace of installation, we've grown almost twice this year, we've seen about 230,000 new subscribers that make up the meters. In addition, compensation for non - quality services, electricity, was approved last year. Each year, nearly half a million citizens ask questions about the provision of electrical services of inadequate quality. Now, after this order has been approved, between 50 and a thousand dollars per case can be obtained as a discount on your electricity bill. We also do tens of thousands of phone calls a month. In order for everyone to be more comfortable with the mail monitors, we started the mail tracking service online. All you have to do is enter the registration number on the commission’s website, protect yourself from work, and get immediate information about the registration date, the responsible unit, the processing date, or the reply you have already received. In the area of sector reform, I would like to put a stop to three fundamental laws: the Regulatory Act, the Natural Gas Market Act and the Electricity Market Act. I want to thank all the national MPs who, after 24 vacuums, still supported the National Commission Act and now we can work absolutely in the legal field. And for today, all the tasks that have been put before the committee have been carried out. The only question that has not yet been settled is the change to the Budget Code. Once again, I invite the people's deputies to support the amendments to the Budget Code in order to ensure the financial independence of the Commission. Under the Natural Gas Markets Act, in general, the natural gas sector almost two years ago, on 9 April, 290 National Deputies passed the Natural Gas Market Act, all basic legislation is in existence, all secondary legislation adopted by the regulator, but it is still necessary to make point changes to the laws in order to launch the market fully. Another issue that is important for this sector is the final liberalisation of prices. This is the authority of the government, as well as the monetaryization of subsidies at the level of the consumer. With regard to the electricity sector, the most important is, of course, the Electricity Market Act. He had been developing for a very long time only in the Supreme Council for almost a year. In our opinion, it is very necessary, it will allow the harmonisation of Ukrainian legislation, according to the requirements of the Third Energy Package, to start competition in the production market, allow consumers to choose the quality and service of the supplier. It will also allow you to prepare for the heating period 2017-2018. With the harmonisation of legislation according to the Third Energy Package, the Commission will lose much of its mandate and will focus on reforming natural monopolies. They are enshrined in the Coalition Agreement, the most important of which is the transition to stimulating tariffs in all sectors. There is clear and full support for all international donors for the transition to stimulating tariffs. Please show a letter signed by a joint six key donors and partners of Ukraine, which includes the European Union, the largest creditor of Ukraine, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank, the International Finance Corporation, the Energy Co-operation Secretariat, which strongly supports the transition to stimulating tariffs in the electricity distribution sector, and most importantly, prior to privatisation. We are also working together with USAID to launch this reform in the central water supply and water supply sector, as well as heat supply. What does this reform do to consumers? It will first allow investment to be invested to rebuild the sector, it will allow energy efficiency to be stimulated, and it will also allow consumers to improve quality. I'd like to get to the point. All energy issues are unforgivable. But still, the simplest thing is street lighting. In recent times, I have heard a great deal about information that the commission has raised the cost of street lighting five times, so I will comment on more truth in this matter. In 2014, the National Deputies voted and supported a coalition agreement where the energy reform sector wrote "implementation of a moratorium on the setting of tax prices and tariffs for any category of electricity and natural gas consumers". To implement this item of the coalition agreement, the government under Arsenija Petrovich Yatzenuk adopted Decree No. 1192, which provides for the cancellation of all street lighting and electric transport benefits. This decree states that it is effective as of January 1, 2017. I would like to point out separately that in just the last few years, the amount of subsidies, cross-subsidies that industry has paid to support street lighting, has cost almost 3 billion dollars. I also want to say and make suggestions, recommendations to all local self-government authorities, that in addition to saving and implementing energy-efficient technologies, zone accounting can be used, as consumers do and at night pay less. I also want to remind all the local authorities that if the 19-hour street lighting is turned on, 20-gauge, it's a peak-load period for the energy system, and electricity is the most expensive, not the free. Another important issue that sparked heated discussions was the topic of connections to electrical networks. For years, no one wanted to solve the problem in this sector, and we decided to solve it and to follow the concept of "under the key", a transparent integration for all consumers on a single, non-discriminatory basis. Three questions are important in connecting to electricity networks. The first question is procedure. The second question is the value. And the third question is who pays for joining. By procedure, we've given full order because we've approved a clear deadline for all kinds of connections, where necessary, they've been reduced to world leadership standards, and we've introduced responsibilities other than terms. If the oblenergo violates the terms of association, the customer will receive a discount of 10 percent by the cost of joining. If there's a slight delay, 20 percent. If there's a significant delay, if there's a substantial deadline, the return with the indexation of the entire amount of money. These changes were worked together with representatives of the European Commission, the Slovak regulator and were presented to me personally in the presence of the heads of the professional committees to which I particularly want to thank, Alexander Georgievovich Dombrowski, Mr. Ivanchuk and Mr. Halasyuk. The second important question is the cost of joining. Our ideologies that cost should be the only one regardless of whether it's a national MP or if it's a mere industrialist. We've heard criticism from all the industry's representatives, from all the customers, that we've improved the methodology that we've presented, where we've foreseen the distinctions for the consumer and the generation, where we've predicted a cost reduction for the consumer by removing a linear component that won't be paid, and also taking into account the characteristics of the generation, in order to restore energy sources, we've had a push for development in areas where there's a power deficit. These changes were presented again by the participation of the national deputies, in the presence of the European Commission, the Slovak regulator, who supported all these proposals. And we invite all interested parties to make their written proposals by May 4. There are no unusual bets today, we have heard criticism, everything we may be improving. When written proposals arrive, I hope we will also see the answer to the third question is important, which I said is political in nature, who pays for this value. There are two strategic directions here. The first direction is when we follow the principle of justice and the new factory pays for the cost of joining, it's fair, in our opinion. Or the second principle is to give preference when existing consumers pay for joining a new plant. If there is such a desire, we are willing to examine them with you. How these changes affect Ukraine's position in the Doing Business rating, because it is publicized and it shows in equal approaches where Ukraine is. After the deadline for accession, we are confident that of the last seats Ukraine has occupied, with the deadline of 280 days, these changes, which have already been approved, will allow Ukraine to take the lead, mother.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u111	Sir, how much more time do you need to finish? Come on, three minutes, and we'll get to the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u112	As for the cost of joining businesses. So today in Ukraine, I want to get to your knowledge that the cost of joining is one of the world's greatest. In Ukraine accession costs less than 90 percent of the world’s countries, it costs $55 per kilowatt against the world’s average of 230. The third important topic, the topical issues, is the order of the formation of the ORC. It was designed to implement the recommendations of the Antimonopoly Committee, because before there was no document that would regulate how to calculate the wholesale price. He allowed the cost of energy to be linked to the world’s resources and the forecasting of energy prices. In his development, he was accepted by all the authorities in the field: the Ministry of Energy, the State Regulatory Service, the Antimonopoly Committee, and the Ministry of Justice. I want to highlight a few important things in order to form an ORC for the people's deputies. First of all, this order is to set clear rules of pricing that were previously not in principle for 25 years. Second position, order is necessary at a transitional stage until national deputies support the Power Market Act. I'm asking you to support him tomorrow. The third position, this order allows and allows you to achieve energy dependency. We stopped coal mining from falling in Ukraine. This order allowed imports and diversification of coal supply and reduced the need for budget support. Also, since January 1, this arrangement has reduced the wholesale market price by 10 percent. Some thanks are given to the deputies who voted in December for Law 5129 on an alternative generation. And last but not least, the question that has been coming out in recent weeks, which has actually been the logical continuation of the overall reform of the natural gas market, is the division of the cost of gas as a commodity and the introduction of the power principle. The commission did so in accordance with the legislation, the Coalition Agreement and the Natural Gas Market Act, which was voted by 290 people's deputies. This law provides for the loss of power to install natural gas prices, the need to divide gas as goods and transport, and the introduction of a power principle. Let me draw your attention to this important slide. Because it shows the responsibility of the commission and the responsibility of the government in gas and heating tariffs. Today, only 13 percent of the natural gas commission is responsible. And it doesn't have the authority to approve natural gas prices. For two years, the government has been setting the price for natural gas. At the cost of heat, the commission regulates 27 percent. Only 11 relate to transport and distribution of natural gas. The Commission does not have jurisdiction over subsidies. The commission doesn't have authority and it doesn't have ownership of gas distribution or any other network. The method used since April 1 was developed for almost two years. It has agreed with all the professional bodies, takes into account the European experience, is contained in the Memorandum of Cooperation with the International Monetary Fund and provides very specific advantages for the consumer. Transparency of accounts. Because consumers deserve to know what they're paying for. How much is separate from the gas? And they need to understand that the consumer has the opportunity to change. And the individual cost of a natural monopoly, which is less than the cost of natural gas. We had a full discussion last year. 70,000 people, citizens have been questioned. And the vast majority supported this principle. In view of the fact that this issue has become a very emotional, political issue, I have to refute a number of allegations that have been false but have spread. First, consumers were still paying for transport costs. April 1st.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u113	Sir, you've been exhausted for five minutes. You're exhausted. I'm asking you, please, for the final sum. One minute. Because people want to ask you questions. One minute. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u114	I want to correct the false information that's spreading that it's an extra expense. This is not true, these costs go exclusively (please the next slide) to serve the gas distribution and gas transport economy of Ukraine, which belongs to the country where 75,000 Ukrainians work. It's not a new building, it's a maintenance and maintenance, it's not a separate extra fee, it's just a separate salary, and the cost of gas, as decided by the government, has been reduced. Taking into account the numerous appeals made by consumers, national MPs, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, we have listened and suspended our decision, we have cancelled it, if legally so to say, in order to carry out further consultations, to comply with all the requirements of the law, which have been voted on by the people's deputies, to provide additional protection for consumers so that no consumer gets a raise in the bill, but only gets positive changes from this reform: transparency of accounts, security and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u115	Thank you. The time for the report has been completed. Colleagues, I want to remind you, 20 minutes of the question to a reporter from the National Deputies, then it'll be separate from the factions after the performance. So each faction will be able to use its right in the section "expressions from factions." Now a question from the National MPs. Who wants to ask a question to Dmitri Volodymyrovich, please hold the record. Please record. 20 minutes for this procedure, 1 minute for the question. Dmitry Volodymyrovich is passing it on to Lashkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u116	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for Mr. Wolf. First of all, we've been looking for you for the second week, and you've been running around in the woods for a long time, in a corrupt forest. You've got to come faster. It's like robbing people, that's all. and you are robbing at night, and when you come to give an account, you are not there. So, first question. Why are the gas distribution networks that still belong to the State still under the administration of oligar Firtas and his company, represented here by Ljovczyn and Boyka? The second question. Why do you decide to get a subscription without consulting the government without consulting the public without asking the Ukrainians? And the third question. Mr. Wolfe, don't you think it's necessary for you to resign voluntarily after you've made corruption decisions that have brought about by the whole of Ukraine, which have excited Ukrainian citizens, people so hard to live, and when they've been given unrelenting news every day, I think you have to resign and retire.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u117	Thank you for your questions. First of all, property is not on the board. It wasn't the wolf who gave these gas distribution companies to anyone. On the contrary, we supported their ownership of the state, the rule of the state. That's why we've drawn up an appropriate bill, sent it to the government, as well as to the National Deputies, a copy of these letters in my possession to Prime Minister Groysman, to Mr. Dombrowski, to Mrs. Bilkovi, to Mrs. Vojcitsky. On the second issue of discussion with the government. The Commission’s method was to implement the Natural Gas Market Act, which voted 290 national deputies, agreed with all government organizations before the Regulatory Act was passed and registered with the Ministry of Justice, which fully confirms the legality of this methodology. I also want to report on my resignation. It has already been approved in accordance with the President's law and decree. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u118	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u119	They're out of office, two people are getting laid off extra in November, and I also know that I'm fired in accordance with the President's decree. This decision is already made.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u120	Thank you. Next, please, National Deputy Vladislav Danielin, People's Front. Maxim Burbak, please, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u121	Sir, thank you for coming today, and we have heard your excellent report. Thank you for mentioning that in 2015 the Yatsenuk government did everything to ensure that there were no stains and that the whole system worked and all had lighting and lighting. But now I want to ask you and say a big welcome from the 204th constituency of the heads of the bulwarks. And by the way, you said it was Arsenius Yatsenuk's decision to raise, and I want to remind you that you're the head of an independent body: he's not under government, not under anybody. And now what I'm saying is that when you take off this shameful raising of the tariff at no time for lighting in our streets in the villages, because of the increasing crime, we spent the state spending on setting the pillars, changing the icebergs, the state was already spending the money, and now you're telling us that light needs to be turned on at 7-8. But lower that rate 24 hours in the morning, you're the regulator. Do something, not stupidly follow someone’s instructions!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u122	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u123	Thank you for asking. I want to emphasize once again that we are consistently implementing the Coalition Agreement and Arsenija Petrovich, as the government's head of government in 2015, has decided to cancel any preferences from January 1, 2017 for urban lighting and electricity. Once again, I remind you that there is an opportunity for local self-government authorities to use zone accounting as well as prome. People, and paying less at night, that's the possibility today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u124	Thank you. The next one is national deputy Sergei Evtušek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u125	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Oksano Ivanovno, I am addressing you, I was sitting with this representative of the Wolf in the NCREKP, there's a full theater of absurdity. So please pass the word to Alexia Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u126	Please, National Deputy Rybchin. Please turn on the microphone for Rybkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u127	Alexy Rybczyn, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. Wolfe, during the years of your commission's existence under your headship, there have been substantial increases in tariffs that have caused the energy poverty of the population, and a "Rotterdam Plus" tariff has been produced, which has enriched one oligarch. You're up for it. They set up a gas subscription for the counters, and then they canceled it. You were trying to sell the Grigorishin transformers. You've tried to do a lot of things that just embarrass you as a regulator. You don't see the consumer, because you're an investment banker, you only see monopolies, just the oligarchs that you serve. And I have a question for you about the law that we passed, the commission should be non-essential. Don't you think you're an independent regulator if you worked for the President if you're appointed by the President's decree, if you're going to the President's faction, and if you're suspending your own decision at the President's request? Do you consider yourself an independent regulator?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u128	Thank you. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u129	Thank you for asking. I think that the commission is working independently, and I think that the MPs made the right decision when they voted this law and added the independence of the commission to the decision-making part, but have not yet made the financial security decision. If changes to the Budget Code are accepted, full independence will be ensured. About rotation and retirement? I have already reported, according to the President's law and decree, that the resignation of the entire active composition of the National Commission has been approved. And what I'm saying is, about two years ago, no one knew anything about the National Commission, now we're publishing all the decisions, everyone has access to them. I'm asking you not to instigate the population, including the subscription. I want to reassure all consumers that our decision does not lead to growth for any consumer, but only brings positive results. Because they will know what they are paying, who is responsible for the price of gas, who provides safe, reliable gas without any.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u130	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Sergei Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u131	Sobolje, Fatherland. Please tell me, what can you call an independent regulator if the Rotterdam Plus scheme allowed Ahmet to earn between 10 billion and 12 billion dollars, according to experts? This scheme allowed ORDLO to transport coal here illegally, which was served as coal that came from abroad. As you might call yourself an independent regulator, if you have set up a power connection for industrial enterprises six times as much as it was for you. By the way, you were scared and didn't publish that decision. Where is it? How can you call yourself independent if you actually set a population tariff by breaking it down into two tariffs, but this increases the cost of the key services that are being provided. You're working for Firthash and Ahmtov, so say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u132	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u133	Thank you for your questions. I want to make up for the three that you called. The first position: "Rotterdam Plus" has not been applied in the past year is not currently being applied, only a previous ARI index is being used, which is reduced to take into account the quality of coal in Ukraine. The second position that I want to correct, no six-time promotion by the commission, no bids for a non-standard connection have existed before. Today, as I have explained, there are three important questions: the procedure where we have made full order. The cost where we improve our methodology: we share the consumer – the generation takes into account the characteristics of each type of customer. And the third question is a political one that is often raised, who has to pay for it: a new factory that joins or existing consumers? I hope that by May 4, according to the procedure, written suggestions will be made on how best to solve this problem. And the third question I want to address. The decision to implement the principle of capacity and individual pay is 87 percent of gas and individual pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u134	Thank you. People's MP Kuprienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u135	Oleg Kuprienko, Radical Party of Laška. Mr. Wolf, the question is, do you realize that you are actually an enemy of the development of Ukrainian business? You've raised the fee for joining the power grids, to such an extent that the charge for connecting is greater than the electric motor to be attached. I'm not talking about building new housing, building businesses, developing factories and factories. What kind of business development can be in Ukraine, where to do something new, you have to pay so much that business is not worth it. Question: When will this shameful practice change? When Kluev and the companies in 2012 came up with a fee for joining in to send this money to build a LEP to their solar power plants and you continue this shameful practice by increasing the cost of joining, hindering the domestic business, and the money goes into the pockets of the oligarchs who bought the entire energy system of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u136	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I repeat that we have done the best we can after the accession process, and we have set clear terms for all types of attachments, standard, non-standard, depending on the volume. The second position at the cost should be the only just condition in the independence of whether a national MP or an industrialist joins. The interests of renewable energy sources should also be taken into account, and all of these things have been achieved. Speaking of today’s cost of joining, it is the cheapest in 90 countries in the world, one of the world’s most expensive. Once again, use the right information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u138	Thank you. National Deputy Alexei Kirichenko, please. Chizmar, please, National Deputy Chizmar. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u139	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party. I have two questions. First. Mr. Wolfe, the fact that you did not have a professional discussion led to ambiguous interpretation of article 40 of the Natural Gas Market Act. Because it says that the consumer pays for transportation services, and you've entered a subscription, which means I'm using or not using, I'm paying for the subscription, even though it's about the services that are actually given to me, that's the first. The second question. You've adopted this without agreeing with the Cabinet of Ministers, and the implementation of the Natural Gas Market Act has provided for the simultaneous implementation of several mechanisms to implement this law, including the free market, the supply of any importer or producer of gas to the consumer, including the resolution of subsidies. Because this fee comes out of subsidies. And so you balanced the implementation of the law, and in my opinion, you and Kabin had to take a step forward, that is, some document to implement this law in order to take all the points into account by introducing this one-sided subscription, an opaque subscription, even though we're talking about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u140	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u141	Mr. Chizmar, the service is provided, it is provided by the pressure of the natural gas of each consumer, it is the experience of the countries of Europe, almost all countries use fixed pay, it also depends on the power, the type, the size of the counter. That's why we believe that we have acted exclusively within the framework of legislation and our decision, and the consent of the Ministry of Justice confirms the government's involvement in this process. As for other issues such as monetaryization, price liberalisation, the issue needs to be addressed to the government, because it is his jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u142	Thank you. I invite you, two minutes later, to the words of the People’s Deputies of Daubenkov and Galchenko, the People’s Deputies of Papiev and Galchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u143	Hello, citizens of Ukraine, colleagues! There is indeed a very important issue here: the issue of public services, which concerns millions of citizens. It should be noted that we are now watching the theatre of absurdity. Why? Because in fact, each faction is trying to pin it on each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u144	Please turn off the microphone. I'm asking you to speak in national language and you can ask your question. Turn on the microphone. I just made a note.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u145	Mrs. Siroid.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u146	In national language, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Speak in national language and there will be no problems, this is the Ukrainian Parliament, and if you don't like it, you can speak in Russian in another parliament. What kind of problems?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u147	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u148	You have a microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u149	Mrs. Siroid, I'd like to personally offer you a copy of the Ukrainian Rule Act as chairman. You are currently holding a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, now you as an official are abusing your position. Why? Because you are violating Ukraine's law, the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I have repeatedly stressed that a speaker has the right to use his own language. You have to use the national language as your presiding officer. And now you're shutting down the opposition's mouth. And here's the question. It's not even here in the language, because it's not going to be easier for Ukrainian citizens, which language is going to be the issue now, and what decisions are going to be made. Because there's a population genocide going on right now, and that's not high-level phrases. And this genocide is being carried out with the participation of all the factions that formed the European Ukraine coalition. Eat your Ukraine European with European tariffs. And to say that Mr. Wolf is guilty of something, he's a performer. Everyone here knows that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u150	30 seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u151	This is the centralized policy of the President, the government, all the factions that signed the Coalition Agreement. And Mr. Wolfe pointed out that really in the Coalition Agreement there was a position regarding the introduction of a moratorium on the imposition of tax rates for all categories of the population. It was in the Coalition Agreement that provisions were put in place to prove the level of electricity tariffs, heat supplies, water supply, and nature.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u152	Thank you. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u153	In my opinion, there has been a very important reform over the past two years, from artificial politically motivated tariff decisions to targeted subsidies. This decision allowed a substantial reduction of the government budget deficit. I hope that, in spite of intense emotional political statements, all national MPs will still maintain their energy dependency and targeted assistance to those who really need help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u154	The word is Squirrel gives Igor Guzu. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u155	Igor Goose, Volin. Mr. Wolf, I have a question for you: How are you sleeping last week or so? You're getting some sleep. Are you all right? Are you getting up in the morning? I want to address you on behalf of my 150,000 voters, because I'm a major. I have 208 villages. People break their legs because you've come up with low tariffs for electricity from twenty-fourth to six in the morning! People spent 25 years of their gas pipelines for their money, and you're making them pay 100 bucks for the money! Do you have a conscience?Oh, my God! Do you think you're talking to people, Mr. Wolf?Oh, my God! I suggest you go back to Roshen! You'll be safe there, nice and good, and sweet. Don't be such a dick in your position! Think of the people! Shame on you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u156	Thank you for your question, Mr. Gus. Of course, when I get back to work, as I do every day at the right time, I'll see if you voted personally for the Natural Gas Market Act. And that's why I'm going to make the decisions that are made in this room consistently. With regard to electricity consumers. You've really pointed out that there's an opportunity to use zone accounting. The commission destroyed the monopolies for sale of these counters. This decision enables almost 400,000 citizens to save money. As far as gas is concerned. I would like to emphasize that 75,000 Ukrainians will provide reliable and safe gas supplies. So that there will be no city in either Ukraine or Kiev, in any district or in any district, no gas-sustainable accidents. It's not about buying something new. This is a large system that should be served exclusively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u157	Thank you. Only, Dmitri Volodymyrovich, can I remind you that Parliament and MPs are the controlling body that controls the activity, not the other way around. There is also sufficient respect for national MPs. A hat from the Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u158	Please pass the word to Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u159	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm not speaking to Mr. Vuk right now, I'm addressing Ukrainian citizens who are now listening to what's going on in the hall today. I want to tell you. Unfortunately, no one stands for you now. No tariffs, no subscribers in the head. It's not about you today. Today, there is an attempt like that of NAZK, as it is today from the commission, to kneel and depend on those who are performers. I'd like to tell you that once upon a time, there was a coalition agreement. So why is it that today, under the coalition agreement, no one says that today has become a hundred times better than before 2014, making life easier for people? It's not about you, it's not about people, it's important to you now. that most of the people present today fear the wolf, fear the NASK, fear the NABA. If that doesn't happen, they're all bad and unprofessional. And to Mr. Vuk, I tell you, obey the laws of Ukraine if you don't know what to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u160	Thank you. This was obviously not a question, but a speech. And the last word for the question, I give Teteruk Andrija Anatoliovich. And that will be the last question. Then there'll be factions from the factions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u161	I give the word to Yuri Berezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u162	Logwinsky, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u163	Dear Mr. Wolf, I have a question for you. Maybe you could ask me to step back a little bit, or I can't see. Yeah? And please tell me, do you have any understanding when and how our citizens will understand what the economy is going to be like as a result of your reforms, how people will feel when and how this is happening, whether you have a plan for this? And please tell me, when will we feel like Europeans, including your responsibility and assistance in the matter, including our state’s energy supply? What does it take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u164	Thank you for asking. In terms of the decision on the division of accounts, I would like to inform everyone that this decision was intended to provide almost a million Ukrainians with individual counters, with a decision to provide a distance account of almost five parts of the city of Mariupola, a large part of the city of Ternopol, so that each consumer would receive information on how much he consumes online, had his own office to be safe in gas supply. And that's only on this little issue that's caused so much discussion. In each sector, we have clear plans to tackle large-scale networks that no one can say how to ensure this with minimal burden on consumers. The most important task for the commission after the adoption of the Law on the Energy Market, already adopted by the Natural Gas Market Act, is to ensure that natural monopolies work effectively for the benefit of the consumer. In this we are not alone, once again, key donors such as the European Union, EBRD.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u165	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u166	an incentive tariff has been introduced, because it will only allow investment, improve quality and reduce tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u167	Thank you, Dmitri Volodyrovich. Question time is over. And now let's move on to the factions. And I'm asking the factions and groups to sign up. Dmitri Volodymyrovich, this is going to be a performance, not a question, you can take your place, and then you'll have your closing word. Please record from factions and groups. By "self-help" Wojcietsky. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u168	Your Honour, Mr. Head, my fellow officers! To be honest, today’s speech by the head of an independent regulator reminded me of this situation when they spit in my eyes and say it’s God’s dew. You're lying! Lying is a lie! Let's just start with the same decision that you made on the Grigorishin transformers, where we and the deputy corps, and the relevant experts came and tried to convince you that the 2 billion bracelets that were going to go into Mr. Grigorish's pocket were completely groundless. What we had to do to get independent experts to have zero in you, it turns out, of course. You haven't disrespected them as much as you have the MPs. And then when the deputy intervened. The diplomatic corps of our Western colleagues, this decision has been reviewed. Next. "Rotterdam Plus." This is a very interesting story. We were told that the introduction of the formula was necessary to ensure adequate energy independence from the supply of coal from the occupied zone. Then it turns out that this decision did not provide us with a diversification of supply because of the 25 million tons of coal that we consumed one year only 400,000 tons we took from other markets outside Ukraine. And we had to wait again for a letter from the Vice-President of the European Commission, who called your decision, quote, "Contraversive." Moreover, since April 1st, DTEK has also started exporting electricity to Moldova. I mean, there's no crisis with you. At the same time, however, an independent regulator makes decisions that are not for the benefit of the consumer but for the purpose of filling the pockets of the oligarchs. And last but not least, it's a very interesting moment about the introduction of a so-called subscription. You also tell us on all airs that the MP Corps has adopted such a revolutionary Law on the Market in Gas. Yes, we accepted it, and there we really established European principles. But we said that first it was necessary to return to the state property that was stolen by the same oligarchs as Firtash. What are you doing? You apply the principles only partially and provide them with income. So in conclusion, I would like to say that you don't have to consult with the public, Mr. Wolfe, but you have to write an application for release and not hide behind the 18 months of indulgence given to you by the President of Ukraine. Get out of here!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u169	From the Radical Party of Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u170	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, why is the wolf’s reaction so flimsy? Because we all understand that the so-called independent regulator of the NCRECR is not led by the Wolf, who is appointed the leader of this so-called independent regulator, and this is led by the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko. And the wolf is set up for the NCREKP with one goal: to pursue the policy of conspiring President Dusty with the oligarchs. Every Ukrainian in his own pocket pays for this policy. Colleagues have already cited examples of the corruption decisions of the NCRECR, billions and billions of them that are getting out of our pockets every day, out of the pockets of rural people, out of the pockets of urban people, out of people who are earning extra income to pay for the appetites of oligarchs, for the President's appetites, which, as with Yanukovich, were in chocolate and today are in chocolate. What does the Radical Party offer? We have been able to reverse the decision on subscription, but that is not enough to stop corruption in the NCRECR. The next decision and it should have been two years ago when Parliament voted on the gas market law, it was a return to the state administration of public gas distribution networks. At Yanukovich, these state networks were given free of charge by Firtash, Ljovczyn, and Boyko. Today Janukovich is long gone, but these state networks continue to be in their administration. Why? Because by their loyalty to their corruption, they pay for "Interom," they pay off, Boyko, Lewochkin, by voting in the Supreme Council. Notice, "Optoc", which calls itself the opposition faction, never said a word about a robbery subscription, not a word criticizing the activities of the NCREKP. This shows that the corrupt decisions taken in the interests of Firthash, Ljovckin, Boyka, these decisions, which are ordained by the President of Ukraine, are paid by the Ukrainians for these corrupt decisions. Our next requirement is the resignation of the NCRECR. Parliament voted in favour of the NCREKP Act, and our faction did not vote because this law extended the rule that allows the Rochenov Vocal to be kept in office for another 18 months. Every day this Roschchen wolf steals billions of sheep’s skin. Can you imagine how many months they're going to steal? That's why I think that the Russian wolf should come to the report, not the Russian wolf, but the Russian leader Peter Alexiyovich Poshenko would come here and report to the Ukrainians when they stop robbing the Ukrainians, and if the Russian wolf has already come here, I think he should come not alone, but with the NABA and GPU, so that we can make a public arrest here to tie him up here and take him to prison.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u171	From the Opposition Block, Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u172	Good afternoon, fellow citizens! Dear colleagues! But more than that, of course, this is a reference to the citizens of Ukraine, which is now taking place. It says here that who is politically responsible for these decisions is subject to public arrest. For some reason, everyone is silent about the fact that all factions, after signing the 2014 coalition agreement on the creation of the European Ukraine, have taken a tariff hike on housing services. Why we're not talking about what these directions have been characterized by the creation of economically sound tariffs, why we're not talking about one of the points in the coalition agreement being the introduction of a moratorium on the setting of tax rates for all categories of the population. This is where the Wolf is being talked about, the President, but you're all in the shit. Except for the faction of the Opposition Block, which does not support this policy. You don't need to talk about the political responsibility of someone in person, and it's your fault that these tariffs are now. Unfortunately, the representative of the National Commission is telling all this policy that it is tariff decentralization. I'm sorry, but we've already been through fiscal decentralization, and we've seen what the consequences of fiscal decentralization have deprived the territorial community and the income tax of the individuals 25 percent of them by transferring them to the state budget. Here's the decentralization. And as for tariff decentralization, in particular for Ukrainian citizens, I'm going to bring some facts, because they can't speak in the language that I can speak more freely, but the figures are stubborn. At the end of 2013, electricity tariffs are part of the decentralization of 30 klicks per kilowatt-hour. In 2017, 90 copies per kilowatt-hour is consumption up to 100 kilowatt-hours. Three times the promotion! Hot water: 15 bracelets per metre cubic, 77 bracelets per metre cubic in 2017. Five times the increase! Here's the European Ukraine. Inflammation, thermal energy services: 3 bracelets 10 copies per square metre is without counters, now, in 2017, 31 bracelets per square metre without counters. The price of natural gas: in 2013 725 bracelets without counters, 798 bracelets with counters, for all categories of consumers, now 6 000 879 dollars. Here's your tariff decentralization: you've raised all housing and utility tariffs from four to nine times, now you're saying, personally, that it's the responsibility of the individual president, or the NCRECR, and you're not saying that you put tariff decentralization policy in quotes, and that's against poverty.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u173	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u174	In the background, all of this, against the background of population poverty, has been raised from four to nine times by housing and utility tariffs, and now with such a decent mine, everyone is saying that "I'm not here in business, I'm here for nothing, it's none of my business." This applied to you after you signed the coalition agreement and put these basic points into development and tariff increases.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u175	From the Peter Dust Block of Honcharenko Alexei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u176	Alexei Hotcharenko, Peter Dusty Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine, the question is: Why did you choose Parliament? In order to listen to a wasteful time about "wolf," "hare," "zozulu" and another "political zoo"? Or perhaps in order to listen to a wasteful time about the villains of Ljocken and Boyk from those who received their many years of wages, he sat on their wages and led their people here to Parliament on his lists. Or maybe you've elected the Ukrainian Parliament to protect your interests and that's what the faction of the Petra Poroshenko and the government we formed. That's why the day after the decision was made by the NCRECR, which caused indignation, misunderstandings, a decision that no one had explained to anyone, Prime Minister Vladimir Groisman of Ukraine spoke up, said he said it was wrong. I asked the commission to reconsider its own decision. That's why the next day, the very great faction of the Ukrainian Parliament, the faction of the "Peter Prashenko" and the unanimity. and unanimously called on the NCRECR to review a decision that people do not understand and which could lead to an increase in people's payments. People can't take it anymore. We asked that question, we were supported by the President, and the commission did what it had to do: it canceled its own decision. And today I want to draw your attention, who's criticizing all this, and who's telling you all this political talk right now? Those who two years ago, the whole Parliament -- the Radical Party, "The Fatherland", "The Self-Help" -- voted in favour of the Natural Gas Market Act, which provides for the division of gas payments into two parts: subscription and payment directly for consumption. So what did the wolf do? The wolf carried out the Law of Ukraine. He did it wrong, not the way he was supposed to do it, so we responded and there was a result. But this, once again, is the law of Ukraine. More than that, why do we need him to make that decision? It gives Ukraine, significantly increases our chances in Stockholm arbitration, where Ukraine is fighting for $12 billion, where Gazprom filed a $50 billion lawsuit against Ukraine. And Gazprom's claim is based on a contract signed by Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. But now no one's talking about it because they don't want to talk about it. I'm taking the risk. The "Block of Peter Prashenko" did, did and would do one thing in advance: so that no Ukrainian citizen would suffer from the decision to split the payment for gas, by two, by three, by five, by five, no matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u177	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u178	No money can be paid for gas — not even a penny! If it's going down for someone, it's going to be great. We're going to support this, this was the right position of the NCREKP. But for no man, for any citizen of Ukraine, payments should not be increased, we will ensure that. And, dear friends, don't be afraid, not as scary a wolf as the jackal politicians in sheep's clothing who shed crocodile tears for the fate of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u179	Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich of the will of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u180	Good afternoon, fellow Ukrainians! I want to start by saying that our speech doesn't end with a simple one, so I'm asking you to count it as a parliamentary request and send it to the anti-corruption bodies -- that's the NABU and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, and that the facts that I'm going to give are investigated by the authorities. First. Note, and where did Mr. Wolfe work before the beginning of his activities in the government? And this is the company. From 2009 to 2013, this is ICU, where he was vice president. What did this company do? This company's been doing a bunch of shares in a certain energy alliance. Who was the founder of this company? And in this company was the founder of Mr. Danielsyn, who then also worked in a scheme in government institutions. Isn't that corruption that then these companies went up after, after Rotterdam plus, 40 percent? Is that not corruption, Your Honor? Now let's go back to the gas. Gas, is there a gas count and tariffs that are shipped to occupied areas? Are they the same? Next question. Is the entry into the territory after the occupied territories still on the way out of the European part, or is the gas being accounted for, and is the difference between Ukrainian gas and gas being supplied from Russia accounted for? We're not going to wipe the people's eyes out, because that's the Russian gas we're paying for. How much is Ukrainian gas paid, and at what price? And if you don't have this left-hand gas that isn't counted as Russian, and Ukrainian citizens in their pockets only pay Ukrainian gas on Russian tariffs and pay for it to be paid by an occupation that's hidden as if we're delivering it from Europe. I've finished my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u181	The People's Front is Burbak Maxim. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, I have the impression that as the former Minister of Infrastructure, Mr. Wolfe, the archer has come out fine. So you're to blame for the MPs, and you're to blame for Prime Minister Yatsenuk, who was responsible for making important decisions, when the country was on the verge of default, and when it was possible to shut down, because there was no coal and we were buying it in the South African Republic, it was a responsible decision. And once we've lived and seen that the economy is starting to recover, we can do some weakening, and that's already your responsibility, Mr. Wolf, you've made a decision as an independent body. And what I'd like to say is that it's not a gas bill, it's not a plug-in fee, it's a tax on the benefit of Firtash, Ljovczyn. I want to remind you here, by the way, of the pro-Russian faction speaking about the Coalition Agreement. Don't move the arrow, either. In 2011, the city of Chernivci, the pro-forertashian sales force, gave a gift to Furtash as owner of Chernivzioblgas, a second string of gas stations worth more than 23 million dollars and more. And now you want us to pay for the wiring when we build this low-end gas station for the money of the entire community. So I can advise you on what you should have done. To develop a mechanism to restore these gas distribution networks to public or utility property, to account for them, to determine the cost, and to develop a typical contract for the community to conclude with fraud, and they paid for renting this infrastructure. You'd be doing the right thing. Then we'd have a public discussion, explain to the village heads how this should be done. And then they would probably support that. And now I want to invite you to my 204th district in the village of Balamutovka, which made a gas distribution network around the village ten years ago, without even being able to access the medium-pressure gas. That's what we need to talk about and look into people's eyes! Next, here, when you talk about the night fare signed by Yatsenuk, he signed a lot of the right documents. But now you, as an independent regulator, should have made a decision. When the peak load is at 9, at 8 a.m., as you said, you can definitely enter a tariff. And from 24 to 6 a.m., when our nuclear power plants are producing electricity, we don't know where his kids are, then we have to make zero at all so that the villages can be lit up and the crime doesn't grow. That's why I can say this: we did the right thing to return the role of Parliament as a function of parliamentary control. And every Wednesday we have to listen to these leaders. NAZC has shown that it is ineffective, and the government has introduced a bill to change the NAZC so that their work can be arranged. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u183	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u184	The People's Front faction, as the most responsible government force, is proposing a solution to this problem as well. This is the People's Front initiative, the Bill (No. 6073) on the complete replacement of all members of the NCREKP. And then it's going to be an independent competent authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u185	Thank you. And the closing statement, Sobolev, was by Sergei Vladislavovich of "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, where did this all begin? How was the wolf appointed? We're opening the Constitution. Whether the President has the authority to appoint independent regulators. None. Why does this body exist in general? As you do, Mr. Wolfe, here you are constantly referring to the laws, show me in the Constitution the President's right to appoint you. You're an illegal, unconstitutional body. Now let's see what this organ did during this time. The first decision of this body is a decision that allowed Ahmet to import stolen coal for which our citizens ’ blood was paid to the fighters from the territory of so - called ORDLO into Ukraine. And this actually allowed every ounce of coal from one and a half to two thousand dollars to steal! Stealing from citizens, stealing from businesses, stealing from the state of Ukraine. You dedicated it and you did it! Who made this decision? Ministry of Justice. When Groisman is crying now, that he doesn't know anything, let him open the Department of Justice. The second decision is yours. Didn't you know that you've raised the connection to so-called unusual networks six times? Open this decision, January of the month. You're afraid to print it. And it has not entered into legal force until that time. Who called on him? Minust. The third decision that goes around this whole situation. This is a decision that applies to subscription. Who called? Minust. The Groisman didn't know about him?Oh, my God! The right hand doesn't know what the left hand does?Oh, my God! So, Mr. Wolf, you have one situation. Come here with not the report you came with. And tell me, how much did Ahmatów, Firthash, other owners of the skyscraper, get out of this? Describe how now every Ukrainian citizen is forced to lobby for the interests of the country’s oligarchs, pay an additional tariff in each cubic meter of gas or in every kilowatt of electricity? And that's not even the point. What is the main thing about who is covering all of this? What happened after the Orange Revolution, when the first person to enter Yushchenka's office was Firtash, and he was yelling, "I don't know who this is." These hands didn't steal anything. Bov Ahemtov. They're back in the powder room, they're running the state again. That's why the Cloud is silent and voting with you. Surrender! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u187	Colleagues, attention, attention. Now I'm going to give it a minute for everyone who's been named, and then I'm going to give it a closing statement. In sequence, let's start with "The Cloud," the last one they called it. Please, Igor Shurma, one minute. Then Vojcitsky, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] Who? Please, Shuma, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u188	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. You know, when I was little and we were all little, I asked my grandmother why there were bad people in the world? And she told me, you know, all those who ate from the knife, had breakfast, were evil. Now, I'm listening to my fellow Members of Parliament today, so much so that you've all been fed with an ax, you've been cutting your computer with estimates. What are you doing?? On the eve of Easter, when you all go to church and pray, you leave Ukraine before the eyes of the international community, in front of your citizens, you don't know what level. You're shocked, I recommend you all before you throw stones at each other today, think that your parents listen to you, the kids listen to you. Who are you turning into a beast? Thus that animal today needs no legislative protection, as it did, and this animal needs to be chased away.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u189	For 15 minutes, I'll continue my session. Which one of you? Grandma Helen, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u190	In this room today there have been accusations of a variety of personalities at the address of, among other things, our faction of voting for the natural gas market. At the same time, dear friends, we have witnessed two very shameful phenomena today. First. We passed a law with you not only on the gas market, but also on the national regulator. At the same time, there has been a testimony today from a large faction, which is the largest, it has been said, that an independent regulator is dependent, that his decisions may be subject to political pressure, not judicial action, as stated in the law. This is the first disgraceful phenomenon. And the second. That's because this regulator doesn't fully understand its functions as an economic regulator. He calls populism what the economy calls platability and economic accessibility. They will guide us to market prices in Europe while 50 percent of the population in Ukraine on subsidies are people who are beyond poverty by definition. By all international standards. The market prices of neighbouring countries alone cannot be oriented when 50 percent of the population is absolute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u191	And last minute. Well, colleagues, I do. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich, calm down. Now, colleagues, I will determine the sequence of all those mentioned. I'm reminding you that the committees are starting pretty fast today. And I'm asking you as concisely as possible. It's Burbak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u192	Mr. Wolf, by the way, you lied. You're not just a shooter, you're a big liar. Tell me, have you been appointed President Prašenko's decree or the government of Yatsenuk? Who signed the appointment order? One. Secondly, why are you transferring your responsibility to anyone, to the MPs, to the prime ministers, instead of being the leader of an independent regulator? You know how grateful you are for the villages and the cities. Well, I guess I'm already talking to my fellow MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, next plenary week, let's consider Bill 6073 and completely replace all the members of this committee in order to make them responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u193	Baby Oleg, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u194	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party's faction voted in favour of the Gas Market Act because the key requirement of this law is to return to the state administration of state, municipal, gas distribution networks, which, free of charge over the years, after receiving them at Yanukovich, are used by Firtash oligarchs and his representatives in Ukraine, Ljowczyn and Boyko, at the expense of Ukrainians, exploiting Ukrainian gas distribution networks, they put billions in their pockets, share these billions with power and continue to rob Ukrainians. That's why we're demanding the government and last week we were at a government meeting, we're going to take a decision to implement the Gas Market Act, and we're going to return state-owned gas distribution networks. Enough oligarchs in conspiracies with the power to rob Ukrainians, too expensive a pleasure. And the wolf is in the cage!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u195	The last performance is Sergey Sobolev. And then the closing word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u196	Dear colleagues! I think we have just made a very rational proposal: we have two Bills 6073 and 6073-1, unfortunately, the first law legitimizes the illegal appointment of the governor by the President, the second bill passed by a number of factions (thirty-one) defines the order of appointment through an independent commission and further approval through Parliament – these are our constitutional powers. My proposal to include these two bills, they passed a committee, a committee, unfortunately not defined, but this allows us to start and start, in fact, creating independent regulators who should be appointed by Parliament and who should be accountable to the citizens who are elected by Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u197	To conclude, the head of the National Commission, Vuk Dmitry Volodymyrovich, is invited, please, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u198	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Thanks again for the opportunity to speak because there are many lies and, I hope, I have covered many topical issues in my speech. I devoted two thirds of my speech to consumers and transparency in the work of the commission. This is a real priority in the workplace, and it is also a real priority to provide consumers with reliable and quality services. We are now a quarter of a century old, using the legacy we have left. If we are careless, careless, and forgetful of what it requires, both maintenance and renewal, we have great risks for the future. Our task, such as commissions and all government organizations, is perhaps to find mechanisms for the Parliament to provide quality and reliable services, with minimal burden on the consumer, taking into account his ability to pay. So once again, I call for professional work, and I invite all the national MPs to join in the decision-making process, to make their proposals. Only in this way will we be able to achieve the goals that have been set for the coalition in the coalition agreement, so that Ukraine will be successful so that people will receive quality services at fair prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-12-m0.u199	Thank you. Thank you, Dmitri Volodyrovich, for the report. The question has been considered, and the information has been made known. And, colleagues, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I call for fruitful committee work today. And tomorrow at 10 o'clock we'll continue our work in the hall, and I'll invite everyone into the hall at 10 o'clock tomorrow morning to continue our work. Thank you.
