ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u1	Good morning! Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. Some unwholesome crowd of deputies on the right. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Dear colleagues! Can we register? So, colleagues, please hold the registration. [[10:06:20]] 336 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! The Supreme Chamber of Parliament of Canada ratified the Free Trade Agreement with Ukraine. On March 14, only the Supreme Council of Ukraine recently approved the law. I welcome all of us with this overwhelming decision. This is an important decision for Ukraine. And what I'm trying to say is that getting a visa-free regime from the EU, the Free Trade Agreement with Canada shows -- Ukraine, regardless of aggression and war, is going its way, through free democratic countries. I want to thank the diplomats and the government that is here, for their work together, for the path of reform. And today we have an hour of questions to the government. And I would like to welcome Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman of Ukraine and the government of Ukraine. Welcome to our government. [[Applause]] You could have applauded longer, colleagues. Please. Let's once again welcome a more friendly government, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u2	Thank you. I just said, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, good afternoon, fellow dignitaries, that only the government should applaud the Supreme Council of Ukraine for much and long.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u3	Please, please. [[Applause]] It was strong. So, colleagues, today we have the following format, radically changed: there will be a report by Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman of Ukraine, and then there will be questions. And the report will be, we talked to Vladimir Borisovich, maybe 30 minutes, maybe less. If the report is shorter, there will be more time for questions than the national deputies. I remind you, the questions will be from the deputies, so we need to be there and record. Volodymyr Borisovich, may we die? And I invite you to speak to Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u4	The Honourable Lord of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Honourable Presidium, the Honourable Dear Fellows of the National Deputies! I'll have your attention for a few minutes with great respect and respect. You know, I remember you and I entering the budget process in 2017, doing the necessary consultations, working to form a budget that could become a budget with clear priorities. But one of the main tasks we put ahead of this budget was to raise the minimum wage. We fought for this decision, and in this room we heard different thoughts about whether we should do it or not, whether we counted it in detail or not. But in fact, we found most of the votes in this room to support both the state budget and the decision to raise wages in the country. And this wage for the first time in the history of our nation has doubled in one year. Of course, this is not enough. But the steps we've started have given today the opportunity of 4 million and a half million people to get a higher salary. This is the decision that allowed us to detune the salary and eventually return, to begin a return of respect for the working man, the working man in Ukraine. We are now facing a new stage and there will be new debates, whether we should do it or not, perfect for this reform or not. But I can definitely say that the time for a pension reform that will serve the interests of Ukrainian pensioners who are already retired and future pensioners, that time has come. We must now work and make all the necessary decisions to restore justice. What kind of pension system do we have in our country today? I'd like to print the first slide with numbers. We have 12 million Ukrainian pensioners, 8 of whom live on a minimum pension. The average pension in our country is 1 thousand 828 dollars. This is not enough to at least ensure the minimum standard of living of Ukrainian citizens. Moreover, this amount covers only 50 percent of the pensioner’s living minimum. Moreover, this system is unjust because it does not take into account the retirement and pension benefits that a person conscientiously makes during his work life. It turns out that if you worked and paid your taxes conscientiously, and paid your contributions conscientiously to the Pension Fund, you're still getting a minimum pension. But if you haven't worked, you get exactly the same pension as a person who's worked your whole life. This is a huge injustice. And the third position that I want to tell you why this system is unfair, why it is imperfect. And because we have a pension deficit this year is 141 billion dollars. This is more than education, health care together, it is more than one country’s defence budget. This suggests that in that system the unjust, imperfect deficit of the Pension Fund will only increase. If nothing is done, next year this deficit will be 175 billion; if nothing is done, more than 200 in a year. Thus, in three, four, five years, the Pension Fund will have no money to pay even such pitiful pensions. This says only one thing: we have to take responsibility and change this system. We've been working on this for months. And actually, I wasn't talking about it, but the first step we took was when we started restoring and doubling the minimum wage in the country. This has enabled and detincted it, opened the way for the most extensive, I think, reform that will suit the interests of working people, the interests of pensioners. Next, please, slide. Look at the injustice, the people were recalculated in 2012 for the average wage of 197 dollars. 8 million 229 thousand Ukrainian pensioners, who were accounted for in 2007, 10 years ago, how many things have changed and the pension hasn't changed. The average salary in the country and the minimum wage in the country (the next slide, please) changed nine times, and nine times the pension was to be recalculated. What are we getting out of? We come out of the fact that we have to restore justice to the pension system and have pensions modernised. And so we're talking about this, and we're putting it in a draft law that we're putting a not 1 000 197 dollars, but 3 000 764 dollars 40 copies, that's what today's average wage is. Next. Modernization will provide an opportunity for between 200 and a thousand, even more than a thousand bracelets, each month’s payments. This was not the policy that was still recent when a pensioner was given a thousand dollars — a gift, a alimony, and then forgotten. This is about the regularity of the pension allowance that we see in this infographic. And so, 5 million 620,000 retirees get a monthly pension allowance. That's what corresponds to the possibilities of today's new system and what's going to work to reduce the pension deficit. I also want the minimum pension in the country to be three thousand or five thousand dollars, but then the pension deficit itself will increase. If it's 140 billion today, multiply it by three, and you'll see it's going to be over 400 billion deficits. And that's 40-50 percent of our budget in general -- that's impossible today, the economy can't let us do that. And so we're going through the process of modernizing pensions for Ukrainian pensioners. Next position. We have to consider with you the return of justice, of insurance. But we have to introduce differentiation if a person worked for 25 years (the next slide), he has enough money today to make contributions to the Pension Fund during his productive life and then get a normal pension. I've heard that they say that 25 years of work experience is very bad. Friends, 25 years of work experience -- it's a work pension, it needs to be earned. And millions of Ukrainians, I say, millions, have spent their entire lives in retirement, but unfortunately, none of the political elites at the time that they formed this system lacked the political will to make a fair system. If we look at this slide, we'll see that the new reform is an opportunity: this is the C1 is the area that we pay to the Pension Fund in our production life. And then when we retire, a person, if he reaches retirement age, on average he lives 18 years, then all of these 18 years we start getting a pension that matches our income. And of course, if a person doesn't have a pension, he has to get a completely different salary -- it's the social assistance of the state. You don't have to take a pensioner who's worked his whole life and give him to someone who just didn't work for different reasons. When it comes to health, there is an adequate disability pension. But if a person did not want to work, did not want to work, or did some undercover work, of course he cannot be in the same new, equal conditions as all other Ukrainian citizens. We act in the interests of man’s work. Next. We see that the change in the system allows us to actually put together today, that is, to balance 35-year contributions to the Pension Fund is going to be equal to everything that a person pays. All because a person will receive new updated pensions every month. I would like to point out that we have also avoided this reform of increasing the retirement age. For a working person, the retirement age will be 60 years. There will be no change in this matter. We definitely didn't support it, and we did everything we could to maintain the position of maintaining an existing retirement age. I'm 39 years old today, I'm almost 23 years old in order to reach the age of 25, or even 35, I'm 51 years old, and I'm going to have to work nine years before I retire. Every person who works has enough time to get a proper pension. Moreover, this position, this reform, allows us to build a deficit-free budget for the Pension Fund. For 7-10 years - 7-10! – we're going to go into the zero deficit of the Pension Fund. This means that this system will be exactly deficient and will stimulate the development of our nation at all. Besides, it's important. We're in this bill and we're finally going to restore justice, and now we have that possibility. We'll cancel the so-called pension tax for working pensioners. From the adoption of this law from the first day of its operation, all pensioners working today will receive a hundred percent pension without any further reductions in this pension or payment. Next. This new system allows us to get closer to raising the social standards that were planned by the December 1, 2017, budgeted to close to October 1, 2017. This means only the only, honourable colleagues that we have actually found the necessary solutions in the context of our current state of the national economy, which, by the way, and in the first quarter has shown growth, we have a historic chance today to change the pension system in a country that will understand which will respect the man of work, and the main thing that we're still putting into this system is that there will be no more people going to be 5, 7, 10 years waiting for the renewal of pensions. We put on this basis, in this system, the automatic improvement of pensions every year: not less than 50 percent of average wage growth, not less than 50 percent of inflation. That means there can be more, but less than 50 is never. This is the social justice that millions of Ukrainians are awaiting today. In fact, since October 1st, after you've approved this reform -- and I hope that we will share it before this session is over -- we will be able to prepare with you -- and on October 1st, 9 million Ukrainian pensioners: 5 million 620 thousand that you've seen on slides, and another 4 million that will bring you closer, raise minimum social standards, will already get a higher pension. And one more thing that's very important. This reform opens the way to two other important decisions that I know are being worked out in Parliament, and I think we can work together to find the right solution, is a build-up system. And most importantly, by the end of the year, I guarantee from this rostrum, I make a commitment that we will introduce a new law on the modernisation and increase of pensions for military pensioners. There are about 2 million people, and these people will receive a pension increase from January 1, 2018. I take sufficient responsibility, my dear friends, to this reform, to what I speak from this rostrum. And this all coincides with what our government can do, of course, with your support, with the support of the President of the country. We have to make a joint product that will serve the interests of Ukrainian citizens. I think it's time to change the country because of the decisions that Ukrainian citizens make. The annual modernisation of pensions will raise the social standards of our pensioners. As soon as we get to steady economic growth, we can increase the minimum wage, and the average wage, we can increase pensions for Ukrainian pensioners. Dear friends, there is no doubt that Ukrainian pensioners and we, as the government that is taking this initiative, need your support. I ask: Take the flags aside, let's take the only Ukrainian flag into our hands, let's do this reform in the name of the Ukrainians. And I am convinced that when you come to your districts or on your trips you will meet people who will always say, "Thank you." I'm willing to take personal responsibility for this. Thank you for your attention and for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the performance was shorter, and for 40 minutes it is asked. I hope this will help us to ask more questions. I remind you, this question is not from factions but from MPs alone, and I ask everyone to prepare for the recording. And I ask you to record the questions of the National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. 40 minutes. Please. Katzer-Buchovska Natalija Volodymyrna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u6	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister! I have a question for you. I wonder how and if there have been any action on this matter. on the continuation of the transit contract after 2019. The transit contract for gas transit through Ukraine is known to end in 2019 and, accordingly, Ukraine may lose more than 2 billion dollars if it does not continue. That's what I'm talking about. In addition, we will lose a very important geopolitical weight in the negotiation process, as well as the question of using our gas transport system in general. And the question is, how does the government respond to the external political challenges of building the Nord Stream gas station around Ukraine? What actions are being carried out? What are your plans in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u7	Thank you for your question, which is extremely important and strategic for our nation. I want to emphasize that the issue of the gas transport system is one of our important priorities. You know, we recently signed a memorandum with our European partners on the purpose of joint management. There's a trial going on in Stockholm, and I don't want to comment before the decision is made. And this will affect, including our future plans for the management, development and so forth of the gas transport system. But we will definitely fight for our national interests. Moreover, it is not just our national interests and our national security. This is the security of Europe in general today with regard to the diversification of gas supply to European countries. That's why we're working on it today. Moreover, we are taking all possible measures to prevent the construction of projects that are essentially political, I would say, character on the one hand, and on the other hand pose a threat to the national security of Ukraine and the countries of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u8	Thank you. Kostenko Pavel Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u9	Please pass the word to Roman Semensi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, certainly pension reform is one of the most important things for our country, because it applies not only to pensioners but to all generations without exception. We clearly share the principle of fairness in the number of pensions depending on the length of the internship. However, the actual increase in your insurance system is nothing more than a hidden way of raising your retirement age. And I wanted us to be honest and honest about this. So I have a few specific questions. Name the coefficient according to which the pension will be calculated in 18, 19 and 20 years. Second, name the date, not the concept, but the bill, which will be submitted to the Supreme Council. I just want to say that the self-help faction requires deep math classes, 5 and 20 years of calculation, along with a forecast of the demographic situation. Third. We want to ask you publicly when and how the public audit of the Pension Fund will finally take place and will be created.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u11	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u12	created a single national register of recipients of all social benefits and, above all, pensioners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u13	Thank you, my fellow national MP. I would ask you, when you ask a question, to be more correct in principle. I'm going to mathematically tell you that insurance is something other than retirement age. If you have 25 years of retirement and this law provides for you to retire at 60 years of age, how long will you get out at 60? At 60. What if the retirement age is increased, for example, to 63? This will mean that you have a 25-year retirement period, and you have three more years to work. So this is in no way consistent with what you said today, you asked questions. I emphasize that this system is just. It's not a system for material aid, and it's a system that works for a person who works his whole life, makes contributions, when he reaches 60 years of age, he's entitled to those contributions. But what I'm stressing is that a person who is 25 years of age or older is going to get a higher pension than a person who is 10 years old and 15 years old. Hence, it is about restoring justice. You collect premiums for your professional life, you pay them, then you get them. It's fundamentally important, I'm asking you not to confuse it. Now listen very carefully! The pension billing factor in those years that you said is 1.35. And you have to take that for yourself. What's more, we've done all the economic calculations, you've said correctly that this is, on the one hand, a political decision for me, and for us, a decision, but in fact it's mathematics, it's saying that we've done all the necessary calculations that prove this system's ability to implement. That's what I told you about 3,000 200 dollars, the same thing. And I also heard from this room that no, it's going to be bad, it's going to be too much inflation and so on. Nothing like that. We need to pay our respects to the people who work. We need to create a system in the name of those who have earned their pension. And one more thing. You just count it today. The following year, pensioners who are born in 58 will retire. You can count how many of these people I'm interning today. This will be more than 35 years old. Talk to the people. And they want justice today. And we will restore that justice to you. Thank you for asking. And we made a proposal as a government. We will look ahead to this decision on the reform agenda. And then we're going to bring it into the Ukrainian Parliament. We're ready for the discussion and the meetings before the introduction, after the introduction, during the discussion. We believe in what we do. And we will win along with you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u14	Thank you. Timoshenko Yuri Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u15	Please pass the word to Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u16	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Despite the fierce opposition in this session room about the special confiscation regime of Yanukovitch's money, a special confiscation regime was finally approved and one and a half billion dollars were included in the state budget. This is the People's Front Command, the National Security and Defence Council, and the Attorney General's Office. Please tell me, do you foresee that these revenues can be allocated to the State budget to continue the decentralization reform of the united territorial communities to fund the CLTC for local elections? One. And secondly, after the introduction of the visa, do you predict that an additional 200 million will be allocated to the State Migration Service to handle additional biometric passports? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u17	Thank you. Thank you for asking. In fact, the first tranche has already come into the state Treasury account. But as we know, all of these funds will be distributed according to the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at the suggestion of the Government. We want to consult with the coalition to determine which direction. With the coalition, with the President of the country, we can determine in which direction these costs can be proposed before use. In my opinion, it's a defence issue, it's an infrastructure issue. Infrastructure can be educational, medical. This could be the construction, expansion, or construction of roads or other infrastructure objects. It's going to have two elements. On the one hand, increasing the resilience or improving the conditions of our infrastructure, the quality of our infrastructure. And on the other hand, it will contribute to the development of the national economy of economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u18	Thank you. Now, two deputies pass on the word, this is Linko the next one, and Kocheljeva passes on the word to Oleg Laszko, so two minutes is given to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u19	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Prime Minister, we have listened with consideration to your presentation on pension reform. But what we're saying is that what you're proposing to society right now, we don't agree with it in form or in fact. First. In shape. Why are you discussing a pension reform project with the International Monetary Fund instead of primarily discussing it with Ukrainian society? The pension reform you are proposing is affecting the interests of millions of Ukrainians. The pension reform you're proposing should not be done for the International Monetary Fund, not to get a new IMF loan, but primarily for Ukrainians who have the right to know when they will retire, who will receive their pension and what conditions for retirement. The other one. Today, as you rightly said, 12 million people in Ukraine are retired. As a result of your pension reform, there will be 5 million pensioners left. Because in fact, your pension reform has one goal: to bring Ukrainian pensioners out as a class. Because as a result of your pension reform, most people just won't get a pension. You're telling me there's no rising retirement age. That's not true. Because according to your project, if you're under 15 years of age, you have the right to retire when you're 65. Next, today's minimum pension for 15 years. You're offering to raise your insurance for 20 years. You're saying that you're lucky to have 20 years of work. Unfortunately, not all Ukrainians were lucky, as you have, that millions of Ukrainians worked in markets, train stations, construction projects, jobs, and today they do not have this pension. And that's why we're asking you to consult the people before you're proposing this reform, rather than doing the culinary thing. And the last. You have every opportunity today to raise your pension and not drag it away until October of the month. Enough fooling people, let's speak honestly to people as they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u21	Please, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u22	Thank you, Reverend Oleg Valeriovich. I want to tell you that what we're doing today and what I'm entering is all that is true. And this reform is not done for the IMF, it's done for Ukrainian pensioners. And in fact, it's not made to be 5 million, it's made to be 12 million active pensioners. It's my responsibility, my friends. Since November 1, you're going to ask me, but you're going to say from this rostrum that, yes, you were right, because 12 million pensioners, first 9 million get recalculations, then 2 million military retirees get a 1 January pension. This will mean that 12 million Ukrainian pensioners receive higher pensions. And I'm responsible for that. I'm talking about it from this rostrum, looking into the eyes. What's with the IMF? You know, we're doing this reform, not for the IMF, but for Ukrainian citizens who are now living on the poverty line. And I just want to end it. I want people to live better, and I will do everything for it. Next. What you said was less than 15 years old. Friends, come on, once again, we're going to talk to you about pension reform as a pension system, like a system of work pension or material assistance, can you explain it to me? If we're saying it's a system of work retirement, we have to get out of work. And if we're talking about people who work, I want to assure you that any normal working person today has 25 years of quiet work. 1958, that person who retires, count 2 years of the army, he's going to have 40 years of internship today, maybe more. These people are the absolute majority in our country. What do they want? They want justice because they've been fooled, they've been working their whole lives, they've been working 25, 30, 35 years, they've been paying contributions for 40 years, and they're also getting one who hasn't worked a day, it's wrong. So we're talking about this system being fair. What's more, if we want to take care of people who have Ukrainians who don't work and are under 15 years of age -- under 15 years of age -- they still don't get a pension, you have to know about it. But we have to create a system of completely different, social assistance for these people, take care of them, give them a chance to support them, but not at the expense of a working person, that's what I want to say. You can't if I, you don't care, a factory worker works this morning, he feeds, he gets a salary, he keeps 22 percent, he pays the pension fund, then he retires at 60, you notice, he retires at 60, and you're told, you know, you should get a pension of 3,000, you won't get three, you'll get one and a half. Because we'll pay for you from our retirement to someone who hasn't worked a day. Where is this justice? So in this system that we're talking about, it's not an IMF system, it's a Ukrainian system and it's for Ukrainians. I think it's one of the most correct systemic, I would say, extremely fair decisions that Ukraine has never seen before. I talked about it three hundred from this rostrum, I convinced it would be right, I was talking about decentralization, and today the local budgets have tripled, although some told me that this year they're not going to grow. I assure you, after this reform, the pensions of Ukrainians will increase and will grow further, that's what millions are waiting for. And God forbid, God forbid there should be fewer pensioners. We need to do everything we can to ensure that 12 million active pensioners get a normal quality of life, so we need three or five years, but if we start today. I would like to stress that since October 1, Ukrainian pensioners will receive 9 million higher pensions, and this will be the first step, just to move on. We'll continue to deal with wages, we'll continue to raise salaries for the education community, not translate them into zero pensions, that's the main task for us. And I said, next step, it's about 2 million military pensioners, and we're going to do that. So please, Oleg Valeriyovich, I ask you, you proved, you added your votes when there were 227 for the minimum wage. I'm always talking about this -- it's also a wise decision, and I ask you to support it, and you'll have success in this issue too. Because you're going to come to people and you're going to hear that their pension has increased and their prices have remained stable and become fair, and it's very important, and I'm convinced that we all have to do it together. And those who do not support the change of this system simply may not care for the pain and suffering of pensioners. And for us, it's very important, we want to change the system. Please unite in this and support us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u23	Thank you. Kugel Alexander and, colleagues, so that we don't have speculation, we see how many people can perform. The factions can transmit and unite voices in the circle in which they see them, and I can see that they are coming. So don’t do things where you don’t just need unnecessary problems. Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u24	Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister! Vladimir Borisovich, the only problem after your report is that we looked at the pictures, but our faction is professionally engaged. I'm talking to you! He's a professional pension reformer, and I offered to help you a month ago, but we were never invited. I fully support Mr. Semenich's Self-Help in matters that, believe me, we understand and know what lies under the thimbles. We understand what 1.35 is. We understand what insurance and work experience are. We have suggestions, if you really want to accept a good pension reform, which not only will you not be ashamed of, but we, too, are ready from Monday, you want to sit down and work with the papers tomorrow. Otherwise, if I'm knee-deep, I'm not sure, though.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u25	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u26	. Although pension reform needs to be done. We have our own proposals, let's find out, there are no party symbols here, we have our own professional calculations along with Self-Help, we're ready to sit with you, but not in the Supreme Council Hall, but sit at the desk, and we're ready to make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u27	Thank you for your questions. I want to emphasize that as a government, we are completely open to dialogue, to discussion. We've demonstrated this not once. Unfortunately, we can come with you. A lot of you have worked in different areas, but when it comes to voting support, you don't vote. It's not even about that, I'm willing to discuss it, and keep talking about it. It's not about knee reform. I want you to just realize that this is reform not because of your knee, it's reform through your mind, it's through your heart, because people haven't been able to suffer for decades. Unfortunately, there are people who suffer from pension. I can't remember when people had a normal pension. My grandmother was getting pensions in the '90s, I think, 40 dollars of something is bullying, because everyone was getting billions of dollars. I think it's not because of the knee right now, it's because of the heart and the pain, and the suffering of the Ukrainian pensioners and what we've balanced the system is obviously a fact. Please, all that will be better, we will support. But don't forget that there's a deficit, don't forget that the system has to be fair, don't forget that we have to ensure respect for the people of work, and these are the main priorities that we put. And most importantly, there are things that are restoring justice today, too, I said that. Restoration. Cancelling the taxation of pensions, i.e. lowering pensions for working pensioners and many other things. On the one hand, they say, we haven't read, let's read, and you say you've read, and there's something wrong and you have to change. Thank you very much. We'll bring it into Parliament, we'll discuss it with you, and we'll count on it. And by the way, we can talk about this on the Reform Council, come and we'll come to a general decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u28	Thank you. The Jury of Oksana gives the word to Anatoly Matviyenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u29	Mr. Prime Minister, I truly believe your word. But circumstances have caused me some serious anxiety. You said that more than 30 billion this year would be on the road. Now it's actually within 6.6 billion. Reproofing is under question. Let's sort out some sort of order with this National Bank, and let's show you the character you're attracted to, because otherwise this Guntareva will lead us to the pen. What's with the reprofile, we don't know. The other one. You speak for the infrastructure, for the money of Yanukovich. Give a specific figure on how many of those 40 billion will go into road construction today. And finally the third. 100 million years of Polish credit have not been implemented. Again, there are some unknown reasons that hold back this cross-border cooperation in infrastructure. Well, show a character, let's run this 100 million. We're like a dog in blue: we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u30	Have you finished or given the opportunity to finish? We're done, aren't we? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u31	I'll give you an answer. Dear colleagues of the national MPs, the distinguished Anatoly Sergiyovich, we have foreseen a budget of 15 billion. There were only 5 billion per. Seven billion to pay off the debt, but we've restructured two billion. Moreover, since the Customs overturned, we have already spent 4 billion dollars on roads in just the first three months. So the total is going to be close. What's this all about? The members of the Supreme Council, including at your initiative, the coalitions, Peter Poshenko's Block, the People's Front, have decided to re-file. And another 15 billion were to come from the reprofile. So when you say what I said, I just said that the 15 billion that are in the budget plus 15 reprofile is going to be 30, but I think that's a completely real scenario. We agreed with the National Bank that by the end of June, sorry, all the necessary decisions would be made in May, and in June, we will be taking the initiative to make changes to the budget, and the first 10 billion will be on the road. So 15 plus 10 minus 25; 4 is the execution of the road, 4, it's going to be 29. But the customs office is still working today, and it's giving us some pretty good reinstatements. And we're going to be the total number of roads, except for the local budgets, there's going to be even more than 30 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u32	Thank you. Please ask the following question from the national deputy Kisse. He is given the word of his colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u33	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! I will continue the question of my colleague, who has just asked a question. I'm a stretcher. Several times from this rostrum, from his position as a national deputy, the same question raised with you — the question of the Arciz-Tarutino road, Sarata-Arciz. I was promised, and you say that money will soon be made available, and the pensioners at the district center will be driving on a normal road. Today even buses refuse to travel on this route. I'm asking you, you've been giving orders to the Deputy Prime Minister, and I think there's little money in there. My constituents, the residents of Odessa County, are asking to support the repair of the road I have already mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u34	Thank you. Please. Thank you for asking. Of course, after your question, I'm going to give a task to the vice-premier, who worked with Ukrawtodor. In Ukraine, this is a matter of priority. As soon as there's another distribution of the resource that's arrived. I'm convinced that, well, the fate of probability is very high, that this road is going to get into the title, and it's going to start working. Let's wait for the budget changes so we can make this happen. Understand only the only resource that we've provided with you in the budget. We have already redistributed it to certain objects. You're talking about a new object. We'll do everything we can to ensure its funding. But remember, Odessa-Renie, we're going to build and build, and we're going to build, and we're going to build, and we're going to build, and we're going to build, on this issue, absolutely. Well, let's keep our word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, Oksana Korchinska. Your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u36	Vladimir Borisovich, when you became Prime Minister, you gave the word that we will build our many-suffering national hospital, OHMATDIT. At this point, I'm informing you that we're going to be trying 30 numbers through the court to block the construction of the National Children's Hospital, because the National Police have done nothing to pass on the suspicion of the return of our money stolen from OHMATDIT. For a year and a half, Arsen Borisovich, this question is going to come to you now, I warn you, because in this case these villains of our time, Azarov, will now try to block and condemn 62 million stolen money from our state-owned enterprise, which has already been used by several national deputies and the MoH to return to the state. The National Police don't do anything to pass on suspicions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u37	An understandable question. Just a lot of people who want to ask questions. Please, Mr. Groissman, OHMATDIT, OHMATDIT.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u38	Thank you, thank you for your question. You actually said exactly what I said last year, that we're going to build OHMATDIT. I report, first of all, as promised, we'll build. And now we've got full-scale construction work going on and it's going to be done, no matter who gets in our way, you're speaking correctly. Every day is a good day! While we were solving this knot of corruption problems, we cut it apart, we were only able to unlock the building. But there's all these stories that you're telling us that need both fair and fair court decisions and the approach of the law enforcement system, that's for sure. We understand that, we know that, but we're doing everything we can to complete the construction. Yesterday we adopted order, we need to buy new equipment. Well, it's already, please, I want everything to be very transparent, please take part through ProZorro, buy equipment so everyone can see to every bracelet, what it costs, because that's all. By the way, doctors and the hospital’s collective will be involved, for all of this will serve the health of young children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, I emphasize what they're asking for. I can hear you, don't scream, please. The national deputy approached Mr. Habakkuk with this question. Please, Mr. Avakov, give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, do you copy? Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should get used to the fact that the investigation is being conducted by the National Police. He oversees the investigation, controls, and processes the Office of the Attorney General. So the political question of the national MP who stole OHMATDIT is also very sad for me. But I can't direct the investigation and I shouldn't do it. And you know that very well, madame national MP. And we're looking at all of these issues within our competence.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u41	Thank you. Please, the People's Deputy of Matvienkov of the Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u42	Matweenkov, 57th District, Mariupol. Vladimir Borisovich! Vladimir Borisovich! I'd really like you to hear me. I've heard your statement with attention. I wish it was, well, really convincing, a weight. But I'll ask you one question, look. Deficiency of the Pension Fund 140-150 billion so far. We're talking about the fact that we don't have a change in our retirement fund during this time, we're leaving it with a constant. How can we increase our pension? We have two ways. Or we can redistribute the pension within the Pension Fund, and then the number of people on the verge of survival today will be catastrophic. It's already a minimum pension that you won't be able to live on. But then we'll have to reduce it for someone else to increase it. That's the first question. Or a second question. We have to reduce the number of retirees, but then we have to automatically increase the time limit and then you say wrong. I don't quite understand your calculations when you put down 78 years of life on the assumption that 63 of us have for a man and for a woman, by the way, there too.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u43	Thank you. Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u44	Thank you so much for your question. Now I'm going to give you a complete answer. First. The age of Ukrainian life, you're right, it's a great injustice that we live less than our European neighbours. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about statistics. A retired pensioner lives on an average of 18 years. It's just that, unfortunately, at an early age, people die. And that's a particular topic that we're dealing with today. This is a statistic that I'm telling you that he's 18 years old. Second position. We're going to be saving the same pension deficit for the next year, about 145 billion, it's not going to go up. But where did the money come from? You're right. It's a childish thing. The first step, I said from this rostrum, is to raise the minimum wage. The increase in minimum wage has given us more coverage for those who pay contributions to the Pension Fund. Moreover, of the 16 million workers, 25 percent do not pay the pension fund! And then they come, like, for holy water, for retirement! That's how they have to pay. All who work have to pay contributions to the Pension Fund and receive the right to a just pension. One more thing I'd like to say to you. We're going to need about 12 billion from October 1st to start this funding. We already have 7.9 billion overturns to plan. By October 1st, we're going to have 12 billion to start. What's more, next year we're going to need 30 billion for this! But we're going to make up for this 30 billion on the basis of the pension fund's own income. And this will allow us to keep the deficit at 2017 level. And since 2019, we are convinced that this deficit will begin to decline. But do not even think about reducing the number of pensioners! The pensioner was 60 years old, and he worked hard, please, for retirement. A person is not 15 years of age, has not worked all his life – please go into social protection, get your personalized social support, and it will be less than the person who has worked all his life. This is fundamentally important. And one more thing I was going to say, my friends! We have very harmful professions. Listen very carefully. The shafts, the metallurgy that are on the first and second lists, you know that somehow this list was adjusted last year. But together with the unions, we signed an agreement with the Employers' Federation, which stipulated that a separate pension scheme, pension contributions, would be introduced for these professions. And this will not only allow you to keep this list one, two, which is. And so people can retire early because they can't work in a furnace for 25 years. We understand that. Let's get them out early. And what's more, we're even going to expand the first and second lists more than it is today. And we're going to do it in the interests of those people who are working on harmful manufacturing. This is also a vital innovation in this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u45	Please, dove, a national MP, a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u46	Thank you. I have a question for the Minister of Ecology. Last year, the Ministry of Ecology allocated over 36 million dollars to taxpayers from the environmental fund for the reconstruction of the collector in the city of Złotonoša Cerkaske district. It would seem like a good project if it wasn't for one "but." For example, in this project, the sand was purchased at nearly 2,000,700 dollars per cube. At market price, there are about 60 bracelets. This sand, for example, was purchased by a thousand cubes. Then there was an overpayment of 2.5 million, which was not known where. Please tell me, does the Ministry have a system for monitoring the use of environmental funds? And how does the Ministry plan to react to such things? And a little question to the Prime Minister about the situation surrounding Chercasioblenergo. Because they haven't paid people in five months. The area on the verge of a really energy crisis. Mr. Prime Minister, without your personal intervention, unfortunately, this question will not be resolved because it is already.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u47	Please answer the Prime Minister's question further.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u48	Dear Mr. Vladislav, if I may, I will begin with your first question regarding the use of the environmental program. You know that after the changes to Ukrainian legislation, 20 percent of the environmental tax that is going to come to the general budget of the state budget is 25 percent left to local governments and 55 percent of that tax remains in district budgets to address environmental problems in the territory. According to the decree of the 1147 Cabinet of Ministers, the procedure for the use of these funds, which includes co-financing from both the state and the local government budgets. In order to implement this decision, local government authorities are seeking appropriate co-financing from the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources and as a result of the competitive selection and agreement procedure with the Ministry of Finance and later with the Cabinet of Ministers in 2016. You've rightly noted that the project mentioned by you was financed in the Cherkas region. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Ecology can control only at the design stage, and the use of the funds and prices that have been paid or the costs that have been paid must be a joint audit work, apparently by law enforcement agencies and local self-government authorities. And if there's actually been a payout for jobs or goods, we're with you on one side of the barricade, let's initiate a check and show you the facts, so we can use the measures that are provided for in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u49	Thank you. Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u50	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! I'd like to ask you a question about Kharkiv. You've recently been involved in the opening of the newest Administrative Services Center and you've seen that the city is developing, there are a lot of successful projects. And this year we opened a new subway station, and we continue to work with international financial institutions in this direction. You know, we've been looking for Kabmin's support for this initiative, and we need state guarantees for that. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, is working with us to support the government. Kharkivians hope to be able to build two new stations and an electrodepo. Please support and respond to the government when can such support be counted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u51	Who Will Answer From the Government?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u52	Thank you so much for your question. In fact, on a work trip to Kharkiv district, the head of the district government asked questions about the need for the state to support the construction of the Kharkiv Metro, and then I promised you, the Harkowians promised that we would support it. We are now waiting for documents from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank. As soon as they get here, we're ready to look at them and support the Harks as much as possible with the construction of the subway in this beautiful city. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u53	Thank you. Colleagues, we're here. Two minutes is over, let's see who else can make it, now Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u54	Please tell Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u55	Please, Michael Bondar. Turn on Michael Bondar's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u56	On it, thank you. Mikhailo Bondar, 119 constituency. I have a question for the Minister of Energy, Mr. Igor Stepanovich, to say, please, every time you have a consideration of the concept in the coal sector. Please tell me, when will he be represented in the Cabinet of Ministers so that you can get to know him?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u57	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailo, and thank you for helping me pass the Power Market Act. Thank you for the legislative initiatives that are now in the form of law, which are at the President's signature on the moratorium on the implementation of mines. I should tell you that yesterday at a government meeting I raised this question and the Prime Minister of Ukraine promised that the first question for the next Cabinet of Ministers would be the reform of the coal sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u58	Thank you. And, colleagues, last question from Opanasenko Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u59	Please give the word to Jehor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u60	Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to know why the government does not take the decision proposed by the Minister of Energy to ban the import of Russian coal? In the world, there is no problem with buying coal, more so than Russia’s South African Coal, according to the State Statistics Service last year. However, Ukrainian companies, with the permission of the Ukrainian government last year, paid Russia $1 billion for coal. In fact, the aggressor's economy was funded in this way. What prevents the government from accepting the Energy Minister's offer and adopting a decision to ban Russian coal imports?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u61	That's the last question. Find out who will answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u62	Thank you. If you don't mind, I'll answer. Thank you for asking. First of all, what I want to say is that today we're doing extraordinary things, and we're practically not working with the stations, it's a huge job of energy that doesn't work on a gas group of coal. Its consumption is minimal and it's going to be order 3.5-4 thousand per day, at a time when we were consuming 22-25. A similar situation will continue virtually until mid - September, which will allow us to buy the entire coal group, especially since its volume has decreased by almost two times by last year. In particular, there are three directions where we're going to shop with companies, and how do you know that they're practically all private, in the Ministry there's only "Koluska TEC," they've developed three positions. The first position is that Richard Bay, and it's basically a contract between two DTEK companies and TechNova. The second position is to consider the possibility of providing Kazakh coal. The third position is the United States. And we got confirmation that on May 23, a working group was coming in to fully provide for anthracite groups of the United States. It should be said that not all anthracite is suitable for Ukraine, it is just a young anthracite, where the number of flyers should not be lower than 18 percent. Today our coal reserves are larger than before the fall-winter period, which was 16-17 years. I don't see much trouble preparing for the fall-winter period at all. We've already taken a fundamental step by the Ministry and we've sent a request to the State Fiscal Service and to the Energy Customs to request that, at the time of the coal trade, Ukraine's territory, originating in the ORDLO area, this product be confiscated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u63	Please also Volodymyr Borisovich Groysman, closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u64	Your Honour, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Dear Irina Volodymyrno! Dear fellow national MPs! I want to thank you for your questions. I want to stress that all we're going to do is do it together. We respect and respect the opinion of the people's deputies, we very much want those reforms that will change the lives of Ukrainians to be adopted in this room by this Ukrainian Parliament. And we are counting on constructive cooperation in order to adopt as quickly as possible the changes to the pension system that Ukrainian citizens expect. Thank you for your questions. And we will be happy to always come and report to the national deputies of Ukraine and to the Ukrainian people. Thank you and have a good day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u65	Thank you for the presentation. Thank you for answering the question. I hope that on the parliamentary committee course we will be able to work out, discuss your pension reform project. At this "hour of questions to the government" I declare complete. Let us thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now, according to the Rules, we have 30 minutes to make inquiries. And I invite you to speak to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u66	Thank you, Mr. Head. I want to inform my colleague that we have 266 requests registered. So we don't have any requests for the President of Ukraine today, so I'm going to start announcing to other authorities right now. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir District Council, the head of the Žitomir District State Administration for the provision of a computer class at the I - III School of Computer Education, No. 2 of the City of Zitomir Region with updated computer technology. Victor Razwadowski to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir District State Administration for drilling deep wells in the village of the city type Romanov Žitomir district. Taras Shepherd to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine for the implementation of the Cyber Security Strategy of Ukraine. Helen Stotnik to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for access to an automated information processing system designed to store and store electronic declarations of all entities declared in the BPO and for information on property, income, expenditure and financial obligations of the BSP’s employees. Fedor Negoy to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the abuse of power by the Head of the Herson District Administration of Gordjeev, Director of the Department of Ecology and Natural Resources of the Herson District Administration of Poputko, Head of the Herson Regional Water Administration of Andrianko, Head of the Coastal Administration of Water Management of the Herson District Administration of Lupa. Alexander Abdullin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a warning of the environmental catastrophe of a state-wide scale. Alexander Abdullin to the head of the Ravenna District State Administration for immediate medical care to the resident of the city of Dubrovic of the Plains region of Alli Gladkiy. Valérie Pisarenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the urgent use of measures aimed at halting the illicit circulation of narcotics through the Internet. Alexander Opanasenka to the Head of Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine for information on pension payments. Victoria Ptašnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the non-compliance of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources with Ukraine's deadlines for the import of unregistered pesticides for state trials and scientific research and for the conduct of state registration of pesticides. Olga Belkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the abolition and recognition of invalid paragraph 2 of the Temporary Financial Regulation for Budget Institutions, Social Payments to Population and Financial Support to Individual Enterprises and Organizations of the Donetsk and Lugansk Region, approved by Cabinet Decision No. 595 of 7 November 2014. Olesia Long to Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the production of nuclear fuel in the Kirovograd region. Olesia Long to Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the development of river navigation on the Dnipro River. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the calculation of pensions for military pensioners and veterans of internal affairs. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of a full-scale fire brigade of emergency medical care to the Somali District Council of the Sumski District Centre for Emergency Medical and Disaster Medicine. Michael Bondar, head of the Lviv District Administration, head of the Lviv District Council, head of the Lviv Road Service in the Lviv Region, on the need for repairs to the road to the general use of Torca Ords in the Radehiv region of Lviv. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv district administration, the prosecutor of the Lviv district, the head of the State Service of Ukraine from the extraordinary situation in the Lviv area in connection with the unsatisfying execution of the technical retraining work of the I-II general education school boiler class with the replacement of gas boilers to the solids in the village of Bishov Radehiv district of Lviv district. Alexander Kirsza is under the executive responsibility of the head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the distribution of temporary state support to air - building entities involved in the development or manufacture of constructive components for aircraft. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of the new stations of the Kharkiv Metroline. Igor Lapina to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Paul Rosenk, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the insurance internship of ATO participants. Denis Denserski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Henprocuror, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of the competitive selection of the head of the Barrier State Enterprise. Denis Zenzerski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Henprocuror, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, acting as Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of the competitive selection of the Director of the State Enterprise "Severonational Heat Electrocentral". Alexander Zholobecksky to the prosecutor of the Mikolai district for the use of prosecutorial measures to protect the legitimate rights of the Greygow community to make land. Alexander Zholobecki of the Acting Head of the State Service of Ukraine for Geodesy, Cartography, and cadastre for the conduct of a review of the activities of the General Service for Geodesy of Cartography and cadastre in the Mikolaiiv region and for the restoration of the legal rights of the Graggian community of the Mikolai district to farm land. Anton Yatzenka and Maksim Polakov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the increase in funding from the State budget of Ukraine for the treatment of people with disabilities, including treatment abroad. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of debts to the budgetary organizations of the Orutsky region of the Žitomir region, which resulted from the late financing of Chernobyl payments. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Ecology, Ukraine’s natural resources for the allocation of funds from the State Environmental Protection Fund for the construction of a solid household waste site in the city of Coresten. Sergio Melnika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on debt repayment and timely settlement accounts with municipal enterprises for reimbursement of the benefits and subsidies for housing and utilities. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on non-compliance by the Cabinet of Ministers with current legislation by delaying the appointment of the Secretary of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of introducing new standards of clinical protocols by the Ministry of Health, which conflict with the recognized world methodology of development and use. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a change to paragraph 11 of the Order on Electricity Supply to Consumers, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 24 March 1999 No. 441. Ruslan Solvar to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Agriculture of Ukraine, First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, Minister of Ecology, Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Water Resources of Ukraine for the Protection of Natural Sources of Drinking Water from Pollution. Alexia Lensky to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on providing information on the results of criminal conduct, taking a personal investigation course in connection with the corruption component at the local level and the impossibility of an objective impartial investigation in relation to the former director of KWNZ "Berdicivical Medical College" W. Klimenyuk, using appropriate response measures Alexia Lensky and Ruslan Solvara are under the executive responsibility of the head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the use of emergency response measures for the construction of the Žitomir City College, which is owned by the State Fiscal Service and is in a state of emergency, threatening the life and health of the Collegium workers and educators. Vladimir Gusak to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the provision of information on the availability of debt on the payment of wages to employees of state coal enterprises under the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine. Gregory Times to the Prime Minister about the exclusion from the list of lands to be sold, leased, and located outside the populated villages of Mikhaylovka and the village of Červona dibrova, and are public pastures. Borislava Rosenblatt to the Prime Minister on the need for the establishment of an Expert Commission on the Legality of Joining the Communiversal Education Institute "The Zitomir Special School of Public Education - International I-III Grades No. 1" to the Municipal Institute "The Zitomir Special School of Higher Education I-III Grades No. 2". Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on the construction of a left-hand road solution to the railway - road bridge crossing of the Dnipro River in Kiev on the railway area of Kiev - Moscow-Darnica. Alexander Dehtirczuk to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the transfer of the property complex of the "Rineautotransservis" branch of the Ukrainian State Enterprise "Ukrainteravtoservis" from the state to the municipal property of the Plain District Council. Sergei Vlasenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Chief Editor of the Government Courier on the corruption of budget use by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Sergei Vlasenka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the National Police on the deliberate sabotage of the pre-trial investigation of criminal conduct by the National Police of Ukraine. John Melnichuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the need for a draft act amending the Budget and Tax Codes to define the characteristics of the formation of the budgets of the unified territorial communities. Andrija Galchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on social protection of citizens with special needs. John Melniczuk to Henprocuror of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, head of the Baroque District Council of the Vinnitsk Region for the raiding of leased land in the area of the Baroque region of the Winnitsk Region of the STOV "Podil Star". Andrija Derkača to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on non-compliance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and Ukrainian legislation in the appointment of officials. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister for Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Head of the State Fisheries Agency of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with the requirements of environmental legislation. Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of additional funds from the state budget for the calculation of pensions to veterans of internal affairs. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the need for a replacement or restoration of low-voltage resistance in rural and rural areas of Ukraine. Anatolia Denisenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for granting subsidies from the state budget to local budgets to compensate for the provision of public telephone services to the benefit categories of citizens for the purpose of ensuring uninterrupted and quality telephone service to subscribers in the city of Kharkiv. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the use by the authorities of the National Police of measures to prevent cable theft of telephone lines by the Kharkiv branch of Pat "Shrink" and to ensure effective investigation. Sergija Mishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the cancellation of the commission fee for housing and utility bills. Igor Guza to Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund for the problems of building mine No. 10 "Novolinska". Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the question of suspending the increase in rent for renters of utility property. Groups of National Deputies (Schenceva, Denisenka and others; only nine) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of additional funding to the Kharkiv Research Institute of Forensic Experts of Professor M.S. Bokarios to pay for work and upgrade equipment in 2017. Sergey Leschchenka to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade for the pre-planned examination of specific issues of the activities of the State Reserve Agency of Ukraine. Sergey Lechchenka to the Head of the High Council of Justice for possible disciplinary violations committed by the Head of the Oktavre District Court of Poltava, Alexander Strukov. Vadim Krivohatka to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine for the elimination of the imbalance in pension insurance of pensioners of internal affairs and police John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District State Administration, head of the Visnicke District State Administration of the Cherniewec Region, to assist in the operation of the resident of the village of Mihov Visniki district of Cherniewec region. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District State Administration, head of the Visnicke District State Administration of the Montenegrin Region for the provision of assistance for the treatment of oncought residents of the village of Ispas Visnicke District of Cherniewec Region Arturo of the Chamber to the Authorized Person of the Fund to Guarantee the Investments of Individuals for the Elimination of PAT "Bank Forum" for the provision of information to PAT investors "Bank FORUM" on the formation of the liquidation mass of the bank and the determination of the size of the requirements of creditors of different queues. Igora Lucenka to the First Deputy Manager of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who is in charge of the conduct of the official review and the involvement of guilty persons in disciplinary responsibility. Alexander Brigintz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the warning of the environmental catastrophe of a state-wide scale, due to the absence of standardization of the rules for the adoption of liquid water by enterprises in municipal and local sewerage systems in Ukraine. Tarasa Batenka to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission for the immediate determination of the terms of reference and the appointment of the first elections of the Bibrian Municipal Joint Regional Society of the Lviv Region. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to address the issue of ensuring the realization of coal for residential needs in the city of Gyrska and the city of Zlote Lugansk. Alexander Dobrenkova to the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the need to change the rules on electrical connections. Maxim Burbak to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the objective and impartial investigation of the conflict between volunteers and representatives of the Opposition Block in Chernivka 9-10 May 2017. Anna Romanov to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, on the issue of cost-sharing for the implementation of capital repairs in the hostels of the National University of Technology. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the quality of drinking water. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the abolition of the rules for the adoption of sewage in the utility and news systems for the sewerage of the Ukrainian population. Dmitra Sphenov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on non-compliance with the principles of decentralization and unification of communities against their will. Dmitra Sphenov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to bring public value roads to the Dnipropetrov region to an adequate state that will ensure road safety. Constantine Jarinic to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Minister of Social Affairs, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, on the status and results of the measures taken to carry out the recalculation of pensions to former employees of internal affairs bodies. Constantine Jarinič to the Minister of Finance, who is temporarily responsible for the Ukrainian Minister of Health’s responsibility to take urgent measures aimed at ensuring that citizens who suffer from rare (orphan) diseases, including spinal muscular atrophy, are treated with medical supplies and medical equipment. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Social Affairs for Amendments to the Cabinet Order of 5 April 2012 No. 321 concerning the elimination of discriminatory provisions. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Social Affairs of Ukraine for the payment of pension benefits to children of war. Artema Vítka to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the verification of the presence of shadow business in the National Deputy Sergio Rybalka in the Russian Federation. Artura Martovicko and Igor Šurma to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the collapse of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health of Public Procurement for 2016-2017, which resulted in the absence of medicines and medical supplies at the Ukrainian medical and preventive institutions. Artura Martovicki and Igor Shurma to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the lack of a report and information on the use of the funds of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the implementation in Ukraine of the project "Improvement of Health in the Service of the People" in which our country received about $215 million. Andrea Shipka is under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health for the use of medicines for the treatment of epilepsy in the “Affordable Medicines” programme. Andrea Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing road work in the Dnipropetrovsk region. Alexander Kirsch to Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Viacheslav Kirilenka, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, on the occasion of the 100-year anniversary of the National University of Art of the I.P. Kotlarevsky and the international music festival "Harkovske Assemblies". Alexander Guerrega to the Ukrainian Defence Minister to address the issue of providing the Starocostinian military hospital in the Hmelnicka district with the necessary medicines. Alexander Gerega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the negative consequences in the Hmelnicka region in connection with the construction of the GES High-Dniester Cascade. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the support of investment projects and programmes in the territory of Biloczerkowski, Voddarski, Skirski, Tetiiyivski, Tarostian region of the Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka is in charge of the head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography and cadastre to remove obstacles to the acquisition of land by social workers in the village of Grodište-Pustovska Voddar region of Kyiv region. Sergey Rudika to the head of the Nazcomisi, which regulates the state in the fields of energy and composers on the urgent solution of the issue of cancelling the decision to increase electricity tariffs and to set differentiated tariffs on electricity used for the external lighting of the cities and villages of Kamyanski, Smilyanski, Cherkaski and other areas of the Cherkas region, as well as in Ukraine at large. Sergey Rudika to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine, for conducting a comprehensive audit of the costs of conducting a song competition in Ukraine - 2017. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for changes to the Family Code. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ensuring the right to receive sanatorium treatment at the expense of state funds by participants in hostilities and war invalids. Romana Macsoli to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for Dissatisfaction and Inaction of the Ministry of Defence when considering a parliamentary appeal regarding the clarification of the necessary documents for the appointment and payment of one-time cash assistance in connection with the disability of S.M. Antonyuk. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Defence Minister for Re-examination of the Transfer to Municipal Property of the City of Slavety of the Real Estate of the Non-Military Region A 3845, or the approval of the mechanism for the free allocation of land under individual housing for participants in the anti-terrorist operation that resides in Slavuta and Slavuta region on the basis of the land of the military sector, which is free and not used for purposes. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on compliance with the regulations laid down by law regarding the review of the appeal of the Ukrainian national deputy. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the conduct of a high-quality trial and the timely targeting of criminal proceedings. Igor Vasjunka to the Lviv City Head for the provision of the State Institute of Blood Pathology and Transfusion Medicine of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine for the purpose of establishing a bone marrow transplant center. Aunties Blackwall to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the verification of the presence of another citizen in the Head of the Wallin District Council of the I.P. Bars. Alexander Dombrowski to the head of the Vinnick district administration, the head of the Winnick district council, the Vinnicki city head for the extension of the lease for the Winnick district library named John Frank. Alexander Dombrowski to the head of the Vinnick district administration, the head of the Winnick district council, the head of the Culture and Arts Department of the Vinnick district government for the collection of books and the subscription of periodicals for the Winnick district scientific library of the name Thymirajev. Natalia Katser-Buchkovsky to the head of Naftogazovávávávávávávávávávávávávávávávávávávávávávávávávávávávávávávávávávávávávává, "Outsidenaftogaz" on the appeal of the citizen of Visniak. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the head of the permanent budget commission, the socio-economic development of the Lviv District Council on the allocation of funds for the reconstruction and repair of the Lviv District Council 'Lviv district hospital for re-treatment Dmitra Dobrodomov is head of the State Service of Ukraine in emergency situations, temporarily fulfilling the responsibilities of the Head of the State Water Agency of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the National Police Directorate in the Hmeljna Region, Director of the Department of Ecology and Natural Resources of the Hmeljna District Administration, Head of the National Police Directorate in the Hemisphere Region, Head of the National Environmental Inspectorate in the Hmeljna Region, with the aim of halting the systematic violation of the requirements of Ukrainian environmental legislation, which led to the emergence of an extraordinary situation around the Rivers of Gomorrah and the Case. Vladimir Melnicken to Henprocuror of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the immediate use of measures regarding the objective investigation of serious crime. Vasil Janicka to head of the State Service of Ukraine in emergency situations, Head of the General Office of the State Service of Ukraine in a state emergency situation in the province of Rivena to resolve the transfer of the dormitory on the street of Pravka, 1 in the city of Varas Ravena to the municipal property of the territorial community Mr. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the Equality District State Administration for the provision of treatment for patients with hypopituitarianism in the Plains region Vadim Krivohatka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the headship of the State Administration of the State of Constantine Brill in the military service of the Ukrainian Security Service. Igor Kotwiecki to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine on Environmental Control of Automobile Gases. Vadim Yvchenk to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine regarding the prevention of bankruptcy of state-owned enterprises in the scientific profile. Sergia Matvienkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the legislative co-operation concerning the exemption from the EU's obligation to pay EU-owned enterprises located in the ATO. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and municipal services in order to help restore the ability of rural people to save their lives in the light. Sergey Larina to Henprocuror of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on an unbiased trial of a crime committed in relation to a citizen of the Republic of Korea, Choi Young Hugh. Victor Ostapchuk to the so-called Minister of Health of Ukraine on the plans of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding Pat's well-known hospitals, Ukrzalznica. Groups of National Deputies (Vojcitsky, Stotnik and others; only 149 deputies) to the Head of the BSC on the verification of the presence of the national deputies of the country of citizenship (subordination) of the foreign state. Vladimir Parasuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent solution to the problems of land shortages for participants in hostilities in the area of Novoyavorysk and the death of Ivano-Frankov in the region of Lviv. Vladimir Parasuka to Henprocuror of Ukraine for the full and comprehensive investigation of the criminal conduct of the rape of a 24-year-old girl in the Lviv region. Sergey Kaplina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of the recalculation of pensions to the persons in charge and the composition of the internal affairs bodies. Borislav Bereza to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for information. Borislav Bereza to the Head of the Ukrainian State Service for War veterans and participants in the ATO, head of the Kiev City State Administration for information on ATO volunteers who received the status of a participant in the fighting. Tetjana Ostrikov to Prime Minister of Ukraine about radio frequency. Aunt Ostrikov to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine about providing information on the amount of Ukraine's external debt. Andrija Vadaturski to the Prime Minister on the economic consequences of implementing investment projects in accordance with Law No. 5205-VI of Ukraine and the possibility of giving five-year vacations to income tax for investment entities that create new jobs. Andrija Vadaturski to the Ministry of Defence for the Construction of the 1st and 1st camp complexes of the camp town to house the brigade in the field camp 235 of the Inter-Knowing Center for the Preparation of Units (ICPD), the village of Ulyanivka (the village of Mikhailivka) in the Mikolai district. Irina Konstankevitch to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine to provide information on road repairs and to include in the road repairs of the Kashirsky, Kiwertsevsky, Lubeshivsky, and Manevicki areas of the Volin region. Irina Konstankevich to the head of the Constitutional Commission, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the State-guaranteed protection of the family institution, traditional Ukrainian family values, and morals. Jury Levchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Head of the Žitomir District Government Administration, Head of the Žitomir District Council on the allocation of budgetary allocations to finance the construction of Artesian wells for the purpose of providing the inhabitants of the villages of Brezyanka, Pritipivka and the Bohemian Region with drinking water. Jury Lewchenka to Henprocuror of Ukraine, head of the National Police of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to respond to the inaction of the law enforcement authorities of Kiev on the investigation of the circumstances of the theft of property and of funds, particularly large-scale co-owners of apartment building No. 16/2, located on the prospectus of Paul Tirina in Kiev. Oksana Bilozer to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Service of Ukraine for geodesy, cartography and cadastre, the head of the Cerkas Regional Public Administration for the implementation of measures to ensure the purpose of the assignment of land included in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Order No. 284 of 13 March 2002 to the territory of the State Historical and Cultural Reserve "Triple Culture". Groups of people’s deputies (Markovicha, Marchenka, and others) Only 19 of our colleagues) to the Head of the National Aviation Service of Ukraine to postpone the adoption of the Concept for regulating the direction of unmanned aircraft. Igor Popov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the verification of the price surplus in the purchase of imported natural gas. Igor Popov to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine to verify possible corruption in the purchase of imported natural gas. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, on the increase in the state's expenditure on education. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, is temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine for the increase in pay for the protection work. Work in the field of health. Andrea Illenka, head of the Kyiv City Government Administration, Head of the Permanent Commission of the Kyiv City Council for Urban Affairs, Architecture and Land Use, Director of the Department of Urban Planning and Architecture of the Kyiv City Public Administration, on the basis of public proposals for the project of the Detailed Plan of Housing Area of the Dniprovi District of Kiev. Andrew Illenka to Henprocuror of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the provision of statistical information on the discovery of conducts and the prosecution of crimes provided for in article 436-1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography, and Cadastra on the allocation of land and financing of the R-17 Road in the city of Bila Church of Kiev. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, on the need to amend the current legislation of Ukraine on higher education institutions of the I-II levels of accreditation. Alexander Villukla to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Home Affairs of Ukraine, Authorized President of Ukraine for the Rights of the Child, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Henprocuror for Statistics on Children's Suicides in Ukraine in 2013-2016, and measures aimed at preventing them. Leonidas Hamtsa to the Kiev City Head for the capture of the instigation area of the Krystatstick Houses of the Pecher district of Kiev Roman Semenha to Kyiv City Head, Director of the Department of Urban Planning and Architecture of the Kyiv City State Administration for the restoration of the function of CNS No. 216 at the city of Kyiv, 16th Popudrenka Street. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, director of the Department of Human Resources Testing and the license of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the status of the examination of the dissertation work of Tetjana Bruhanova. Yurya Drevijanka to Kabmin on the need for funding from the National Budget of Ukraine for the reconstruction of the I-III School of Public Education with the construction of a corps for the 14th grade, boiler and administrative premises in the village of the Black Stream of the Ivano-Frankiv region. Jurya Derevjanka to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the need to verify the results of the PAT Centrenergo auction from the purchase of 700,000 tonnes of coal for the Dragon and Trippilian TES and the reasonableness of the value of the purchase of the product. Paul Kishkar to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the inaction of prosecutorial authorities in investigating fraud during land privatization. Groups of National Deputies (Dublika, Kadikala and others; only 5 of our colleagues) to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on violations of environmental law requirements in the territory of the Žitomir region, such as the pollution of the rivers Svet and Homo. Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of financing the united territorial communities of Žitomirščina. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of a school in the village of Sadowa Arci district, on the extension of the construction and operation of schools in the villages of Minajlovka Saratsky and Terutina Prefectures of the Odessa region. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to address the situation in the area of the road by connecting the "Cannes-Alexandrovka" of the Tarutin region of Odessa, which is located in the Republic of Moldova. Yurya Timoshenko to the Colomia City Head of the Johno-Frankow region for not allowing the closure of the Colemoya interdistrict cancer dispenser. Jury Timoshenko to the Prosecutor of Odessa for information and action. Yurya Solovya to the head of the Ivano-Frankow District Administration, head of the Ivano-Frankow District Council for the allocation of funds for the operation of the Administrative Services Centre in the district of Ivano-Frankow. Andrija Shinković to the prosecutor of the Hmelnicki district on the facts that may testify to the fraud by S.H.I.E.L.D. officials. Andrija Šinkovič, under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Hmeljna District Public Administration, Head of the Hmeljna District Council for the provision of funds for the acquisition of a mammography for the needs of the "Specialized Medical and Sanitary Region of Neteshina". Jury Solova to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the implementation of energy efficiency measures in the region of Kosovo, the Supreme and Svetienne. Alexander Sugonjako to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Pension Fund, Head of Security Service, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the non-retiremental provision of pensioners of the force. Edward Matviychuk to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates the state in the fields of energy and utilities, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the Odessa District Public Administration, the Odessa City Council on the need for a comprehensive review of the collective appeal of the owners of house 39 on the street of John Frank of Odessa on the solution of the problem of the establishment of individual gas counters free of charge in the apartment of the house and the protection of citizens' rights under the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation. Oleg Petrenko, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the protection of the right of citizens to conduct religious activities Grigoria Times to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-transfer of land to individual citizens for the conduct of private agriculture, which is located outside a residential area within the administrative boundaries of the Toporov Rural Council of the Czernovetsec Region. Leonidas Hamtsa to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, on the need to take urgent measures to prevent the gross violation of the rights of young children who visit a nursery type for children with digestive diseases in the Solomonian district of Kiev. Edward Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Odessa District Public Administration, the Odessa City Council on the need for an objective review of the appeal of widows who live in the Kyiv region of Odessa, who had benefits from war veterans in accordance with Ukrainian legislation, some of whom are disabled by the second group, on a comprehensive solution to the issue of granting housing and other services under extended conditions, as well as providing the necessary comprehensive legal and social assistance to pension applicants in order to prevent them from lowering their standard of living and social protection. Robert Gorvato to the Head of the National Aviation Service of Ukraine for the transfer of responsibility for air traffic services and for the operation of Uzhgrad International Airport. Robert Gorvati, under the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for the development of draft regulatory acts in the field of water of natural mineral and the order of the definition of water of natural mineral food. Ruslana Demczak "to the editor-in-chief of the "33rd Channel" newspaper on the cessation of the distribution of unreliable information about me as the national deputy of Ukraine who violates my personal rights and the need to publish the answer to the unreliable information contained in the 33rd Channel newspaper. Ruslana Demchak to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services for the Renewal of Decision No. 761-R of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 20 October 2004 "On measures to improve the lighting of the population sites" regarding the conduct of the tax on electricity used for the external lighting of villages and villages. Jurya Bereza to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the allocation of additional funding to ensure the functioning of higher education institutions at the I-II levels of accreditation. Dear colleagues! Thank you. I read and published all the 266 questions that we had registered with the National Deputies during the last month. And also before the presidency, the Parliamentary Secretariat, there have been several requests to the Parliamentary Chamber from members of the people who are not satisfied with the answers that have come to their questions. Right now, according to the rules, we have 10 minutes to get these national MPs to make the speeches. Capplin Sergey is unhappy, but he's not here today. Matthew's Sergei's not happy, he's not. The storm of the Games is not satisfied, it is. Please, Mr. Shurma, I invite you to the rostrum. Then Igor Popov and then Lechchenko Sergei. And that's where we end up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u67	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen! I want to raise the subject of unskilled, unprofessional answers from the Ministry of Health. Those who receive letters from the Ministry of National Affairs are not the only ones who, in response to a request, confirm the unprofessional officials who work there today. In my request to the MP, a list of medicines and waste materials for the treatment of children with oncohematological diseases who are now absent from warehouses and in preventive care facilities was provided. These drugs were to be purchased by the Ministry of Health. The MP's request required urgent action to ensure that the National Children's Hospital OHMATDIT is provided with the necessary medical equipment and the requirement to initiate investigations with a view to identifying those who put children in danger of life and health. In its response, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine has repeatedly confirmed its absolute incompetence and incapacity. The answer contained a note with promises to redistribute drugs when they arrived in the MoE with information from the regions. What does this indicate? First of all, how can we redistribute? This is a testimony that the applications were made in a formal manner, that they were sent to the region simply to send, and now they are searching where they are needed, they are not available, and where they are not needed, they need to be taken. There's nothing the ministry can do to help, because the purchases of 2016 are still going on, and today they're in the courtyard of May 2017. According to information on the purchase of cancer and onc hemorrhagic drugs, the organization’s website, such as UNDP, is kindly offered to monitor the supply of essential drugs. Only on May 3, 2017, the Ministry approved the distribution of medicines for the treatment of children with oncomedical diseases, which is at the expense of 2016. It was only at the cost of these drugs under the Children's Oncohematology programme today that 15 percent came, and in 2017 no one thought of putting anything. It is because of the lack of necessary drugs and waste materials after the redistribution approved by the order that most areas do not get enough of these drugs to treat patients. The Poltava region, for example, receives 4 vials, Ivano-Frankivska, 24 vials. It's just funny and not even funny. No drug was purchased in 2017. Dear MOHO officials, I would like to point out that in Ukraine, as still, a purchasing disaster, little patients with oncogenic diseases are left without the necessary drugs every day. I don't know who to turn to, I call people to let you know who's to blame. Today, the Ministry of Health does nothing without a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u68	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Igor Popov, who is categorically and radically dissatisfied with the answer he received. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, one of the main programming requirements of the Radical Party is to lower prices for municipal tariffs for the population. And we're doing a tariff analysis of how they're made, we're getting from the National Commission, which regulates tariffs, cancels counter fees, we're asking the government to return state control over gas distribution networks, which by law is supposed to do so, but it's still controlled by oligarchs. And here's the information that there's an abuse in the purchase of imported gas. The Naftogaz of Ukraine reports that they're buying gas from not Russians, not Gazprom, and it's a huge victory. Of course, that's right, we can't buy gas from an aggressor state, but we buy it from European traders. However, what is the price of this purchase? As it turns out, with the gas price of $120-130 per thousand cubic metres, Naftogaz bought 200 in European intermediaries and it turns out the same Russian gas pipeline. Did we not overpay too much, and how did they formulate the price? I asked Naftogazu accordingly and they confirmed that we're paying for gas, like we're buying physically in Germany on a German hood in Baumgarten, and then we're paying someone to transport this gas to Ukraine. Although we actually take this physical gas out of the pipe, of course it mixes. Are we overpaying these intermediaries too much? Because unfortunately, this whole price, this whole overpayment then comes on a tariff for every consumer, for every thermocommunergo, and then every Ukrainian has to pay someone, foreign intermediaries, ours, our oligarchs for having this Russian gas driven back to Germany first, then brought back. And worst of all, it is to this price with double nonexistent transit, with double nonexistent reverses, that the price is then tied to the Ukrainian gas. We know that Ukrainian gas is produced here in Ukraine, it's produced quite a bit, but it's sold to the Ukrainian consumer and placed on our tariffs at the same price as we pay for non-existent reverses to Germany and back. I'm asking Naftogazu to look at the pricing mechanism, of course we're not calling for gas to be bought into the Russians, but we need to review the contracts and pay, let's say 10 percent of the price to those traders who are brokers in this purchase, not overpaid 50 percent, because that's what every Ukrainian is suffering from. And we're asking law enforcement to consider who signed these contracts that only last year sent about $700 million from each Ukrainian?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u70	Thank you. Please, the last dissatisfied with the response received by the People's Deputy Lechchenko Sergius, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u71	Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine! I'm being referred to as the Kyiv deputy by the people of the capital who are talking about the horrors that are taking place in the city of the former Blue Market, where they are now trying directly at the center of the city to build some Manhattan, some sort of sleeping area, where they're going to build only two acres of 113,000 square meters of housing and offices, over 900 apartments. This will not just create a collapse of transportation – it will completely destroy the historic landscape of the city. And I was asked to the government, as a result of this request, I got an answer about the suspension of work from the State Architectural Inspection. But it has been found that residents of the region report that neighbors, journalists, bloggers, activists, who continue to fight, and for this they are given a clichéd thank - you job. We demand this statement, and we will continue by lettering to demand that the State Architectural Inspectorate suspend any work at the time of the construction check. Because this Manhattan or this sleeping area right here in the city of historic forgetfulness, where the buildings of the 19th century in Kiev, it's going on behind documents that have already become invalid. So the documents were issued on one land, and now there is no land. Now there are three separate plots of land and accordingly this construction is illegal. Similarly, we demand that the prosecutor of Kyiv's city, Mr. Gowda, bring to an end the threat of murder of an MP of the Kyiv City Council of Olga Balitsky, who was actually threatened with murder for actively fighting this illegal blockade. And what's more, who's behind this forget, where they're trying to build a new microregion in the center of the city? It turns out that he was surrounded by former Henprocuror Jarem, a man who was released from office because he did not investigate crimes against Yanukovic, because he did not demonstrate progress, sanctions were lifted and so on. Now these people are trying to legalize themselves through construction in downtown Kiev. And using the opportunity to show what the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office is, I'm showing from this rostrum a document that I've already talked about everywhere in the briefings this week. The Attorney General's Office has blocked the detention and arrest of Yuri Boyk in the case of Kürchenk's seized gas. This submission was prepared two years ago in July 2015 by investigator Andriano Lupa, then blocked by Shockin, Lucenko came along and continued to block it. The fight is qualified as a member of the Kurchenka criminal organization, which led to the looting of state property for $5.7 billion, at that rate it was $700 million. Lucenko is doing nothing, all of my MPs are doing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u72	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. For three minutes you expressed your dissatisfaction with the answer you received. Dear colleagues, we're all exhausted. And the questions of MPs who were dissatisfied with the answers I received, I announced all the parliamentary requests. Now, according to the Rules, I'm calling a break until 12:30. At 12:30, my colleague, Oksana Siroid, will begin work on the "Rizzne" section, so everyone who wants to be in this section, please don't be late and come back to the session room to participate in the "Razne" series. Thank you, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u73	Dear National Deputies! We're continuing our work. Let's move on to the national MPs' performances in "different." Please prepare for entry. Please hold the recording. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Vladislav Doub. Microphone, please turn it on. It's not working. Microphone, please turn it on. The microphone's not working. Please secure the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! I'm about to have to draw your attention to the beautiful city of Goldenfoot, which I have in my district and in Chercastia. The city, indeed, is beautiful, but local authorities, to put it mildly, are not very beautiful. I have repeatedly raised a question from this high rostrum about the corruption of local authorities led by the city’s head, Wojciechowski. I would like to remind all of you of what this official was able to remember. It was for his guidance that tens of millions of tax payers were used to rebuild clean buildings. The repeated festive discoveries of the so-called reconstructed cleaners had already been carried out, but in the Suha Zhar River, which Wojciekhivski cynically calls "the puddle," all the filth of the city and the surrounding areas continue to flow. A criminal case is now under way, but it is now trying to influence an expert to gain a positive conclusion from building expertise because of its linkages in the area’s leadership. Next: To buy at the highest price in our entire state of technical salt to clean up the snow in the city. But local authorities do not stop at this. In December last year, about 30 million dollars were won, again, your citizens, the cost of repairing the collector. It would seem a good thing if it wasn't for one "but" -- those are the prices for which building materials were purchased. Think of it, fellow countrymen, dear Ukrainians! The cube of sand was purchased for $2,000,700 at the market value of 60 gravel sand. A thousand cubes of sand were bought. Then more than two and a half million bracelets were found to be unknown where, and in truth, it is clear where. Again, criminal conduct has been discovered. But the city’s power, feeling its own impunity, continues to move in the right direction. Now, despite the total resistance of the city and the village of Nova Dmitrovka, it's trying to push forward the eco-TES project. According to environmentalists, the project will cause lasting damage to the city’s inhabitants and nearby villages. To Vojciekhivsky and the health company, the health of their own citizens is of no importance, for they themselves are not treated in a local hospital that is not assisted in any way; their children do not receive medical services in Goldilocks but are far outside the city. And for the health of the city and the area, they don't give a shit, and the main thing is to put their own pockets into the money that they're going to do with the project. And those residents who lack the courage to express their disagreement with the actions of the city’s authorities, Złotokoshi, are being threatened in style, as they were taught by the curators of the Yanukovic regime, whose members they were and remain. The state funds are being stolen through the City Water Channel utility. And here's last week's coworkers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u75	I'm asking you to just invest in time. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u76	Last week, security officials detained one of the directors of the listed enterprise who received bribes in the form of a payroll deduction from one of their subordinates. And such actions are unprecedented and unique. According to some other employees of this utility, as well as active city dwellers, a criminal group for the theft of state funds has been built in Złotońsk. Dear colleagues, do we see Ukraine like this? Except for that, the heroes in Midan were killed and are still giving up their lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, do we agree that three minutes and that's where we end up with no extra time? Okay. Then, by all means. Please, National Deputy Oleg Lazko, instead of the National Deputy Kirichenko and Lensky. Six minutes, all right. Please, Oleg Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u78	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, I would like to discuss with you today two very important issues that the authorities call reform, pension reform and land reform. Does Ukraine need pension and land reform? Of course you do. Because when millions of Ukrainians are working 20, 30, 40 years of age, then they get cash pensions, it's not pensions, and it's begging that people can't buy basic pills in a pharmacy. Does Ukraine Need Land Reform? Of course you do. Because when peasants own their assignments, they get a penny of rent for these assignments, and oligarchs take tens of millions of tons of grains abroad and make billions of dollars, they're also definitely the kind of things that don't work for our team. But what does the authorities offer? What does the government offer? Today Prime Minister Groissman presented to us what we call a pension reform. The goal of this pension reform is to make it possible for as few Ukrainians as possible to receive a pension. Today, in Ukraine, 12 million pensioners, if they accept the so-called pension reform proposed by today’s authorities, will be left with 5 million people who are entitled to a minimum pension. And everyone else will receive what's called social assistance, like in Georgia, $8 a month is social assistance. Here, take it and live for that social assistance. Why do we say that? Because look at the draconian proposals the government is making. They want a minimum of 15 years of service today, and at 60 years of age, you can retire. Today, the government is offering 35 years of service. And the Prime Minister gives an example of a man who was born in 1958 and who will retire. Yes, in 1958, when he was born, he may have had a career. For with the Soviet authorities they all worked, and for the Tunisians they planted even in prison. What if we took people in 1978, 1988, 1998? If we take the people who went through the 1990s and 2000s, when millions of businesses stopped their jobs, when millions of Ukrainians in the markets, at the stations, at the buildings worked without a job, they don't have a job to do, I ask them where to get their pension? They will not have a pension in accordance with the bill proposed by the government. The government in the so - called pension reform has taken away the right to retire to teachers, doctors, and social workers. Instead, they leave the procurator and the judge with a special pension policy! German Iron Chancellor Otto von Bismarck said, "Who doesn't want to finance schools will fund prisons." It seems that the authorities want to finance only prosecutors and judges rather than finance teachers, doctors, librarians, cultural workers, and simple workers. And if you don’t finance, at least don’t take what you have! Because when people work hard, they have to get a normal pension. Alternatively, as an alternative to what the government is proposing, the Radical Party is proposing a completely different approach to increasing pensions. To our firm conviction, the goal of pension reform must be one. It's an increase in pensions. So that a person who works hard all his life would know that he would get a normal pension, which would allow him to live, not beg, and not pick up bottles on garbage to sell them in glassware and earn three cents to pay for the utility. Why? The government doesn't offer to raise wages, that's what we're proposing, because 3,200 minimum wages are not enough. So we've registered a bill to make the minimum wage at least 5,000 dollars a month. And the only way to raise pensions is to raise wages, it's to create jobs. Because when the authorities tell us that it takes 35 years of retirement insurance, it takes 65 years of retirement, because they actually raise the retirement age, they cheat the Ukrainians, when they say they don't raise the retirement age when they cancel the teachers' pension, for doctors, then the pension won't add up. Because the government does not answer the key question: What will be the pension of a 35 - year - old? Do they guarantee that this pension will make it possible to live with dignity? No, it's not. Because the only way to get a normal pension is to have a big legal salary. And when a minimum wage is paid legally, and everything else is paid in an envelope, when a person is working without a job, he will not have an internship for a normal pension. So I'm going to talk to President Poshenko, to Prime Minister Groysman, to the Compradorian Parliamentary Coalition, which is not in this room, we don't have to cheat Ukrainians, we're tired of your lies, we need a real pension reform, and as a result of which future pensioners, he's sitting on the balcony of young people, tomorrow's pensioners, I want them to get a decent pension when they get a decent job. And the second question I would like to draw the attention of the Ukrainians is the question of the earth, the ancient question. The authority to implement a secret memorandum with the International Monetary Fund wants to sell land and raise the retirement age. The Radical Party demands that we sell, not the land, but the produce produced on this earth. That's why we've registered changes to the Constitution, where we propose to predict at the constitutional level that agriculture is the basis of the agricultural system of Ukraine. Because when the authorities launch the so-called land market. Why are we against him? For one reason: Because the land is not purchased by peasants, because they have no money to buy it, and the owner of the Ukrainian land must be a Ukrainian farmer, not a latipound and a transnational corporation. That's what we're standing on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u79	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u80	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. The government has not had a legitimate minister of health in Ukraine for a year, and the Cabinet of Ministers has been completely undervalued. All the terms for this office have come up, but not everyone is silent that there are problems in the Ministry itself. Yes, for five months now the Ministry of Health has no secretary of state. The work of the Ministry of Health is practically paralyzed and ineffective. There are problems with professional training in the organization and management process. In accordance with the new State Service Law, by the end of 2016, State secretaries were to be appointed in all ministries, including the Ministry of Health. On October 11, the Cabinet of Ministers announced a competition to serve as secretaries of state. The competition of State Secretaries was accompanied by numerous scandals, and it was not without problems in the Ministry of Health. December 7 was named the winner of the post of Secretary of State of the Ministry. In the meantime, the one performing the duties. the temporary minister’s responsibilities immediately opposed his appointment. The Cabinet of Ministers, in charge of which the appointment of State Secretaries from the situation has decided to proceed in a verifiable manner, has submitted the nomination for special review, the results of which have not yet been published to date. Instead, the Secretary of State is acting as Deputy Minister of Health for European Integration, although under article 17 of the Law on State Service, the Head of the State Authority may be only a civil servant, and the Deputy Minister himself was not then admitted to the State Secretary’s post because of the lack of necessary experience. The Deputy Minister of Health applies to the court for a lawsuit in which he requests that the decision of the competitive commission be annulled. In connection with this court, an administrative case that has not been decided to date has been opened. The deputy minister, concerned about securing an administrative order by banning Kabmin from taking action to appoint a winner. Kyiv’s administrative district court denied a deputy minister for European integration in meeting this problem. Under the law, the Secretary - General should take up his duties on January 1, 2017. The special inspection shall be carried out within a period not exceeding 25 calendar days from the date on which the consent has been granted, and all legal periods have been exhausted. Thus, the Cabinet of Ministers should appoint the winner of the competition for an appropriate position, even if the case is before the court and the results are being sued. I refer to the government, led by Prime Minister Groisman of Ukraine, to confirm the position of the person who won the competition. Otherwise, if there are specific claims, I demand that you announce a new competition and, most importantly, give the state a health minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u81	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Victor Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u82	Good afternoon, fellow citizens of Ukraine! Once again, I want to draw your attention to the political responsibilities and responsibilities of all political forces and politicians to fulfill their pre-election promises. As you remember, both the President of Ukraine and the coalition of MP factions have promised us to carry out a profound, inclusive political reform as they proceed to the elections. Part of this reform should have been the abolition of parliamentary immunity, part of which should have been the adoption of new electoral legislation, part of which should have been the adoption of new legislation for the implementation of the President's impeachment institution. Nothing's been done yet. On April 4, a rally took place on the Constitution Square before the Supreme Council, whose resolution adopted a call to the President of Ukraine and to the Head of the Supreme Council to fulfill their electoral promises, and to initiate a discussion in the Supreme Council Hall of relevant legislative acts. In a direct appeal to the President of Ukraine, we received a resolution, and the rally representatives received a reply, not by signature from the President, but by signature from the head of his office, Mr. Reinin. And you know what we were written there? What the President has been waiting for three years from the Supreme Council is that the Supreme Council will adopt the relevant legislative acts and submit them to the President for signature. That's ridiculously ridiculous. I want to say that Peter Poshenko must have forgotten his own pre-election program, "Living in a new way," in which black on white tin iron was written that he would do everything possible and impossible for the election of national deputies in 2014 to take place on a new electoral system with open lists. I would like to say that the faction that bears the honorary name of the President of Ukraine, the faction of "Peter Prashenko's Block" does not carry out its political duties and does not submit, rather than initiate, the Supreme Council's consideration of the bills that deal with these issues. On February 22, I remind everyone, on February 22, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice and Legal Policy had already taken its decision recommending that the Supreme Council consider three bills on the election of national deputies, to consider in the Hall. To date, these bills have not been submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Moreover, the Head of the Supreme Council has been delegated to the People's Front faction, the faction of the People's Front of Ukraine, which also heads the working group in the process of new electoral legislation, has not responded at all to the resolution of this rally and to the citizens' appeal to it from this rally. In doing so, he showed how he discharges his constitutional authority and his attitude toward the constitutional requirements of his citizens to fulfill their obligations. I would like to say again, in view of all this, there was another rally last Tuesday before the Supreme Council of Ukraine and it was accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u83	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u84	I would like to remind the citizens of Ukraine, dear friends, not to vote for those politicians who do not keep their promises that lie to you at the beginning of the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u85	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Oleg Kuprienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u86	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Dear people of Ukraine! Dear voters! Dear taxpayers! Dear colleagues who have stayed in the hall, and 9 of them are BPP, 7-8 are the People's Front, 1 is the Opposition Block, 3-4 are Self-Help, and the Radical Party of Oleg Láška is fully stocked. Look at this statistic, look at those you've chosen, and where they are now in working time, at a time when the word of the national MP and the problem of the people can be brought to your knowledge and to your consciousness. The leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, has just pointed out that we have been fighting and fighting to improve the health status of Ukrainians. In particular, I have to stress that the leading institutions of our state, such as the Amosova Institute, the Shalimov Institute, are now on the verge of extinction. By accepting the state budget of the warring Ukraine and telling all of us that there is no army without a budget, and that is, indeed, yes. The government and, in particular, the Ministry of Health, which is required to care for and calculate all expenses, as a minimum, in order to maintain medicine in the state in which it is, have not taken care of those two important institutions. We're a group of people's deputies of the Radical Party, Oleg Láska, led by her leader, we've registered Bill 5723, which was considered by the Committee on Budgets, as everyone has said, how good it is to support our doctors, who are doing unique operations. It happened that I spent a long time in an important scientific institution, and I saw doctors doing the most difficult operations, with lights in their eyes and enthusiasm for medical science. I've seen nurses who work all the time in resuscitation, and instead of resting reading scientific literature, they even share experiences with doctors. But they don't have a salary. Why? Because there are only five months of funding in the budget. And so, in my speech, I am addressing the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, who somehow does not see where our medicine is, the Prime Minister, Mr. Groissman, the acting minister of health, please propose legislation accordingly, and demand that as a citizen, pay attention and resolve the financing of the Amosov and Shalimov Institutes, without our support, without resolving the issue, the medical sector will perish. I demand that by delegation my address be addressed to the President, the Prime Minister and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u87	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Denis Silantiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u88	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Lacha. Dear Ukrainian communities, dear colleagues, I would like to inform you about the radical party's initiative to create conditions for the development of physical culture and sport in Ukraine. What are we talking about? Between 2011 and 2016, the legislation introduced a moratorium on changing the target destination of land for the construction and maintenance of physical and sports objects. The state of such lands today is a very flattering piece for unprofitable builders. Why so? But because they are in the prestigious parts of the city. And it's not about hundreds, it's about hectares of land. I assure you, these builders will not be tormented by their consciences when they erect another altitude in the land where children were in their favorite sports activities yesterday. And it's not some abstract thing, it's not a potential threat, it's a completely real fact of abuse, of actions that are often irreversible. Let me give you a few examples. A stadium near the National Aviation University in Kiev The KMDA’s decision changed the destination of the land from a sports assignment to a commercial one. There are several floors in front of the stadium, and the next is to be built in the stadium area. Another example. Sport complex: city of Kiev, bulvar of the Friends of the Nations, 16a It's where the Nouveau supermarket and the multi-story store are beautiful, and all that's left of the stadium is just memories. And what's interesting is that this has happened without the involvement of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine in the use of this land. This list can be continued forever. That is why, according to the initiative of the Radical Party, Oleg Láska, a bill on moratoriums has been introduced to change the target destination of land with the aim of preserving physical and sports objects for 10 years. The task of the law is to prevent mass destruction of sports infrastructure in cities and other populated areas. The introduction of a moratorium will make it impossible to transfer land for sports purposes to residential and office buildings, farm facilities, and auto-fuelling facilities. It is also worth noting that this moratorium has been in effect from 2011 to 2016 and has shown its effectiveness, but the five-year deadline has expired and these land areas are now at risk. I would also like to remind you, fellow Members, that only with specific things, concrete actions will we show the people of Ukraine that we care about them, about their children, about their healthy future. And this is not the first initiative of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska towards the development and preservation of social guarantees for people in Ukraine. I assure and invite the entire Parliament to unite for the future of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u89	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u90	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians! Yesterday was a great day, embroidery day. Throughout Ukraine and around the world, Ukrainians wore embroidery to show their unity, their patriotism. But in the Supreme Council, despite the fact that a lot of deputies came in the embroidery, it didn't appear particularly at work, unfortunately. Because there are showcases that better than any word, the paphos show a real schedule in the Ukrainian Parliament, and how Ukrainian it is. Yesterday was, in fact, a very obvious question -- the decision to impose sanctions against Yanukovic and his immediate environment. A decision that would seem to have been made in fact in the Post - Majdanian Parliament without any serious discussion. And we can see that it didn't pass. And it wasn't just the ex-regions that voted for it, that there's nothing strange about it, but it's like in a minority in parliament, it wasn't voted for by a lot of MPs from so-called democratic factions, from overpowered factions that. Many of whom are also certain to have come to the embroidery on that day, and they certainly believe that everyone should think that he is a great patriot, but even for such a simple decision, he did not vote for this unfortunate decision. We will never build a healthy political culture, we will never really be able to have a normal parliament unless we are personally responsible for our actions in politics. And so I urge all Ukrainians to study this kind of vote carefully and to see who speaks only and who really takes the right position. Who wears embroidery, but behind this embroidery rot, and who really is a patriot. And it's not in words, it's in votes like this. Or even another question. Which it was yesterday, too. The laws that applied to the Russian Orthodox Church in Ukraine should be said that way. This is the Russian Orthodox Church in Ukraine, called the UPC MP, but this is an organization run by Moscow. There were laws that applied, not to ban there or to any religious oppression, but to normalize its activity in relation to the fact that it was subordinated to the center in the aggressor state. This question was deliberately put at the end of the day, knowing 100 percent that it would not reach it. And you think it's just the regions that were against this decision? No, it was a lot of MPs from overpowered factions who did everything they could to make that decision not go away. So this is the kind of thing you have to pay attention to, this is the kind of thing you have to focus on, and it's only then that we can get the normal quality of Ukrainian politics. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u91	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Gregory Sverk. Please, National Deputy Borislav Bereza.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u92	Every Friday we see an empty session hall, half empty, a quarter empty, two thirds empty, but empty. And in order not to fix it, I, Victoria Ptashnik and Vladislav Doube passed a bill that deals with this issue. This bill, which makes Friday a full - time workday. What's more, it helps us communicate, we talk to the people's deputies, it remakes this, you know, hour of communication for three hours. We often heard coalition representatives say, "We want to work." Nothing prevents the bill from being submitted to the hall on the following Monday. We'll change the Rules, we'll be able to work, we'll stop telling people what we want, but we don't have a full day. And maybe that'll help solve that. One more question. For more than two years now, the Committees of the Supreme Council have been in possession of my bill, which deals with the issue of buttoning. But it's not being considered. Probably because this coalition is comfortable with the buttons still working in the session room. That's probably why the bill is still there, and the talk about how to solve the problem of buttoning is still going on. I want the Ukrainians to understand that if someone wanted to solve the issue of buttoning in this room, then this bill would be adopted and the buttoning would be severely punished. But we have what we have. There are almost no deputies in the hall on Friday. There are some factions and groups. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes. But what do we see? Push the button. Pushing and buttoning until then until they adopt a law that will severely punish all those who work as nonpersonal workers. He doesn't vote personally. So I want to go to the Ukrainians. When you go to the elections, remember who promised you and who did. What is written in the Coalition Agreement and what is done there. Remember that. And don't get carried away. Alone. Keep in mind and make conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u93	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexander Kirsh.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I am officially asking that an official account be made of the fact that a pensioner in Ukraine, as the Prime Minister has said, has been living in Ukraine for 18 years. This figure raises some doubts. So I'm asking you to make an official reckoning. Second, about the unintentional thing that's happened, the rape of accounting in Ukraine. If, when the Yandex was banned, the Ones, the Vkontakte, all that sort of thing, it's technically impossible to do. But when "1S" and "1S Multimedia Ukraine", "The Galaxy Center", "Parus", "Eurosoftprom", "ABI Ukraine," and so on, it's already technically dangerous. Because if a report is given and tax is not accepted, it will be very difficult to prove its numbers if these figures are given using the wrong system. Therefore, there is security that all businesses will report their accounting and tax liabilities outside the law. Of course, you can use programs that have already been paid for. But what are they worth when things change and there is no renewal or regular support? It must be admitted that there are no Ukrainian analogys. Just like there's no Ukrainian "Windows," there's no Ukrainian program called "The Arrow" or "The Weekend." Similarly, there are no analogs that could be compared to 1C. If you keep an accounting account so that the original documents are recognized by the taxpayers? Not only does the state lose the funds that will be spent on blocking. It loses more than just IT payers. She loses those accountants who pay taxes, taxes, and now they don't know how to count them. I suggest that, as long as there are no Ukrainian analogs, until they are developed, we postpone the introduction of these sanctions on accounting programs. Because that means so far that it's not legally possible to keep an account in the country. By the way, let's take a look at those left behind. "Excel," well, it's just an electronic counter. You can't even compare it to 1C. By the way, it's also non-Ukrainian. There are some other companies left. But one of them is Russian, but he works through Cyprus. It's Russian anyway. Others simply made a mistake, perhaps making an unwitting mistake in the name, missed one letter, thus banning such a firm from being present at all, and then fictitiousness, also raising doubts about information security if the entire border is protected, but one metre of state border is still free because it was sold. Then why did they do it in general, and that means that the more time it takes for these sanctions to be imposed on accounting programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u95	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy John Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u96	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Of course, all the media today, we're all discussing pension reform. Today we have heard the government's confidence that the October 1st pensions will be raised. I'd like to go to my voters today, because as a senior, I have to go out with voters every time and retirees ask the same question. They say why people who haven't worked and received a day get a thousand to a thousand 200 pensions and those who are 30 to 40 years of age also get a pension for these 100 dollars more, or 200 dollars more -- that's not justice. And I'm counting on the right government to do that there's some kind of internship of these 25 years where we have to retire at the right time and in 25 years we can earn it. There's this simple arithmetic, 25 years plus 18 is going to be 43 years. And let's say that someone who works today, who's going to work, or who's going to earn a pension, that she's going to have another 4-5 years at the Institute, and that's going to be 43, let's say 48 years, you can earn a pension by 60 years, and that's going to be fair here. I understand perfectly, I'd like to do that myself, we're hearing from the 5,000 minimum wage coming up, I'd like to make it 10 today, I'll even say 10 from this rostrum, let's do 10! But we don't know what's behind it, we don't know what's behind it. And you know, if today. To raise 5,000 minimum wages today, I'm going to say that hundreds of businesses would be closed down here right now. Let's take a little mall. And in order for an entrepreneur to have some small profit, he has profit in these small points of trade 2, 3, 4 thousand a month and is obliged to pay 3,200 minimum wages. And if he does today, he gets this profit of 3,200 and he pays his salary, what does he work for? We're gonna have to close up. Yeah, really, we have to give jobs, we have to raise minimum wages, but at the same time, we have to think in terms of opening up these businesses, not closing them. So here, I think you should do everything in this direction. Let's move on. Now we're going to the round table about the hospital districts. In my district. I'd like to say that there's an area like Chargorod, a region like Tulchin, where, in fact, the second level should be the hospital center in that place. But at the same time, I think we should listen here before this reform. And this is the number one issue here that we need to study health care, to learn the correctness of health reform. Because we see beautiful that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u97	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Gennady Kryvoša.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u98	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainians, good day, distinguished colleagues, presiding. Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. I would like to address the Prime Minister in my address and focus on some of the problems that today concern the people of the Kyiv region, such as Boguslawsky, Kaharlicsky, Mironovsky and Rokitnian regions. In principle, everyone already knows that Krivoshia is not a majority MP, I'm quite actively trying to work within my jurisdiction and capabilities in this district, because Mr. Oneshchenko's national deputy is not in Ukraine today and there is no way to influence any of the events that apply to the district in which he was elected. So I would like to focus the Prime Minister's attention primarily on the problems that concern the entire district today. Well, first of all, in the Kyiv region today, and not just in the district, but in general, there is a problem of creating and uniting territorial communities. The Kyiv district administration, the district council, district administrations in all kinds of ways today and methods, can safely say, are trying to block the formation of a union of territorial communities, particularly in the case of martial arts. One of the bohemian communities that in no way can unite and I no longer speak of two Boguslav communities, a community in the Boguslav region. So I would like to refer again to the Prime Minister, to whom I sent the appropriate addresses, to focus on this, to hold the appropriate meetings, to which I spoke a month ago, to the head of the district administration, I was not invited as a national deputy, nothing was done. And this, I think, is unacceptable, because today appropriate rural councils and residents and territorial communities are ready to unite and continue to develop their villages and territories. At the same time, I wanted to point out that over the last two years, this district has not actually received any copy of the bill about my references to road repairs, bridge repairs, individual schools, gardens. I realize that I'm not, again, a major MP and I can't fully influence the situation in the district that I am, but I'd like to ask the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister's attention should be drawn to how funds are allocated in the Kyiv region, for example under the DFRR? Or how the funds are allocated from the Ministry of Health because, for example, from September to May. From September 2016 to May of this year, I sent more than 20 appeals to the Ministry of Health, of which 10 percent were actually considered literally, there. Humans cannot be left unattended and without the support of authority. At the same time, I would like to focus the attention of every citizen of the Kyiv region, particularly the district, that I will continue to work and defend the interests of ordinary Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u99	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the Roman Roman Romanyuk People's Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u100	Honorary colleagues, a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the Code of Civil Procedure, the Code of Administrative Judiciality and other legislative acts has been introduced to Parliament. This bill has been drafted by the Council on Judicial Reform, and the President of Ukraine has been identified as urgent. We recently accepted the changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, changed the basic positions on the judiciary in Ukraine, defined a new system of courts. There is now an unprecedented process for our nation to form a quality new Supreme Court. This process is carefully followed by both the professional legal community and the entire civil society. I am confident that among the candidates there are deserving people, professionals who are worthy of their responsibilities, who will protect the values of law and democracy. However, the updated judicial system will not work until changes to procedural legislation have been made. So this is also the condition for the new Supreme Court to begin its work. Every citizen sees the trial with his own eyes while he is in court. Therefore, a special approach is needed to the legal rules governing the proceedings. Each changed standard is felt by people. Updated codes must first and foremost respond to our realities and protect human rights and interests at the right level. The bill is aimed at improving judicial procedures and clearly distinguishing jurisdiction between general commercial and administrative courts. The project is really important, so I want to urge all my colleagues to pay special attention to the bill. I understand that there will be a point to the draft law, but we need to act, and we need to make some suggestions. So I propose that we start working on this document today and take a responsible approach to its consideration in the session room. A fair court is needed by everyone in Ukraine, so let us work together to ensure that our country has a strong, professional and effective judicial system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u101	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy of Semimenho, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, honourable Vice-Speaker, distinguished Ukrainians, undoubtedly the most important reform that has long been undertaken today is the pension. Why is it the most important, because it applies not only to pensioners – it applies to all generations without exception. Today, the situation is close to disaster. On the one hand, people get tiny pensions, and those MPs who meet people know that the first thing people ask me is, "How do you tell me, son, how do I survive a thousand hundred bucks?" People can't even buy drugs for this tiny pension. It's from one. And on the other hand, we have a record deficit of the Pension Fund: about 142 billion dollars. In any developed, modern world economy, our own pension fund is the first investor of our own economy, and today we have the biggest black hole. We heard a presentation today from the Prime Minister of Pension Reform. And, on the one hand, it's absolutely fair that the government is finally ready to do its homework -- and cancel the shameful, discriminatory 15 percent tax on working pensioners. But, the defense of God, it depends on the adoption of pension reform, because it was promised by the previous government, and this government simply has to live up to its promise. It's a good thing that people are finally in the fall, not much, but they're already going to retire. Because what's happening now, today, is not enough for humans even to the minimum. Today, however, what the Prime Minister said today, namely the increase in insurance, is nothing more than a direct increase in retirement age. This cannot be allowed under any circumstances. I'm talking to all my colleagues, to all the factions: we have to do everything we can to get the government to find the money in such a way that in no way, in particular, the hidden, raise people's retirement age. Because today, according to statistics, men, for example, do not live to that age. So it's not acceptable under any circumstances. Any pension reform, in our view, should begin with an audit, a transparent public audit of the Pension Fund. Today, Ukrainian taxpayers spend 3 billion dollars to administer the Pension Fund. To compare: the central apparatus of the Ministry of Internal Affairs -- we're spending 1 billion 200 with you. I am convinced that this figure can be reduced significantly. Next. We finally have to create a single public transparent register of all recipients of all social benefits, first and foremost pensions. This will enable us to ensure transparency, enable us to overcome pension tourism, overcome the issue of payment to dead souls. And most importantly, what should be at the end of the pension reform. Retirement reform should ensure transparency for all to see who, how, how, and how it is paid. The second is justice to make as much as you earn, how you worked your life, how much you got. And the most important thing in the end is dignity. To be honest, without the introduction of a second level of accumulation, there will be no decent retirement, and that needs to be done honestly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u103	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u104	Good afternoon! Dear Ukrainian people! Dear National Deputies! If the authorities continue with today's economic policy, which promises Ukraine an economic growth of one or two percent a year, that means that we will catch up with our 2013 at best in the 21st year, our 91st year will catch up in 2030. And if Poland and Turkey stop in their development, we'll catch up with them in about 2070. Think about it, and the economic policy that the government is running today, it preserves poverty, it makes Ukraine weak, and it weakens trust and respect for Ukraine on the outside. The Radical Party faction, together with its counterparts, is proposing a radical change in the country's socio-economic course. We and the country's best economists have worked out an anti-crisis economic plan that provides for absolutely specific priorities, steps and assessments of the effects that these effects will have on the country. Dear colleagues, this anti-crisis plan is registered in Parliament as a decree to change national economic policy and it is supported by all factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament, except for Fatherland and the Environment. We invite you to unite around supporting this plan in order to actually increase the welfare of Ukrainians, in order to carry out real, not nominal, pension reform and to increase the standard of living and those who work and those who are retired. The government is now proposing a pension reform, but the essence of it is to limit pensioners' rights, because the number of people who are going to retire is essentially going to be cut short, because the time that people live in Ukraine is extremely short. On average, men live for 66 years. What kind of pension reform can be referred to in the format proposed by the government? We offer real steps: clear sector reforms to support Ukrainian production. You know that last summer you and I supported a bill initiated by the Radical Party on the elimination of the metal-trading deficit in Ukraine. This law works, it has already added more money to the budget than a billion dollars, it has saved more than 20,000 jobs. We have to continue it. This initiative was supported by the Professional Committee on Propolitics and Entrepreneurship. You and I in this room have supported a 10-year ban on the export of roundwood from Ukraine. This law has already given Ukraine 20 percent of additional revenue, bringing hundreds of millions of additional investments, thousands of jobs. This should continue, not be sold for foreign loans, as the government suggests. So we need to continue with Ukrainian industrial and economic policy and build on it the welfare of citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u105	I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Victor Vuka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u106	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Ladies and gentlemen, last week at his first year of press conference, President Poroshenko came to an absurd conclusion in an attempt to justify the so-called Minsk Accords. Citing Putin’s signature under the contracts, Prašenko said lightly that it allowed Putin and Russia to be held accountable, as if the Minsk Accords allowed them to go to trial and bring the criminal, Putin, to trial. President Poroshenko’s false claim led both citizens of Ukraine and journalists into deception. Sadly, they were surprised by the country’s head of state’s open legal ignorance. The Radical Party has already repeatedly pointed out the legal futility of the absence of the legal force of the Minsk Treaties, both within the framework of international law and in accordance with the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine. From a legal point of view, the Minsk Accords are only the personal political arrangements of President Prashenko and his international partners: the Chancellor of Germany, the President of France and the President of Russia, who do not impose any legal and international legal obligations on any party. So the failure to execute the Minsk Accords has no legal effect, and the chances of condemning them to Putin are zero. However, this does not mean that Putin and Russia’s leadership will not be legally responsible for Russia’s armed aggression against Ukraine and its crimes and will not be condemned in court. As early as 2015, the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported Oleg Láska's initiatives to recognize Russia as an aggressor state and to recognize the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court in The Hague on crimes against humanity and war crimes committed by senior officials of Russia and leaders of DNR and LNR terrorist organizations. The proper conduct is revealed in the International Criminal Court and requires adequate evidence from the Ukrainian Attorney General’s Office and the authorities. Russia's criminal actions from Ukraine to Syria, from the annexation of Crimea and the war in Donbas to the bombing of Syrian Aleppo, from the defeat of Malaysian Boeing to the use of chemical weapons by the Putinian lieutenant Assad, are increasingly shaping the image of Putin as an international war criminal who is on trial in the Hague Court of Justice. At the same time, to win the good over evil, a broad antiputinian coalition is needed to defend the entire democratic world, just as the Anti - Hitler coalition was created. The Radical Party of Oleg Ljaška is convinced that with the joint efforts of the Ukrainians and the free world, evil will eventually not only be stopped but also, indeed, condemned and punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u107	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u108	Good afternoon, Ukrainian people, good afternoon, presiding lady, and good afternoon, those who have stayed at the end of the day. The topic that I want to raise in this presentation is that of our government, the Cabinet of Ministers of our National Economic Interest, to the enemy-occupier. First of all, it's "Ukrishimtransamaku." And Janukovic Bondik's bookie actually gave it to one of the pro-Russian banks, and he set up this company under Alpha Bank. After Bondik's escape, he was taken over by the Russian Polozos, who actually paid off the loan on time in the company before Alpha Bank and washed out all the negotiable assets of the company. The next stage, the destruction of the U.K.I., this Ukkrimtrasamak, was that the court was lost, the court was that Ukraine unilaterally raised the tariff. The fare at which the company went to zero is, in fact, the company started to work at minus. The company is currently operating on a financial plan that it has submitted by the end of the year, minus 800 million dollars. Following what Mr. Polozov of Russia is doing, this is to prevent the company from going out, that is, not fulfilling its contractual obligations. And in 14 days that don't pop up the business, the company goes into debt again, but they happen again. low price for a walk. It's a fast business. debt to Russian companies is growing. And our noble Cabinet of Ministers is not a couple of mouths, they're deeply concerned and they lose that the firm that the Cabinet of Ministers is losing all the courts in front of Russian companies. You can see how the drain is coming, and the pipe is pouring out, and the next pipe is the Odessa porter, which is actually dependent on this pipe. We're actually giving up our chemical industry, our nitrogen. But we see the Cabinet of Ministers again on May 18.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u109	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Anna Romanov. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Borislav Bereza gave the floor. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! Borislav Berezi was given the word Sverk, and he passed on his word to Anna Romanov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u110	Dear colleagues! As long as we actually had an hour of performances, in Ukraine nearly 100 Ukrainians died, that is what sociologists call it. We have a terrible population in the country, and on average, every hour, unfortunately, we lose so many of the lives of our Ukrainians. The depopulation crisis in Ukraine has now reached its climax. Ukraine is a disgraceful second place in the world in terms of mortality, and we compare it to South Africa as well as a country like Lesotho. In addition, the life expectancy of the population for today also decreases by one year. Ukrainian men are now 64 years old and Ukrainian women are 75 years old. That's why the information that the Ukrainian retired for 18 years, which the Prime Minister has declared today, is absolutely not true. In fact, our Ukrainian pensioners live on a pension for no more than 8 years. If you believe the UN forecast, in 30 years the population of Ukraine will be only 30 million. But it should be remembered that the UN has been repulsed by official statistics that no one knows. The population census was no longer carried out for 16 years. And if you even look at statistics right now, there are 42 million Ukrainians. Ukrainian scientists have counted how many Ukrainians are really now? They used a variety of methodologies and, unfortunately, came to a very terrible conclusion. There are no more than 35 million of us now! And that means that among the actions that the government needs to take now, basically, we need to do everything we can to stop the depopulation crisis, the demographic crisis. Equally bad is the situation of young, talented people who go abroad to earn money. In recent years 7 million young, hardworking, talented, intelligent Ukrainians have gone out to develop the economy of other nations. Toothless, of course, is good. But let's not forget that without creating a favourable tax climate, without creating jobs in Ukraine, tourists will massively leave our country and seek fate in other developed countries. Therefore, "The Self-Help Union" requires that the population census be conducted immediately next year. Develop a series of measures that will help to overcome population depopulation and include promoting fertility, increasing employment and halting mass emigration. Implementation of tax reform is real, which will contribute to the development of small and medium-sized businesses, not.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u111	Thank you very much. Welcome to the speech of the national deputy Igor Popov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u112	Igor Popov, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Yesterday, in the Supreme Council, each MP received a report from the Court of Auditors on the implementation of the 2016 State Budget. I want to quote just one digit, and I'm sure everyone's familiar with this report. Confiscated damages and expenses derived from the confiscation of property seized by the court for committing corruption and corruption resulted in a total of 200,000 dollars during the past year. This is a diagnosis for all our fighters with corruption. Ukrainian taxpayers have spent about 2 billion dollars on all anti-corruption bodies of new, old anti-corruption units, and they have all returned 200,000 dollars to the government budget together. This is one of the main indicators of how they work. The second indicator is closed corruption flows. And another indicator is the verdicts of top-corruptioners who have gained legal power. That's why they have to fight, not for rumors in Facebook, it seems that it's the barking that the old and the new anti-corruption bodies are often working. For three years now, as power in Ukraine has changed, a dedicated anticorruption prosecutor and NABU should be fully operational. The year already has a new Attorney General elected in this room, although our faction has not supported his candidacy. In all this time, no sentence has been given to the civil servant of category "A", the top corruptionist of the old power, from the new authority -- we have not seen a single sentence. The Radical Party faction had already gone to the Specialised Anticorruption Prosecutor’s Office and demanded that the fight against corruption be intensified. Unfortunately, only by such radical methods can we force them to work. The next week in this rostrum, we're expecting the Attorney General and we're going to ask him all the awkward questions about why he's not working in his post. Are there busy law enforcement officers who fight corruption rather than carry out their direct functions? Political persecution of opposition. A number of my colleagues, members of the Radical Party, are running errands, they're coming in for a search, they're looking for documents. For what? For our position, for our criticism of power, for our position on pension reform, land reform. We see how NAZK works: this cat doesn't catch mice and won't catch them. Why can't we reform it? Two bills are registered, let's put them in the agenda, create a working group, work one, and reload the NAZC, which is already scheduled to test 100,000 declarations, check 100 only opponents of power, and can't even complete this test. Let's step up parliamentary control over the work of anti-corruption fighters, because otherwise there won't be much left, and we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u113	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the national deputy Yegor Soboljev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u114	On this sheet, the Attorney General is not trusted. He was assigned a year ago, and this year Victor Janukovich and Andry Kluev are no longer wanted by Interpol, because the Attorney General did not give evidence of their responsibility for the crimes they committed. Dozens of Berkuts and others who were involved in the shooting in Eromaydan fled to Russia, left the court and fled peacefully, and the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which gave Yanukovich dictatorial powers, continued to work as the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and no one was suspected, the man who devised how to make Yanukovich a dictator remains the Head of the Constitutional Court. When the President, when other top-owners of states fail to perform their duties or abuse these duties, the task of Parliament of each state is to take sides and do what people expect of them. I am grateful to all the national deputies who have already signed their signatures for the prosecutor’s mistrust. The Constitution gives us the right to do so when the Attorney General does not perform his duties when he does not carry out the tasks that society has set for him. I want to pay attention to those colleagues who think that party discipline or fear of the Attorney General can stop them. In fact, all of us have been chosen here by people, and each of us here is no less than a representative of people. Do not be afraid, do what you have to do according to your heart, according to your conscience, for what you are expected by society. Look at the example of the United States, the U.S. Congress, the United States Department of Justice, who, in a very civilized way, implement the Constitution of their State and help their President not make mistakes. From this day forward, I begin to publish the names of all the national deputies who have expressed their mistrust to the Attorney General and all those who refuse to do so. A general prosecutor who does not do his job must be released from his job.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u115	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the national deputy Leonid Hamtza, Stasuk handed it over.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u116	Thank you. Leonid Jemetz, the People's Front faction, the city of Kiev Majority District 221, is Pechersky, this is the half of Solomon's district, this is part of the Shevchenkov district. Dear friends of mine, dear colleagues, 17-20 years ago Kiev was called the green capital of Europe, and this was indeed the case: green parks, squares, you remember these magnificent chestnuts that were blooming in Krestatika and visiting our beloved city. Remember how clean beaches were encouraged to come not only from distant areas of our city but also from other cities and, sometimes, even from other lands. We remember how pleasant it was to live in this green city, how pleasant it was to breathe, and how pleasant it was to walk with the children. Unfortunately, today we have the word "parks," the word "squares" is associated with other words, such as the words "made," such as the words "forgotten," such as the words "lost." Sadly, this is the activity of today’s city authorities. And this address that the electorate came to me personally, is just one of many examples, I don't even say, of idleness, perhaps, of the criminal activity of individual representatives of Kiev City authorities that allow us to destroy our green city in this way. Today we are talking about the center, the center itself, the street of town, where both our Chinese and the guests of our capital can be found. So at 4/6 instead of a green square, we plan to build another building. So not only do we have a building up, it's the height that we're supposed to do in Kiev today, but I'm going to remind you that at this address, we have the central node of two subway stations: Hristack and Majdan Independence. And to anyone, not even a specialist, I'm already talking about the expert conclusions that are in the dozens on this issue that show that it's going to be a disaster, that it's going to be a danger to any person who's going to try to use the subway station, and also to all of Pecherska, which is next to this potential barrier. I was approached by citizens with a very simple question to ask of the Kiev City Council and they sent the same to the Kiev City Council for a task, to make changes to the zone based on the 1970 decision, and to determine that there might be only a restoration of the green zone. It is a shame, shame for the city of Kiev, that the 1970 decision of the City Council, 1970 should be an example for today's Kiev City Council – it is a shame. And I'll remind you, if by national MPs,
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u117	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u118	Levchenko, Freedom, 223 district, Shevchenkovsky district of Kyiv. Last week, Ukrainian media came up with scandalous facts about a fake right-hand diploma by Klitschka, Vladimir Bondarenko. I thank the scheme journalists who did a very detailed investigation and showed the society that runs the city of Kiev today. And I emphasize to those who say, "Well, not all diplomas. Diplomas don't matter." It was a false diploma, a false diploma, and journalists who clearly proved that he was faking it. It's been a week since then, but the mayor of the capital still pretends he doesn't know anything about it, he doesn't comment. Well, it's kind of like an ostrich position that he often has. For example, when he spent a year telling me that there were hydro-insulating works going on at the Heroov Dnipra subway station when there were two floors of the TRC that were illegal, which is what the community was talking about. You know, I learned about Bondarenko's fake diploma early in the spring. And then I called on the law enforcement authorities not to be loud, and I drew their attention to this. And surprisingly, this time criminal conduct was discovered, obviously because the evidence was 100 percent and undisputed. But later I was informed that Klitschko had personally tried to confuse the matter with law enforcement officials so that they would not violate Bondarenko’s case. And the question was: Why? Does he simply cover up his friend, his former assistant, or in some deeper matter? And as it turns out, when they started digging and digging, it turns out, Klitschko unlawfully appointed his assistant as a national deputy to the post of deputy head of the Kiev City Administration. On August 13, 2014, he appoints him to the post, although the KMDA Rules state that KMDA's deputy should agree with the President's Administration and the Cabinet. He doesn't, knowing that. Well, I'm sure he'll find out that he's got a fake diploma. He appoints him illegally. A week later, he changes the Rules of the Kiev City State Administration and cancels the post of deputy head of the KMDA’s business manager and makes it simply the governing business of the KMDA. He evidently knew well that his deputy Bondarenko had a false diploma. By the way, he illegally accepted him as an assistant to the Supreme Council, because then the State Service Act prohibited him from doing so without higher education, and he had no even fictitious higher education at that time, apparently he was covering up his own supplies in the city council of Kiev. And that is why it is unquestionably evidence of his criminal activity. And today I appeal to the law enforcement authorities to open a case not just against Deputy Klick but against Klick directly, and on this basis, by way of the judgment of Klick the bandit, the forger, a friend of the persecutors from the performing duties of the Kiev City Head, he has no right to hold this office.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u119	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u120	Dear Ukrainian people! Ukrainian Parliament! I would like to raise the issue of information security, which is now a matter of national security, which currently threatens Ukraine’s national interests. At a time when the President orders the ban on Russian Socrates "The Educators" WContacte in the country continues to work freely on the Kremlin's Rupe, which directly receives instructions from the Kremlin, and which works under these instructions. It's about the Inter Channel, which is controlled by a group of Firtash-Leučkina, which is ploughing the Kremlin-occupational block from which Boyko doesn't come down, which would have been held accountable for a long time. Why is this happening? This is because of the conspiracies of the former regions, namely the group of Firthash, Ljovczyn, the Battle of Power, which does not want to hold them accountable. The Radical Party faction draws the attention of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General's Office, one more time that the so-called action with the so-called Immortal Regiment was organized directly from the Kremlin, organized by the Inter and the producer of this channel, Mrs. Free for this in Moscow, has already received an apartment. They're preparing to flee Ukraine, but are our authorities ready to take the hole and impact on the Ukrainian brains, take and nationalize the Inter Channel? So the following week, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, which I have the honour to represent in Parliament, initiates and refers to all the colleagues of the National Deputies for the creation of the Temporary Investigation Commission, which will examine the financial flows, including the Kremlin, through which the group of Ljovcín, Firthash, the Fighter is funded by the Kremlin, as they receive money from the Kremlin, and how they wash the brains of the Ukrainians. And I'm finally addressing all my fellow national deputies, those who call themselves patriots and even nationalists. Your appearance on these television channels shows that you are also involved in a conspiracy with Lewtsken and Firthash. And then the votes that have been broken down against Yanukovich's followers explain to everyone: Be careful, don't wash yourself. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u121	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Leschchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u122	I understand that we have all the oligarchs of two varieties. So you can't go to some of them, you can't sit on the canals for hours, you can talk about what a reformer and what a rescue of Ukraine is, you can talk about the party of the greatest radicalists. But that's not the question. I want to go back to my previous speech that I've been interrupted, that the Supreme Council doesn't have this application for Boyko. The Supreme Council was to receive this from Attorney General Shokin two years ago. Shockin blocked it, Lucenko keeps blocking it. I discovered it in the slums of the Attorney General's Office. And that's the kind of supply that's related to the compressed gas. When Yuri Boyko was Minister of Energy in the government of Yanukovich-Azarov, he entered the criminal organization Kurchenk, which was to sell it to commercial consumers, as determined by the investigators of this project, to the criminal organization Kurchenk, who sold it to commercial consumers, which caused enormous losses to the Ukrainian state. And I had this document that everybody is trying to forget that it once existed in the Henprosecutor's Office, sent to Lucenka, the first was the answer that I'm not my house, the next answer was from Military Prosecutor Mathios, who turns out to be Boyko only a witness in this case. Very quickly he was reclassified and made there, you know, not a person who passed by and sometimes knew nothing or saw what corruption was done in the energy sector by the minister he was in Janukovic's time. Of course, fighting corruption is much more difficult and more difficult because it is necessary to break away from the trough that Ukrainian corruption has been on for generations. And it's much easier to deal with what's been going on lately, with simple osmosis, when they're trying to shift the focus of social attention from fighting corruption to finding internal enemies. And what happened this week is I think it's the path to authoritarianism. You can't censor, you can't do what authoritarian regimes do: North Korea, China, Russia, African despots -- you can't block social networks, and you can't block computer programs that are produced by Ukrainian aitists, like it's fighting Russian propaganda. I fully support the statement of the Internet Association of Ukraine, because the real goals of the Internet of Censorship are the creation of political censorship. They started with contacts, they started with an accounting program called "1C," they're going to block Ukrainian websites, they're going to block Ukrainian social networks, Ukrainian users, so that information about what's the real face of this power doesn't get to people, so people don't get mobilized for protests, and that corrupt people stay in power. And I fully agree with Alexander Olshanski, who is one of the parents of the Ukrainian Internet, that this is all done with one goal then to switch to internal resources. I had a representative from 1C Vadim Mazur at my reception yesterday and he said that they were placed on this sanctions list completely illegal, they're Ukrainian software manufacturers. Here's all the evidence that can prove it. They have all the permits. But they were included in the sanctions list to clear the software market. All Ukrainian accountants.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u123	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Dmitry Linko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u124	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. Today’s actions of power throughout Ukraine have led to one thing. What we're about to do is, don't give it to me, God, we'll see the rematch of the Yanukovich gang and the Putin rematch that brought Putin here. But in some cities this is already happening. I want to tell you about the hometown of Kropivnitsky, where a thief’s block, along with the local oligarchate, took power in the city. And since February, the country's session has been blocked and not held because the local chief, Andri Rajkovic's head, and the secretary who came together illegally to power (one because of the court's decision, the other because of the conspiracies with the former regions), and today they are dealing solely with their own problems, solely with land issues, by the derebent of the city's lands, not with the issues that concern the communities. The last session of this week ended in a fight because neither our deputies nor the representatives of the community have spoken. And it's been going on and on. Yes, in particular, the price questions for transport routes in the city that were raised a few months ago, the Radical Party sought to lower prices. But local authorities do not even make decisions about the land. Similarly, changes to the regulations were made to previous sessions, which were effectively forbidden to local deputies to make requests and petitions. All of this is true of only one thing. If we let a gang of former opposition block locals come to power, we'll see that they'll continue to derail, what they've done before! This is happening today in the town of Kropiwnitski. Our numerous appeals to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and BSS, in particular the illegal holding of a session in May, without a quorum, without a sufficient number of deputies, have been ruled out, the BSS, the Public Prosecutor's Office and all law enforcement agencies have been ignored. So I appeal to the law enforcement agencies to stop this lawlessness in the city! Finally, it is time to start solving community issues that have accumulated in six months that the authorities simply ignore and do not hear! Similarly, our initiative, the Radical Party, on free medical drugs is not actually working in the city today, and the city authorities are not responding in any way to the fact that citizens cannot get their free medicine. That's why we demand that the local authorities stop conspiring with the regionals and the Yanukovich gang, so that the law enforcement agencies react to the criminal activity of the city's head and its secretary, Tabalova, the carcass that was expelled from this hall that was then sold to the Yanukovich gang and sold today. And I think all citizens of Kropivinski and all of Ukraine will draw conclusions and never support more of the representatives that are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u125	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Golovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u126	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Dear colleagues, distinguished viewers, today we have heard a statement from the Prime Minister that they see a pension reform being carried out. And the main slogan of this statement is an increase in the insurance system rather than an increase in pensions and, of course, the restoration of justice. How and how does Freedom see, how would we propose a fair reform? To do this, it really takes the money of the Ukrainian state. And the first thing we have to do to get the money is to get the economy out of the shadows. More than 50 percent of the Ukrainian economy is in the shadows, as the minister of finance and government officials say, 1 trillion dollars. To do that, we've proposed a number of bills and key ones, which are, of course, laws to fight offshors, to stop the export of capital abroad and so on. We see that our state today is unable to develop and raise our economy because it is burdened with loans because the government and the National Bank are constantly acquiring loans. So Freedom has proposed a mechanism to ban the acquisition of new loans, new loans for government and government, but only to give consent. Only parliament has the right to increase the government debt, which today is astronomically more than 90 percent according to GDP, for every Ukrainian it is over 65,000 dollars. Of course, we offer other ways to get our economy out of the shadows. It's primarily about creating jobs so that Ukrainians and young people don't leave and go to work, and there's only one pensioner left, and, of course, no economy can handle that kind of pressure, but create jobs, and we need to upgrade the basic funds of businesses. So we've registered bills that propose to cancel customs and VAT for import for a few years of equipment that would create jobs, equipment that would certainly work for our economy and for our young people. Of course, we realize that in these circumstances it is very difficult for our economy to work because oligarchs and total corruption. Unfortunately, this Parliament has once again discredited itself when it passed the law, the new Power Market Act, together with Oboblok and the coalition voted the law for Ahemtov, which allows cheap Ukrainian electricity, nuclear power to export abroad and make large capitals, and expensive electricity, thermal power that will go to Ukrainians today at a cost. Of course, we're going to become uncompetitive, we're going to be on the sidelines of the world economy, and Ukraine is going to be turned into a raw income one more time. This is the main task of today's authorities, the oligarchs, who don't think about how to develop our economy, create jobs, and turn Ukraine into a raw commodity. So Freedom requires the abolition of this criminal Power Market Act and the adoption of our initiatives to create jobs, borrow small and medium-sized businesses and develop the Ukrainian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u127	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Bogdan-Juriy Suhevich. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes so that the MPs can. They had a chance to come forward. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u128	Ukrainian people! They remember all the May 9, this year, they remember all the Sabbaths that appeared on our streets, especially the memorable event in Dniper. But who was very often not the organizer but stood and took part in these campaigns? The so - called veterans, so - called because there is a whole range of purely virtual veteran organizations, in which there are no veterans or wargoers, are actually 50 - year - olds, 60 - year - olds, who call themselves the veterans of the Great National, who go with the George Tapes. But you know that these organizations, in the vast majority, are funded from the budget. They provide money for Ukrainian taxpayers to walk the streets here and destroy a nation that feeds them practically. And don't be surprised when there's no partisan in this institution where I'm speaking right now, there's a commission for the guerrillas of the Great Homeland War, where there's no partisan, and there's no Great National Laws under the decommunization laws. It was founded back in the days when the Communist Supreme Council was down there, and it exists today, and it's funded from the budget, by the way, from the budget of the Supreme Council, just so you know. And there are no partisans, there is no Great National and, contrary to the Constitution, contrary to the regulations under which such a commission is not foreseen, there is only a commission for privatization, and there is a temporary commission for inquiry, which is formed by Parliament. But it was created even then and exists today, although it is not provided for by regulations, and it is contrary to the law, the decommunization law. And there was, I was making a personal appeal and a draft resolution on the liquidation of this commission, which is financed by the Supreme Council's money, but it's not being considered, it's included, it's 35th, 40th, and it's never going to go through, it's still there, we're still funding. And what we're surprised at, and we're talking about what the law does, what the Constitution does, what the Rules do. So here's the result of this, you can actually see how this is happening. May I help you?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u129	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u130	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people! Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw the attention of Parliament, the Prime Minister, who has not been brought to the attention, the Head of the Supreme Council, the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, to the painful problem that concerns my native district of 124 – Sokalščina and Red Horvograd – is a so-called tericon that all national MPs probably know. The government of Yatsenuk, which now shuts down the new government, and now the visa there. I was moved to call on our officials' conscience, now the heads of Mr. Sinyutka's district government, because, finally, in two years, they found, of course, extreme. 14 million were allocated last year. 14 million from the government budget was allocated this year. Imagine: July – six months will soon be – so far these 14 million are still uninhabited. The study of the sanepidemstation that I have received at my parliamentary address shows that long ago this region, where the terricon burns for two years and poisons people, that is 100,000 people, continues to cause enormous damage, especially to our Ukrainian children. Water tests indicate that cadmium, lead, and sulphur levels are five times exceeded. It's water that people who live there consume. Air: sulphur oxides, phosphorus, three times exceeded. And this is a study that's done almost a hundred studies in 2017. What else would it take for Mr. Syntyche to finally absorb the funds already available from the state budget? How many people in Western Ukraine can be poisoned because of the inaction of officials. I'm going to ask you to officially consider my request to the Attorney General's Office, maybe she'll turn up a criminal case against those officials who are already responsible for the acquisition. For non-implementation, inaction of state funds. So I sincerely believe, Mrs. Oksano, that our native Red and Sokalishka, with your help, will be rid of this ecological disaster in the form of a burning terricon. Besides, you know what we have and six more mines. So it turns out that a month ago, on mine number two, a terricone caught fire near the mine, and once again, the terricones were not doing anything, the terricones were burning, and people were poisoning. Vlado! Take care of the Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u131	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Bresück. Oleg Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u132	Your Majesty, the presiding lady! Dear colleagues! Last week was not easy and not easy. But it's both positive and negative in Parliament. In fact, as a man, as a father, and as a deputy, I don't understand the upheavals of some of his representatives' societies over the great damage to the Ukrainian economy and to Ukrainian people to the closure of social networking. During the war, having an instrument in the heart of the Ukrainian nation, state and society, not only of political, ideological influence, but an instrument of immoral influence on the nation, is a crime. These contacts are young. Why are they so popular among young people? No, I don't. without absolutely controlling access to all the immoral sites in the world, is that okay? Parents who fail to understand this do not understand why children are there. Therefore, the honorable colleagues, laughing at this means helping the enemy influence our people. No doubt who's talking about what this is, it turns out, a violation of freedom of speech, we have great opportunities to express our words: the Ukrainian Truth website. After all, modern Western, civilizational tools Twitter, Facebook, and others. Please use it. And the enemy must be at home. Second thing. But there were two huge problems: voting yesterday in the Supreme Council, and, more faithfully, non-voting, in favour of the Law on Sanctions against Officials of Yanukovic. They didn't make it. Why? Because this institutional state has demonstrated its inability to fight the oligarhat, since the institutional state today is governed by the oligarhat. And an even bigger problem. Yesterday, the Supreme Council failed to vote in favour of the inclusion of medical laws in the order of the day. In a city with 90,000 inhabitants, 34 people of working age died last year from a myocardial infarction. Today’s statement on pension reform and the middle age shows that we do not have to care so much about pension reform, but we need to make sure that people live longer. And to do that, it takes medicine. Therefore, by covering up good but late decisions on social networking, important decisions were not voted on, depending on the safety, quality, and well - being of the Ukrainian citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u133	Thank you. Welcome to Michael Bondar's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as a national deputy in the district, I am very often approached by those involved in the fighting to pay off the unjust amount of money assistance by May 5. Part five of article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection states that by 5 May each year, participants in hostilities are paid a lump sum of five minimum pensions per year. In May 2016, however, only 920 dollars were paid to many community administrations and social workers. As reported by the Administration, during the payment of one-off cash assistance, the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine was governed by Decision No. 141 of 2 March 2016 on certain issues of payment in 2016 of one-off cash assistance, which states that part 5 of article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and Guarantees of Their Social Protection is being applied as amended by the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for 2008. The amendment of Part 5 of the Veterans Status Act was amended and formulated in such a way that, by 5 May each year, participants in hostilities are paid one-time cash assistance in the amount established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine within the limits of the budgetary allocations established by the State Budget Act of Ukraine. Changes to Article 12 of the Law have been made. Law No. 3551 was later recognized as not in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine, according to a decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 22.05.2008. At the time of payment in 2016, the Ukrainian Law No. 3551 and Cabinet of Ministers Act No. 141 were in force until May 5 at the same time. At the same time, Decree No. 141 of the Ministers of Ukraine was declared illegal and not repealed. Lawyers know that in the event of a lack of compliance with the legal and regulatory act of the Constitution of Ukraine and the law of Ukraine, the application of a legal act which has a higher legal power, i.e. Cabinet Order No. 141, and Law 3551. Based on the analysis of the content of these legislative standards, ATO participants believe that they were to receive 5,000,650 dollars in 2016. Please contact the Ministry of Justice to examine and clarify the legal status of social protection agencies that paid ATO participants less than in 2016.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u135	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Michael Papiev. And the last performance will be by the National Fisherman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u136	Thank you, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine. First of all, I would like to thank Chairman Oksana Ivanovna, because he has the opportunity and the ability of all the Ukrainian national deputies who have expressed their desire to be in the Hall to give their word. That's why I want to thank you. And, dear fellows. Mikhail Papiev, "The Opposition Block." Today let's take a look at what happened at the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the "Year of Questions to the Government." My first request will be to the Prime Minister so that his speech today will not be counted as a kind of presentation to us of the so-called pension reform. That's the first question. The second question. As a person who has worked in government structures, I would like to see the requirements of what were before us as similar requirements to those of the current composition of the government. In my own time, I reported from this rostrum in 2003 on a draft of the Ukrainian Law on National Compulsory Social Pension Insurance. And we did. It was a job, it practically lasted a year. And the people's deputies of the fourth call can confirm, a year. We gave the Supreme Council of Ukraine a fully up-to-date assessment of contributions to the Pension Fund, the size of the pension that will be available to Ukrainian citizens five years later, 10 years later, 20 years later. According to the resources available in the Pension Fund's budget for the indexation of pensions, according to 42 articles of the Ukrainian Law on State-wide Compulsory Pension Insurance, for the modernisation of pensions. In parallel, we gave a demographic cut by. Which is in Ukraine, cut by socio-demographic groups. So this was a little bit of a big job that enabled us to guarantee the citizens of Ukraine: (a) a steady increase in pensions, protection of these pensions from inflation and the national monetary unit and many other issues. What did I hear today from the Prime Minister of Ukraine? In fact, they tell us that they're going to make something better, that they're going to do something. Since October 1, they have promised to modernize their pension. Mr. Prime Minister, tell the truth to the people. Because since 2014, you haven't been doing part two of the 42 articles of the Ukrainian law, because every year until March 1, you were supposed to increase your pensions to the citizens of Ukraine at the rate of increase in the average monthly wage of the previous year. You haven't done this in three years. The second question. Mr. Prime Minister, consider one more thing: that the pension is derived from a salary that cannot be separately adjusted to the derivative without taking into account the function. Therefore, the disability of the Pension Fund will only arise if we have an appropriate increase in wages. And most importantly, when we have the ratio of working people and pensioners to at least 1.4, today it's less than one. And what you plan to do to create.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u137	All of it. Thank you. And the last performance. Please, National Fisherman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u138	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! The experience of successful countries has proved that without an effective banking system there will be no economic development, which means increasing the well-being of every Ukrainian. The banking situation remains very difficult. Last year’s damage to the banking system is already 200 billion dollars. According to the sites we're seeing, the hole in the Privatbank, which was nationalized by the authorities today, is growing. And the National Bank says he didn't see the damage. I have a question, where did the National Bank look? And when I'm asked, what are the errors in the management of the National Bank? So it's one of the mistakes. Because the National Bank, on the one hand, sent the other banks, as I say to the fund under it, was fast enough, and the other banks were getting the money. The bankruptcy today, as I said, continues. There is no credit for the real economy. What does the National Bank do? Our faction of the Radical Party has been working for two years to create a credit-expert agency, a law that is now voted and signed in the Supreme Council. And the National Bank says it's against a tool that will give affordable credit to the real economy. How can our domestic manufacturers today, like the AN planes that our country manufactures, compete with others like Embraer. When Embraer gives a lysing interest, 4-6 percent, and our Ukrainian banks are lending today under 15-17 percent. And that's a big problem. What is the government and head of the National Bank doing today? Instead of gathering the government, the Supreme Council, and developing a plan and strategy for the development of the financial and banking sector, she went on vacation for a month and a half. And today, the National Bank is completely out of control. Our committee held a committee this week and decided to call on the President to speed up and appoint a new head of the National Bank as soon as possible. We made a very big request that this appointment be not a culinary one, and the committee, and the deputies received a candidate for the head of the National Bank not five minutes before the parliamentary vote. And also so that society knows what this pretender is going to do. And so he has a clear plan of development and trust in the banking sector by the time he's appointed. For society to know what steps they will take. Another very important question. These are state banks. 55 percent of the financial and banking sector today is government banks. And today, Minfin should also develop a plan for the development of state banks. Minfin promised us that this plan would be developed. But the state of affairs for today has already gone by, and there is no plan for that. So the faction of the Radical Party, our committee will try everything to get these plans and strategies to be, to be approved, and society knows where we're going today. Because that's the only way we can increase everyone's well-being.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-19-m0.u139	Thank you. Thank you, fellow nationals, for your participation, for your work! The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, May 23, at 10 a.m. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
