ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u1	Colleagues, break time is over. Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please come into the hall, we have a task ahead of us: to collect 150 votes for a reduced procedure so that we can quickly complete the financial bloc. The author, the reporter, is. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. I ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall and prepare for registration. Can we have the registration, colleagues? Please come in. So, if you'd like to take a job and have a check-in. Please register. [[16:05:22]] 362 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. So, colleagues, we continue the financial policy block. And the next thing we're looking at is a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on money transfer regulation (5361-d, MP). And there is a request from the committee head to be considered for a reduced procedure. And I have an appeal to all factions. We spent quite a bit of time in the morning discussing the issue of judicial reform. Now we don't have time to look at the blocks and move on to the next. So there is a request that we now vote in favour of a reduced procedure, colleagues, from the head of the committee. I ask everyone to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Ready to vote? I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm asking you to support the review of Bill 5361-d on a reduced procedure. Colleagues, please support and I ask you to vote carefully. Vote, colleagues, please. Vote. [[16:07:04]] For 106 Let's vote. I'm just explaining the general logic. We have three bills of financial policy left. If we have a reduced procedure, we will be able to look at them within 40 minutes and turn to information issues, which are quite extensive, about electronic trust services. If we go into full procedure, it'll only take an hour to ask. I'm talking to those who often talk about the need for a better organization of the work of the Supreme Council in order for us to be able to work effectively, the bills that have less than a hundred articles, we can consider a reduced procedure. So, please, let's go into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'd like the factions to invite the deputies into the hall and ask them to take up their jobs. Can we vote on how the room feels? Are we able to vote decisively and uncompromisingly or wait? And I'm asking the committee members to help me maximize the hall. Once again, colleagues, I'm voting on a motion to consider a reduced procedure. And I ask everyone to take up their jobs and take part in the vote. Everyone, please mobilize. And I am voting on the proposal to review the simplified procedure for the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of transfers of funds (5361-d, MP). I ask you to support the position of the committee and please vote, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. [[16:10:51]] For 128 There's potential. There's potential, there's positive dynamics. The dynamics are positive, and I'd like to invite you to the People's House. Well, colleagues, I'm just. The same laws or financial policies or information are not the laws of the Speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it's the work of our committees. And that's respect for each other, colleagues. Please take your jobs, come into the hall. Please, we're taking up jobs. So, colleagues, I'm going to re-vote the motion for a reduced procedure, and I'm asking the faction heads to help maximize the hall. Everyone, please take your seats, get ready for the vote. You're ready, aren't you? So I'm voting on a proposal to review the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts governing the transfer of funds (5361-d) under a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, please come in, come in, join the Parliament. We're voting, aren't we? We support and we vote. Please vote, please support. Vote! [[16:13:32]] For-144 We're close to the finish line. We're close to winning. Sergei, colleagues, I'm just going to say that we have to watch every voice when you leave your seat when you vote, it's irresponsible. Right? Tell Sergei it's irresponsible. So I see that the hall is ready to make a positive decision. All it takes is for everyone to take up their jobs, not leave the hall, but go in the opposite direction. Please, colleagues, we're taking up jobs. I'm going to put it to the vote again. So there are voices. Please be prepared. And I'm re-voting the proposal that we consider draft Law 5361-d. Please vote everyone, each voice has a weight. Please vote, please support. Vote! Please support, we vote. [[16:15:17]] For-161 This is a responsible vote. And they say Parliament doesn't work. Parliament works so hard that the smoke goes. So, colleagues, I invite you to the report the head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking Activities of the Fishing Committee, Sergio Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Every consumer of banking services understands the importance of IT technology. New payment systems, new programs and money change the financial and banking sector dramatically. Today, Ukrainian banks have a chance to become leaders in some ways of customer service. This means both the cost of services and the promotion of the economy. Because the state has to catch up with these technologies. Therefore, the purpose of the bill is to modernise the regulation of payment systems, to organize non-bank financial institutions in the market for payment services and to empower non-bank financial institutions to issue electronic money, and to bring national criminal legislation into line with European standards. It is not possible for criminal responsibility in our country to be for fraudulent activities using electronic money. For example, in European countries this standard and responsibility is substantial, no less than a year. On March 14, this year, the Supreme Council was unable to adopt this bill in its first reading due to the banal absence of deputies in the workplace. The committee's working group has made every effort to take into account our colleagues' proposals and implement this bill in order to support it in Parliament. So on April 4, this year, the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking reviewed the bill, recommended that the Supreme Council approve it in its first reading. And after the first reading, create a commission, a working group that includes national MPs, representatives of the National Bank, the government, the National Police and the Attorney General's Office to prepare this bill carefully for second reading. We are obliged, I believe, to give impetus to the development of modern payment technologies in Ukraine and to protect citizens from fraud. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u3	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Lavrick Oleg Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u4	Please pass the word to Roman Semensi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u5	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! Electronic calculations are for every developed state in the world a leader in the world of today's digital market. Digital technology has now become part of every sphere of government activity. And commercial transactions today don't run out of electronic transfers and electronics. And the state must act as an effective regulator of this process. In Ukraine, there's a long-standing need to define the legal concept of electronic money, payment infrastructure, payment systems, and industry-related terminology. There is a need to secure a branch regulator to speak with the National Bank of Ukraine, to develop an order for the processing of documentation and information in electronic accounting, to harmonize the licensing process and control of electronic money issuers. Today, Germany, China, Japan, and other nations have already recognized the legal status of the Bitcoin electronic money system and are using its advantages and capabilities. In the meantime, last year, we came to terms with the ban on the electronic accounting system that the whole world is using, especially the WebMoney system. In this situation, Ukraine rejects this situation on the sidelines of the world’s financial flows. So today, we are the Supreme Council to immediately correct these gaps and simplify conditions in our territory for the registration of a contract to participate in an international payment system. And that's exactly what the current bill predicts. Moreover, the redraft prepared by the committee for the first reading corrects any comments made during the first consideration. So the Self-Help faction calls for support for this bill, which really integrates us into today's digital world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u6	Thank you. Swelling Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u7	Please pass the word to Demczak Ruslan Evgeniovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u8	The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko supports this bill on the basis. Its acceptance will give green light to the arrival in Ukraine of world leaders of electronic payments, such as PayPal, QiWi, WebMoney, and allow the use of cryptocurrencies, such as bitcoins. Because at present there is a paradoxical situation, in our country few people know and understand the cryptocurrency, its use is banned by the state, but Ukraine is included in five countries around the world with a number of users with different electronic wallets. This law legalizes payment systems that will greatly facilitate the lives of Ukrainian Freelancers, small - and - medium - business programmers who work for foreign clients. It will also become easier for the same Ukrainians who pay for goods or services on the Internet. The law will spur the development of electronic commerce in Ukraine and make it easier for domestic producers to enter the international market. The global market for electronic commerce is currently estimated at 1.8 trillion dollars and Law 5361 creates the conditions for the inclusion of part of these funds in the Ukrainian economy. At the same time, the bill significantly reinforces the responsibility for criminal and fraudulent activities in the area of electronic payments, because a single register and every participant in payment systems or one who wants to broadcast currency will have to be controlled by our Ukrainian regulators to ensure that consumers have somewhere to turn. in the event of a violation of their rights. Right now they have nowhere to go, because these systems, they're registered outside our country. This is a progressive and necessary bill that all Ukrainians await. That's why the Peter Dusty Block supports his acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u9	Thank you. Sergei Sobolev from Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u10	Sobolje, Fatherland. Our faction believes that without the clear position of the National Bank, which, according to previous speakers, has in fact banned the operation of electronic money, namely Bitcoins in Ukraine, to consider this bill to a lesser extent is strange. We would like to hear here a statement by a representative of the National Bank, who should either explain his position when they approved the appropriate decision or declare that they were wrong. And so, in fact, the regulator avoids responsibility for the decisions they've made before. It's different. This law actually introduces the concept of electronic money. Although the authors continue to correct themselves and claim that this is not a real issue in the classical sense of the word, it will not in any case result in any inflationary effect. But in fact, due to a double interpretation of these rules, the bill allows us to continue to actually abuse it. Third. In fact, the key regulator of the National Bank will be responsible for the functioning of this payment system in Ukraine. So without clear conclusions from the National Bank, I believe that the consideration of this bill, even in the first reading, is one that does not fit the spirit of this reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u11	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement, and then we're going to move on to making a decision. And so please invite the deputies to the hall. We'll vote in two minutes. I now invite you to the floor of Yatzenk Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u12	Dear Head, dear colleagues. This law is really, really interesting and I want to say that I've been in Parliament for ten years, but for the first time, I can see when it's proposed to create an alternative currency, an electronic money issue. Well, we'll remind the honourable Committee on Banking Finances that the only currency in Ukraine is the bracelet. It suggests that electronic money can pay for goods, products, taxes, and so forth. So today it's actually going to lead to devaluation, the tinnitus of the economy, the devaluation of the national currency. And so, unfortunately, this law is, well, impossible to maintain. I absolutely agree with the previous speaker, Mr. Sobolev, he said the right things. So let's not support this law right now. And we still have to work to make the financial system of Ukraine stable, not to introduce things that completely detiny it, shade it, forgive it, and balance it. That's why Rebirth won't support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u13	So, colleagues, please come into the hall. Another closing word to the committee’s head, as the question came to him. Please, Fish, one minute. And I'm going to ask you to take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u14	My fellow Members, I very much ask you to support this bill, because if we want to go to Europe, we must also bring our legislative laws to legislative European levels. First of all, it's an important bill, and when we're counting on electronic money, it's not a shadow that we're putting money into, but we're going to the European standards that we have. Secondly, there can be no criminal responsibility in a country that wants to enter Europe in the case of fraudulent acts when citizens are robbed and are not held criminally responsible. And thirdly, yes, of course, some of our colleagues say that today is 5 percent of the market, but if we live and want to get into the future, not the past, we need to deal with it. And our committee has indeed developed and recommends that the Supreme Council vote in favour of this bill in its first reading. If there are any comments, we are ready to work together and listen to each and every one of you. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u15	Thank you. I would like to point out that the committee is only proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. We can make all the adjustments between the first and the second readings. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts governing the transfer of funds (number 5361-d, MP) on the basis. Please vote, please support. Voting colleagues, please support. [[16:27:18]] For 180. Show the factions, please. Colleagues, I'll be back in a minute. If there are no votes, then I'll suggest you return to the committee for further work. Please come into the hall and take jobs, please. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. I'll put it back on, if I don't, I'll offer it back to the committee. And I'm voting on the proposal that Bill 5361-d return to his voting as a basis. Please vote, please support the return to voting as a basis, we vote. [[16:28:50]] For-195 The decision is not taken. No voices. Colleagues, we support the committee's proposal, right? Then let me now put, colleagues, the proposal that follows the Rules, this is to send to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. Are you ready? All right, I'll say it under the transcript, with the National Bank. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote so that we don't waste our time. Please, and I'm proposing that the bill 5361 would be sent to the committee to prepare for the re-first reading at the National Bank. Please vote, please support, vote, please support. [[16:29:52]] For 197 I'm proposing that the bill 5361-d return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative for further development. My colleagues, I want to tell you, by the way, I'm asked where the coalition is today, two blocks of committees headed by opposition representatives. Both the coalition, and the Peter Prashenko Block, and the People's Front, are voting systematically in support of the opposition. So I say, I'm asking you to mobilize your strength, because the coalition today shows an example of solidarity and support, the coalition shows. So, colleagues, I'm voting on a proposal to draft Law 5361-d to re-establish the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work with the National Bank. Please support, please vote, colleagues, vote. Please be supportive. [[16:31:01]] For 205 The decision is not taken. Bill 5361-d has been rejected. Next: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (for simplifying business and attracting investment by issuers of securities) (number 5592-d). [[B in m in s a l in]] There's plenty of people in the room. There's plenty of people in the room. Two factions don't vote, we have 205. "The Opposition Block" and "The Fatherland" are very simple. So, colleagues, I'm putting a motion to the vote to consider a reduced procedure of 5592-d. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. We're voting for a reduced procedure, please support. [[16:32:11]] For-161 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking's work, Mr. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u16	Congratulations, fellows of honor! National MP Rizanenko, head of the Securities and Stock Market Subcommittee. Your opinion is proposed to consider Bill Registration No. 5592 completed since 20.04.2017. On March 14, this year, Project 5592 was transferred to the committee for further work, that is to say, it was aimed at re-reading the first reading, which was voted in favour. A total of 227 votes were cast. The bill was completed by a working group at the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking in conjunction with the NCTF, with an expert environment, taking into account the proposals and comments made by the NEU, as well as those made during the plenary session of the Supreme Council on 14 March 2017. During the first reading of the bill, some comments were made by the MP, some of which were included in the revised version. So, for example, there were comments by the National MP, Yatzenka, about the notion of "alien emitter," which could include emitters from an aggressor country. This was finalized and the proposal was considered accordingly. There were also remarks made by Mr. Levchenk. Unified, changing terms of "spie securities" in the Civil Code of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Securities and Stock Market Act have been developed. There were comments by GNEU. Excluding duplication of the relevant provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on raising corporate governance. So two bills were duplicating each other. Also. on the removal from the full appointment of a shareholder association of the definition of its type proposed in the amendments to part four of the Shareholders Act. Members of the working group have been excluded from amendments to Ukraine's laws, Ukraine's Land Code, Ukraine's Master Code, Ukraine's legislation on the free system in the field of economic activity, on free activities in the field of nuclear energy use, on telecommunications, on government regulation of production and circulation of ethyl alcohol, on land rental, on state registration of goods rights, on the State Land cadastre. Excluded standards are related.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u17	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u18	In addition, rules have been removed in connection with the creation of legal frameworks for the operation of alternative stock trading venues called BTS. Properly refined and harmonized terminology throughout the text of the bill. Bill 5592 is important for shareholders in the disclosure of information in the stock market with world standards. In addition, the bill will allow all issuers to become such that they do not make public offerings of securities other than the issuers who will be in the lettering on 01.01.2018.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u20	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u21	Okay. Thirty seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u22	I would like the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (to simplify business and attract investment by issuers of securities) (number 5592-d) in the first reading on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u23	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Luszko Oleg Valeriyovich, please
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u24	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I want to draw your attention to an extremely important fact. A draft budget resolution for 2018 was approved at the government meeting last week. The government's decision is that in the new year 2018, the minimum wage will be three thousand 700 dollars. Let me remind you, our team's efforts from this year's minimum wage have doubled to three hundred. In the new year, the government wants to do three 700. We will go to Europe at this rate for a thousand years. Because if we tell people what to live in Europe, it means that it is not just a car, but a job and a decent salary, which will enable people to enjoy the benefits of being without a car, to feed their families, and to earn a living. So we think that these humiliating taxes are 500 dollars a year, which offends every Ukrainian, and four million people in Ukraine today get a minimum wage. The government wants to raise the retirement age. But the retirement age will not increase. So for people to have a normal pension, you have to do one thing: raise wages, because it's the contributions and wages that then form the basis of the pension. So we ask the government to review its budget resolutions and set a minimum wage from October 1 to October 1st of the year at the level of 5,000 dollars a month, and from the new year to add another 1.5 thousand dollars to ensure that people get a decent salary and have the opportunity to feed their families. We require the government to radically change politics, raise the income of Ukrainians and create jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u25	From the Block of Peter Poshenko of Macedonia, Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u26	I give my word to Ruslan Demchak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u27	Dear colleagues! The members of our committee not only require an increase in wages but also provide a mechanism to do so. There is no stock market in our country. Absolutely. We want to bring you all back to the essence of our discussion today before the process that will allow you to restore and create a stock market in Ukraine at all. We have a lot of open stock companies today, but as a result, the market doesn't work. Why does it not work as in Germany, as in the United States? The volume of this market may correspond to the volume of the banking sector. I see you don't have much interest in talking about it today. There are more of these populist sentiments to talk about what we all understand. Let's go back to the mechanism. This bill provides an opportunity to protect investors. The investors who will buy shares in Ukrainian companies will invest in our Ukrainian economy. It's going to make the process of restoring our economy go awry. We are aware of the commission's initiative today. The National Securities and Stock Market Commission, which has taken such an active position and has helped us, together with the members of our committee, the authors of this bill, to give impetus to Ukraine's economy. So let's focus on the point, let's vote for this bill today, we'll work on it for the second reading, and we'll create this basis for the development of the country's economy. And wages are going to be much higher than twice. I think Ukrainians deserve an absolute European salary. That's what we're going to do, and that's how we're introducing European directives in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u28	Kulinich gives the word to Yatzenk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, this law is also very interesting, as it was before, because under the beautiful title of "for simplifying business," "for investment" there are some such interesting things that are immediately mentioned as "12 chairs" (the film was so Soviet) when the festive factory is its own. What do I mean? The Securities Commission has a rule, a mandate to authorize all persons who intend to provide information services in the stock market, and to maintain a proper register and also to authorize and require software and technology complexes. In fact, artificial regulation and adminbars are introduced for the free market. Secondly, such an information agent is introduced, a person who will be involved in the publication of regulated information on behalf of the participants in the stock market. There are many legal nuisances and, above all, having examined the statements of well-known companies, stock market analysts also see the risk that international intelligence, such as Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, may come out of the market for which such authorisation may be at all unacceptable. Therefore, a great request to fellow workers to take this law seriously. And I think, at best, for the first time again. "Rebirth" won't support this law either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u30	Thank you. Please, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u31	Today, this feeling, all day long, we've been passing laws that are probably for Mars or Venus, but not for our citizens who are living today with discounted prices, terrible tariffs, lack of work and the terrible power structures that test them, personal business. The bill, it's very bad. There are some good details. But most of the time, I'm going to mark them very briefly. First of all, article 78, Shareholder Information Society. This article will make most of the shareholders’ associations available as private shareholders. That makes sense. But then there's the question of where hundreds of thousands of minority shareholders of the CAO will go, which is completely uncomprehensible, and they won't actually be able to get it, and they'll influence the actions of their stockholders and have information. This step marks the end of the first phase of privatization in Ukraine. Next. Securities, Stock Market, Article 6. Shareholders are expected to be left behind, and listen carefully to the preferred right to buy shares in the issuance process if the general shareholders’ meetings so decide. Well, we haven't had that in 20 years. In addition, it is possible for minority shareholders to be victims of the banal blurry of their fate. These are changes to the Act on Shareholders. And it's also very embarrassing, personally, when it gives caution to those who buy our shares in the RRO process. And so should the commission, and the law should stimulate the appearance.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u32	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u33	In the law, for example, shareholder congregations have less influence than oversight councils. Believe me, these are eight pages of just comments that make it worse today for minority shareholders and give impossible powers to the Securities Commission, the overwhelming powers that make it worse, give them freedom of interpretation, give each of them time limits that give them corruption risks. That's the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u34	Thank you. Colleagues, it's coming from the Opposition Block, Gusak and Self-Help, Lavrick. Two minutes, and we're moving on to making decisions. I'll give the commission a word, too, one minute. And in three minutes, we'll move on to making decisions. So, please, from the Opposition Block, Deputy Gusak. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u35	Respectable colleagues, real wage increases cannot be achieved without economic growth, and economic growth cannot be achieved without investment and a normal financial market. And the stock market itself has to be one of the main sources of funding for Ukrainian businesses. When I was preparing for this bill, I looked at what capitalization of the Ukrainian stock market was now, and frankly, I was just shocked. So far, this capitalization is under $500 million. By comparison, the capitalization of Poland’s stock market is $200 billion, and the capitalization of Russia’s stock market after all US$500 billion sanctions is a thousand times higher than in Ukraine. This bill contains positive standards for improving the order of issuance of securities. Can I have some more?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u36	30 seconds, please add.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u37	This bill contains positive standards for improving the order of issuance of securities, for disclosure of information, because transparency is all we have. And that's why our faction will support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u38	And Lavrick, please, one minute. Turn on Lavrick's microphone. Lavrick, Self-Help, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u39	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help Union. Indeed, there are many interesting things in this bill, including the publication of information, distribution, reporting. Shareholders will no longer have to print in the Voice of Ukraine a lot of information about their activities, and all of this will be done on the websites of the commission or the issuer itself. There are many interesting proposals for dividend payments and so forth. But who are we going to fool? The bill destroys standards that completely blur the rights of minority shareholders. And by decisions of the general congregation, shareholders who own less than 25 percent of the shares may lose their right to an additional issue. Under these circumstances, the Self-Help faction will not support this law. We therefore suggest that article 27, paragraph 4, instead of 75 percent of the decision - making process in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u40	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u41	Instead of 75 percent of the decision taken by the general stockholders on the additional issue, it should be corrected by 95 percent. This will ensure that minority shareholders are not lost the right to additional emissions, which means that they are entitled to remain shareholders of those enterprises. Only under such conditions are we ready. We've spoken to the drafters of the bill, and they've agreed to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u42	Okay. Before the vote, we'll ask the author and the committee if they agree with your amendment, if they agree, I'll put her to a vote. Can I say with the correction that Oleg Lavrick said under the transcript? I can tell. You said it correctly and correctly. Okay. Then please take the position of Timur Chromaeus, head of the Securities and Stock Market Commission. Turn on the microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u43	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! Thank you for being able to tell you about our financial bills. But every time we try, unfortunately, there is neither desire nor attention. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that the financial market in Ukraine right now, which is the market for securities, is basically a schematic, which is an optimization, the volume of $70 billion. It exists, it exists until laws are passed that introduce European norms. The draft law completely deprives us of the existence of such fictitious, open, stockholder societies that we are currently trading. We're actually turning all stock companies into private stock companies, and we're starting to build our market from scratch. This is the introduction of the euro-redictive, it is an improvement in the information of processes, the refusal of printed publications and the provision of an adequate level of information for investors in Ukraine. We, by the way, support Mr. Lavrik's comment and agree with all the changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u44	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Go into the hall and take jobs. Colleagues who are in the boat will ask you to do so. You're welcome. Please come into the hall and let's go to the vote. And I am voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on simplifying business and attracting investment by issuers of securities (No. 5592-d), (deputy), on the basis of proposals made by the Ukrainian national deputy Oleg Lavrik under the transcript. Please vote, please support (5592-d) as a basis. Vote, colleagues, please. Vote. [[16:52:04]] For 231 Decision taken. Colleagues, we have the last issue of financial policy, this is the draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to increase trust between banks and their customers (6027). I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues, please vote. [[16:52:45.]] For 169 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking of Douben Mikhail Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, your opinion is on the draft Law (No. 6027) introduced by the National Deputies of the Professional Committee. I want to say that there is a systemic problem in Ukraine today that is that if we want to increase economic recovery, we have to think about how we should increase the lending of our economy, and here we see a few elements of a very serious problem. First of all, in the banking system today, 57 percent of the problem of debt. This means that 57 percent of all credits are not served for 90 or more days, which means there can be no income. The other one. I want to say that if banks can't get the corresponding interest income, we now have more than 90 banks that are bankrupt, which means we can't today ensure that the citizens of Ukraine and legal persons, businesses and firms have the funds that were in these banks. This is what you and I are experiencing in the hall today: What do specific people have from each bill? Here we see the interest of our Ukrainians. Thirdly, what I'm saying is, if banks aren't motivated to raise loans, we see that there can be no growing economic power of the state. I want to say that the last one is that, according to the latest Doing Business rating, Ukraine has only 8 out of 12 credit protection indexes. So I would like to conclude by saying that the National Bank supports the bill and considers it relevant, although the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority concludes that it is appropriate to return the bill to the draft and take into account the comments and proposals. We on the committee think that we can do this before the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u46	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u47	And finally, I want to say that both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance support the adoption of a bill that takes into account the comments made, which we are also willing to take into account in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u48	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Happy Natalia Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u49	Please pass the word to Semensi Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u50	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the lending market in Ukraine today is very fragile. Long-term loans in large amounts and mortgages today are risky for both banks and their customers. Mortgage programs, at the moment I can afford, in the country only about five banks and the percentage of annuals varies between 22 and 23 percent. Instead, in the leading countries of Europe, this figure is less than 2 percent. So the Self-Help faction will support any legislative initiative that improves the situation in the banking market. At the same time, we pay attention to two important points that should be explicitly removed in preparation for the second reading. First, it's a change to article 39 of the Law on Mortgage, namely the removal of the term "the route of public trade," which will lead to the decision not to indicate the way property is realized and to give freedom to actions that will not always be good. Second, it is totally inappropriate to propose to delete a rule which provides that if a variable interest rate is applied in a credit agreement, the maximum increase in the interest rate should be determined. This also disrupts the balance between the borrower and the creditor. But most of all. If we want to talk today about a real restoration of trust in the banking sector, this should start with the involvement of criminals, unscrupulous owners of Ukrainian banks, who have caused significant losses, which are covered by taxpayers. I'm just going to give you a few figures that the taxpayers have paid. Private Bank today is about 200 billion dollars worth of damage. The Bank of Finance and Credit is 17.5 billion dollars. Imexbank is 8 billion dollars. Last but not least, 1 billion of the bank is from Diamond Bank. I point out that today no shareholder in the listed banks has been held accountable or punished or attracted because of his property. I call on the law enforcement authorities to really fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u51	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u52	I encourage law enforcement to fight real criminals who are ruining trust in a credit bank today. Because today it's an idea that today, for the state, for the law enforcement organs of Andri Sadow, Self-Help is enemy number one. So I want you to finally attract those oligarchs who, as a result of criminal refinancing, have led today to the fact that taxpayers in their pockets are counted for these crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u53	Thank you. From Rebirth, Vassil Alexanderovich has been playing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u54	Please pass the word to Anton Yatzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, this law is actually aimed at a unilateral mechanism for the protection of the rights of lender banks, which does not take into account the interests of borrowers. And here many changes are made to the laws. Therefore, we feel that this law should also be directed to read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u56	Sergey was sore. He's handing John Krulke over.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u57	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I would like to address Ukrainian citizens first. Of course, there is a very right initiative to increase trust between banks and bank customers. That's commendable. But on what account? By increasing the capacity of banks and weakening the ability of customers. And it is this observation that the scientific and expert management notes in its conclusion, according to which the scientific and expert board proposes to send this bill for further work. Because there can be no situation where there is one - sidedness. On the one hand, we're also strengthening the serious capabilities of banks, and on the other hand, it's weakening the ability of the customers, the debtors of these banks. If we really want to increase our trust in the banking sector, the first thing we have to do is to finally free Gottarev and hold her responsible for having 80 banks down in Ukraine. For the fact that Ukrainian citizens who invested their money in banks that had funds in their accounts, legal persons who had funds in their accounts lost those funds. But if you borrowed a loan from the bank, whether the bank failed or not, you must return it. So where is justice, where is trust in the banking system? So, in fact, not by such laws, such trust is strengthened. And trust is enhanced by the stability of the banking market, that if you know, if you bring in the bank funds, they will be fully preserved and the funds that were in the account will be able to use them. So let's start with people's issues. And those who have committed crimes in the banking sphere will be called to account for their actions and primarily the head of Nazbanku Gotarev so far. Thank you. And Fatherland won't vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u58	From Peter Dustenka's Block, Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u59	The social-democratic party, myself and my colleague Alexander Sugonjako in principle refuse to vote for this prooligarchy, anti-national, anti-constitutional bill. Before investigating the crimes of the oligarchs, who owned and owned the largest Ukrainian banks, to investigate the criminal co-operation of the oligarchs with all without exception of the governments, to the Mafia. Before investigating the activities of a mobster who had been used for 27 years by ordinary ordinary Ukrainians, looting Ukrainians, doing so together with the International Monetary Fund, which, by order of a number of times, has been devalued the Ukrainian bracelet, no laws of a similar nature can be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First the investigation, the brutal permanent landings of bandits, then the settlement of similar issues. The other one. At the same time, the Ukrainian government and parliament face serious financial challenges: Where do they get the money? My point is that the answers to these questions are on the surface, including the activities of the Supreme Council. Every deputy in Ukraine, and they or you are silent about it today and yesterday came letters from the Supreme Council's apparatus asking to sign a vacation application, and then the Ukrainian National MP in 45 days' vacation, the beach gets double pay. I call on all the nappies that stand on the side of common people’s interests, to give up this shameful robe, and to return to the common people with their faces. We're starting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u60	Colleagues, from the Radical Party of Lazko, two minutes. And, colleagues, to understand, yes, there will be a performance from the Opposition Block, and from the non-fractional there will be Lechchenko to guide them in time. We're moving to the vote in four or five minutes. I'll have the deputies in the room. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u61	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, consider this figure, the Deposit Guarantee Fund has paid 87 billion dollars over the past two years, 87 billion dollars The Deposit Guarantee Fund has paid the depositors of the banks that have been destroyed. More than 80 banks were destroyed as a result of a policy led by the head of the National Bank of Honduras in Ukraine. A large part of these banks could live. Around the world, in civilized countries, these banks save when there is the slightest chance. Because it's not just a sign-up, it's people's deposits, it's the circulation costs of legal persons, it's collateral property. You've heard a story recently. One of the representatives of the Deposit Guarantee Fund was held in bribes for $5 million. This woman, who was detained, received $5 million worth of bribes to sell her mortgage. That's how one was held up, and how many were not held up! And if bribes take $5 million, how many billion of these bribes did they get? That's why I'm addressing President Dusty. A few months ago, a statement was made by Nazbank Gontareva’s head about his resignation. I ask the President to submit to the Supreme Council for the release of the Hontareva from office as head of the Nutzbank. We're calling the head of Nazbank Gontarevo here for the report. Before being released, she has to report on the results of her work. Why they've been refinancing banks, who've then cashed them into dollars, pushed them abroad, and today we're paying 200 billion dollars from the state budget for the Privat, a billion dollars for the Mikhailinski Bank, and you can give dozens of these examples. Why should Ukrainians pay for bank owners? Because it is obvious that Gonnaareva was with them in a conspiracy and received her share of the stolen funds. This must be investigated.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u62	From the opposition block of Dudenkov, one minute. Turn on the mic, please, Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u63	Dear colleagues! Respectable Ukrainian citizens! The bill is now being considered, which is called upon to normalize the credit relationship between the bank and the customers. You don't have to say that banks are evil, which. Accordingly, it requires certain loans, problematic loans that are among citizens. In doing so, we understand the situation of the citizens of Ukraine who are themselves. face-to-face problems with your debt to the banks. But what is the reason? The reason for this is that the state has been conducting a wrong monetary policy because they've stimulated consumer lending rather than stimulating the lending of businesses that create the basis of the economy. Overcrowding in problem consumer credit causes such a situation, since banks cannot, for example, avoid paying credit to other financial institutions, parent companies, and do not raise debt. And of course, the acquisition of this power is a significant devaluation of the bracelet, because the majority of consumers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u64	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u65	The bulk of consumer credit is actually expressed in foreign currency and because of this 300 percent devaluation due to the acquisition of real power, unfortunately, people have grown debt, just a loan portfolio, because it's impossible to borrow in that currency that you don't get in everyday life. And in general, it is necessary to prohibit the lending of consumer loans in foreign currency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u66	Thank you. Colleagues, this is the closing act. In a minute we're going to the vote, I'm asking everyone to come into the room, take their seats, and please let the deputies know that in a minute we're moving on to making decisions. Please, Lechchenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u67	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. You know, there's a lot of talk about this law, and in one minute you won't fit in, so I'd like to try to generalize it briefly. The question is that this bill is unilateral and aimed at protecting the interests of banks without guaranteeing the rights of debtors. Debtors are a weaker side in their relationship with the bank and their rights must be guaranteed primarily in comparison with banks. Here it is felt that all debtors, their trustees, and their heirs, and so forth, are obliged to act to secure the assets of the banks and that the banks themselves should not take measures to ensure their own interests. And this approach is totally unacceptable. Moreover, this bill clearly contains some preposterous positions that should not be prescribed at all are not subject to subject matter. For example, it's written. there are changes to the Mortgage Act, which proposes to establish that self-sustainment is considered part of a mortgage if it is made at a mortgage. So this bill is supposed to apply. Please let me finish for 10 seconds. This bill is supposed to apply.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u68	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u69	This bill, which should apply exclusively to the banking sphere, creates a mechanism for, another legal mechanism for legalizing self-made property, for illegal forgetfulness. And it's totally unacceptable, it can only be done through the courts, not in the way it's supposed to be. This bill cannot be voted on even in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u70	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. Please take up jobs. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to increase trust between banks and their customers (number 6027) on the basis of a committee proposal. All the suggestions and corrections we can make to the second reading. Please vote. Please support 6027 on a base. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:10:34]] For 207 Not enough voices. I'll put it on the way back. If I don't, I'm gonna propose to the committee for work. So, colleagues, mobilize. I'll put the vote back on the ground. Please mobilize, take up jobs. And I'm proposing to go back to voting for the draft Law (6027) as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:11:26]] For 209 209 is not enough. My colleagues, would you mind if I put you on the committee for work? Will it be supported? It'll be supported, won't it, colleagues? Then I make the next proposal, as foreseen by the rules of procedure. I'm asking you to support her. And I'm putting the vote to send the bill (6027) to the committee for re-reading. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Let's support this so we don't lose the bill. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:12:20]] For 237 Decision taken. Colleagues, we agreed for lunch that the question of "inclusion in the agenda of the day session" would be considered after lunch, because we started looking before lunch, there were no votes. There are proposals from different factions. And I'm going to remind you that they've been on the Supreme Council site for a week. And I'm convinced that each faction has already set itself up with expert groups who support and who don't support the inclusion of the day session. And I suggest we get through them quickly now. There's a deal, right? Let's get ready, I'll call it, and you just figure out whether your faction supports or not. So the first one that I've already put to lunch is the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Third Additional Protocol and the Fourth Additional Protocol to the European Convention on the Extradition of Offenders (No. 6149). Did everyone get their bearings? Take up jobs, please. And I'm voting on the proposal to include 6149 in the agenda of the session. Please vote, please support. Vote! [[17:13:52]] For 232 Decision taken. Next is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act concerning the activities of higher education institutions in Donetské and Luhansk oblasts (No. 6548). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:14:31]] For 243 Decision taken. Next. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Voluntary Integration of Territorial Communities on the Voluntary Integration of Territorial Communities of Rurals, Villages to Territorial Communities of Cities of Area Value (No. 6466). Can we vote? Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the 6466 session. Vote, colleagues, arranged and responsibly. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:15:21]] For 201 Is there a political reason? Well, obviously there is. Let's put it down. Next. Draft Act amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sport (for the clarification of certain provisions) (No. 6120). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. We'll support physical culture and sports. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:16:03]] For 211 What's wrong with sports? But, colleagues, we're not going to start discussing laws. And once again, the idea is that we're putting them up a week ahead of schedule and that at least expert factions have to put a plus-minus. And at the time of the vote, you should have your position on each of them. But if I start talking, it'll take an hour, because I can't give one faction. Then I have to give it to everyone. And we'll go into endless consideration. Let me put it again, it'll pass, it won't pass, it won't work. So, colleagues, please mobilize. I once again propose to vote that the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport (6120) should be put into the order of the day session only to include. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:17:14]] For 215 215. No votes. Next: Draft Law on Amendments to Article 133 of the Tax Code of Ukraine (to secure the introduction of pension funds into the Register of Non-profit Institutions and Organizations) (Nos.6534 and 6534-1). Please support, vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please vote. [[17:17:58]] For 219 I'll do it again. My colleagues, take your jobs, I'll put it back up. There are few votes missing, but you simply ask your colleagues to take up positions during the vote. Ready? For those of you who say there are no people, I want to stress. We had a vote of 242 five minutes ago. So once again, I'm putting to the vote the draft Law (6534 and 6534-1) of inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. We vote carefully, each voice matters. [[17:18:51]] For 218. Next: Draft Act amending the Act of Chapter II of the Act on the Final Status of Ukraine on the Amendment of the Customs Code of Ukraine and the Act on the Development of Aircraft Construction Industry (No. 6538). Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote. [[17:19:37]] For 204 I'll put it to the vote again, please. I will re-vote the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Final Position (6538). Please support the inclusion of the day session, please vote, please support. [[17:20:10]] For 196 The decision is not taken. Next: Draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the operation of the Accounting Centre for the maintenance of financial markets contracts (number 6539). Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. [[17:20:47]] For 158. The decision is not taken. Next: Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Improving the Regulation of Road Traffic Safety Relations (No. 5314). Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. [[17:21:24]] For 207 I'll put it again, please mobilize. So I am re-voting the proposal to include in the agenda of the day's session a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the regulation of road safety relations (5314). Please vote, please support, please vote. [[17:22:10]] For 204 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, there's been a statement from two factions about the break, they're willing to replace it with a speech from the rostrum, from the People's Front, from the Radical Party of Lacha. And I give the floor to Maxim Burbak, the head of the People's Front faction. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, good afternoon, I am addressing all of you who, on Friday after the end of the session, will sit on airplanes and fly home to use them as they go on vacation, as millions of Ukrainian citizens are now using. I want to let you know that the number of passengers in 2026 has increased by one and a half times compared to 2015, that our citizens have finally started using medium-speed and inland aviation aircraft between cities and the district centers of Ukraine. I can say that with the opening and granting of visa-free visas in Ukraine with the EU countries, the Loukost companies will eventually enter the Ukraine market. Despite the fierce opposition, our citizens will eventually be able to fly 15, 20, 30 euros between the capitals of Europe. Therefore, I ask you, Mr. Head, to re-introduce the daily bill number 6538, which allows you to postpone the introduction of 20 percent of VAT into the fleet that is being imported into Ukraine. Because this is how we need to help with the domestic aircraft, the carriers, especially the natives, are ready to take home the domestic planes. But when will they be made? Since January 1, 2018, 20 percent of VAT has been introduced. And it's going to be a burden on our inner passengers, on all of our citizens, on all of our constituents who chose us here. So, honourable colleagues, now that the High Council speaker demands the People's Front faction to put this issue to a vote, each of you will vote by supporting this bill to be placed in the agenda to allow our passengers to fly at normal prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u72	Thank you, Mr. Maxim. I'm taking into account the People's Front proposal to put the vote again. And I was approached by committee heads, colleagues, asking us to return to the three bills, please listen carefully. It's 5314, which regulates road safety, no politics, and it's just a day-to-day session. This is the one that Maxim Burbak was talking about, 6538, and 6534, where we didn't get, literally, a few votes. I have an appeal to everyone. When we formed the order of the day session, we included all the bills that were registered, and I initiated it. It was fair, it was right for these bills to be included and then committees to work. It's not fair when we block non-inclusion in the agenda. So I'm going to ask all the people's deputies to support me now, and I'm going to put these three draft laws again. We're not discussing, Front took a break, they took a break from two factions and you can take, you'll have a word. Come on, fellows, I'll put it again, and I'm asking you to support everyone. It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. Which one do we start with? We're starting at 6538, right? I'm asking you to mobilize and support each other, it's just getting into the agenda of the day session. And I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Final Position of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on Development of Aircraft Construction Industry (for support of the aviation sector) (6538). Colleagues, please back up, please vote. Keep it up, fellows. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:27:12]] For 186 Next: 6534. No, let's do 5314: draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the regulation of road safety relations (5314). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:27:51]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. And another I put 6534 and 6534-1: draft Act amending article 133 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the 6534 and 6534-1 sessions. Please vote. Vote. [[17:28:28]] For-191 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, we've completed some of the drafts, we've incorporated some of the drafts into the agenda, we haven't included any of them. Now we're going to the information block. And, colleagues, I want to let you know, we've been working so long hours that we're not going to be able to look at the draft Law on Electronic Trust Services. There's 500 rights, and the committee asked him to take it off, because we're just not going to be able to look at it. And so we're going to go to the first reading, and we're going to be able to look at the first reading of two bills that are merging from the information block. The first is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation (to increase liability for damage to telecommunications networks) (number 4497). I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[17:29:37]] For 177 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Seminohe Roman Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u73	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! Your point is a very simple Bill 4497 on increasing responsibility for damage to telecommunications networks. In fact, it's the third draft of this bill that takes into account all the previous comments, but the relevance of this bill is only continuing to increase. Today, it can be noted with certainty that thefts, damage to telecommunications devices are increasing steadily, are becoming more systematic and organized, and there is a significant increase in the criminogenic situation. We're fixing the creation of entire crime centers that steal and continue to supply this equipment. And the figures in these cities are higher than the figures in other cities. This is, first of all, Dnipro, Kharkiv, Zaporozhye. It's important to note that today people are suffering, not from telecom operators, but from people. As a result of such thefts, it is becoming increasingly difficult for operators to provide continuous service to their citizens. The Internet and other forms of communication have now become a means of production in the modern economy and an ingredient in all sectors of the economy. The damage to telecommunications networks has serious consequences for both legal persons and individuals involved. In fact, the bill proposes amendments to article 360 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. That is, a comprehensible apparatus that conforms to the basic telecommunications bill increases punishment for damage or destruction of technical equipment, adds penalties for the same acts committed repeatedly or after a previous conspiracy by a group of individuals. The bill also amends article 147 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which increases fines for breaches of technical regulations. Colleagues, the adoption of this bill will provide more opportunities, powers, but also responsibilities to law enforcement authorities in order to effectively protect the interests of the State and, above all, people. Please support the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u74	Thank you. The Committee on Law Enforcement is invited by Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich. Please, Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u75	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on increasing liability for damage to telecommunications networks (registration number 4497). The bill proposes a new edition of article 360 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code and article 147 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences. The responsibility for deliberately damaging telecommunications, networks, and regulations for the protection of technical equipment, buildings, and telecommunications networks is duly established if these actions have resulted in or could lead to disruptions to the normal functioning of these networks. Yes, for purposeful damage or destruction of technical equipment, buildings, telecommunications networks, article 360 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code imposes liability in the form of a fine of 200 to 500 untaxed minimum citizens' incomes, namely today between 3,400 and 8,500 dollars or repairs for up to 2 years, or restrictions on the freedom to a term of up to 3 years for the same activities performed repeatedly or under the previous contract of persons who are socially insecure. A fine of 500 to 1,000 untaxed minimum citizens' income, ranging from 8,500 to 17,000 dollars, or a three to five-year sentence. And for the actions indicated, if they have caused the loss of life or other serious consequences, they will be deprived of their liberty for a term of eight to 12 years. In discussing the bill, the committee noted that the review of this rule would have a positive impact on the country's telecommunications of infrastructure, improve the safety of society and national security, and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill 4497 in the first reading on the ground. The bill also supports the Committee on Information and Communications, the National Commission for State Regulations in the field of communication and information, the Telecommunications Chamber of Ukraine, the Internet Association of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u76	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Didenko Igor Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u77	Please pass the word to Alexander Danchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support all of this impeccable bill for the state, because the issue is not just about damage to the power lines or just about damage to the cable, it's not just about damage to the equipment, it's a matter of national security. In 2008, article 188 was decriminalized and criminalized for damage to electrical lines. What's going on now? On the one hand, someone seems to be simply stealing the cable and putting it on metal for copper, but on the other hand, the whole areas remain unconnected, the frontal areas remain unrelated, and parts of our army remain unrelated. So it's the cybersecurity of the state. What the enemy does now if someone doesn't understand. By damaging the electrical lines for which only 180 or 200 bracelets are currently being punished, they are thus investigating how our boys’ communications systems at the ATO and the Ministry of Defense work. So I'm asking a lot of support for this bill, it's not just a question of 500 to 1,000 dollars of damage to telecom operators, it's a matter of national security. I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u79	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Sugonako Alexander Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u80	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u81	In itself, this bill, according to lawyers, particularly national MPs, is an anomaly, because it predicts that the cable that suddenly fell under your feet, and the state of the network, you know what the situation is, so you're going to be criminally responsible. At the same time, we are concerned that such a small number of national deputies are interested in speaking out on this issue and stressing the need to modernise Ukrainian energy, modernize Ukrainian science. For example, in 2030 the Chinese plan to develop and create a network of quantum connections and the possibilities of quantum teleportation from Earth to Space. This year a quantum satellite is launched. The People's Front is laughing with other members of the coalition. But over the past few years, while you're in power, you've had every opportunity to put on your knees Ukrainian science, Ukrainian education, and give ordinary Ukrainians a new educational, scientific and modernization course. In this way all the countries of Europe developed, without exception. Without this important ingredient, there will be no new modern - day Ukraine. So the Social-Democratic Party calls for an active coalition, government and the President to step up, maximize efforts to give the country new contemporary scientific realities, new economic, industrial, energy solutions. Put the country on new lines of modernization and development. This will be a real catalyst for the reform and development of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u82	Thank you. I'm the only one who's going to remind me that the law says deliberate damage to the cable, deliberate damage to the cable. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now from Fatherland, Helen Schrum is handing over Sergey Eutushka. Please, Mr. Sergei. I'll give it to you later, yeah. Turn on Sergei Evtushka's microphone, Ukraine is waiting for Sergey Evtushka to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u83	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Thank you, Mr. Head. I'll tell you what, dear colleagues, that the Fatherland faction will support this bill. And what is in this draft act? So there are improvements in legislation that define responsibility for violations as protection of technical means, well, of course, and damage to them. It's about the cables. I want to get stats in the last few years right away. Fighting cable theft. During 2014, 6578 cable thefts were recorded in the state, 12.1 percent more than in the 13th year. Thus, 688 km of cable was stolen. It's at a time when we have a war actually from the aggression of the Russian Federation. And I want to say that the disruption of telecommunications networks is one of the priority tasks of these terrorist groups operating in our territory. The bill proposes to increase fines for intentional damage or destruction of technical equipment, the construction of telecommunications networks, if these actions have caused or could lead to disruption of the normal operation of these networks, provides for a fine of 200 to 500 untaxed minimum incomes for citizens. So it's increasing. There is also a fine added to the suggestion that the same actions are repeatedly punishable by a fine of 500 to 1,000 untaxed minimums or by a waiver of three to five years. So "Paternity" understands the complexity and importance of this bill. That's why we support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u84	Thank you. Colleagues, we've got two shows now and in two minutes we're moving on to making a decision. Please, from the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk and Maxim Burbak of the People's Front. Mr. Igor, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u85	Oleg Láška's Radical Party will support this bill. We think it's really necessary to fight in times of war with these diversions that are taking place against telecommunications networks. But at least a diversion is the function of the Kremlin's propagandist column in the form of the Inter Channel. And our faction calls for a temporary commission of inquiry to verify how this Kremlin Rupe and various puppets like Nardep Chaplin are pouring dirt on the Ukrainians from this channel, as is the propaganda of the Russian world. All of this has to be investigated, the owners are held accountable, and the Inter Channel is nationalized.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u86	Thank you. And the head of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will support this bill, especially when it comes to deliberate cable damage. And this young sloth should finally be brought to justice for deliberately damaging the doors of the Poltav region. And by the way, when this Moscow, the Kremlin, the Lionskin can, is in the lava of the coalition, you have to finally contact our young people that they finally invented this teleportation, and that person in the expanse needs to be sent back to the Kremlin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u88	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. Please come into the hall. One more minute of Semimenach. One minute, Roman Sergiyovich Semenich, while they're in the hall, please take up jobs, colleagues. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u89	Dear colleagues. There is no word in this law about politics. This law has a human interest, an interest in national security, including critical infrastructure. And I am convinced that this is the kind of law that should unite the hall. The other one. I want to develop the fears of our individual colleagues, which may inadvertently cause some damage to criminal responsibility. Once again, I would like to read the article of the Criminal Code, which is amended: article 360, “Intentional damage to telecommunications networks”. So in any case, there is no violation of rights, interests, ordinary citizens, but it will allow law enforcement officials to be more effective in resisting these types of crimes, infringing on this particular article and protecting people's interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u90	Thank you. And let's move on to making a decision. And I am voting on the draft Law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to increase liability for damage to telecommunications networks (No. 4497). Colleagues, please back up, please vote. It is indeed not a law on politics, and it must unite the entire room. Please support, please vote, vote, colleagues. [[17:44:51]] For 213 I'll be back. Please, I can see we're not there. Take your time. Take your seats. Please take your seats and come into the hall. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take up jobs and I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law (4497). Please vote for the return, please support. Vote, colleagues, please support, please vote. Vote. [[17:45:45.]] For 209 It's even smaller than it used to be. Let's do the factions. Turn on the factions so we can figure out what's going on. Colleagues, will the committee be back in the hall? I'm making the next proposal to send the bill to the committee for re-reading. Is that how it's supported? I ask you to support the proposal of Law 4497 to send to the committee for the re-reading of the first reading. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:46:37]] For 224 Colleagues, please take your seats. We will now return to the committee. Please take up jobs. I'll put my first motion on the vote, go back to 4497, and then I'll put it back. Please vote return to 4497. Please vote, please support, vote. Make sure we don't lose the bill. [[17:47:16]] For 226 Back, 226. My colleagues, I'm going to put you back on the committee first. Let's support this proposal, colleagues, let's mobilize. And I'm making a proposal, draft Law 4497, to send to the committee for re-reading. Please vote, please support, vote, colleagues, every vote matters. Please support, vote, support. Yes, again to the committee. [[17:47:56]] For 222 We're not there. I'll put it back on. But please, colleagues, if this is a political position, let me know. I'm asking you to take jobs right now, and I'm going to put it back on the way back, and then it's a repeat to the steering committee, it's not even an acceptance as a basis. And I'm voting on a proposal, a draft law, to go back to draft Law 4497. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:48:41]] For 226 Back, 226. Now I'm putting a committee to work, don't leave the hall, but you see every voice matters. Why? I'm voting on a motion to draft Law 4497 to send to the committee for the re-reading. Please vote, please support. Vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[17:49:22]] For 228 Decision taken. Colleagues, we have yet another bill to consider, this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for the Development of the Software Industry (No. 6160). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[17:49:53]] For 172 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Brovchenko Yuri Petrovich. Yuri Petrovich, please to the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u91	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The bill provides for quality performance of defined tasks, plans to support the development of the Ukrainian software industry through the development of three-year plans for the development of the Ukrainian software industry. The project amends the Ukrainian Law on State Support for the Development of the Software Production Industry in part of the development of three-year plans for the development of the software industry instead of one-year, clarifying the central executive authority responsible for the preparation of forms of State support and plans to support the development of the Ukrainian software industry. Ukraine. The adoption of the bill will enable medium-term planning and effective development of the software industry through timely preparation and implementation of planned measures. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u92	Thank you very much. Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich is invited to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u93	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It's a very simple bill, but it's very important. We all know that Ukraine is moving towards the modern economy. We're all talking about digital economy. To move with the world and build a new economy, we need to change our legislation. Any innovative technological project, it can't be less than three years old. What's going on now? We have an annual plan, and it's a good bill that can be implemented over 3-5 years, not a bill, but a technology project. Financing is set for one year, spending money, and then changing officials, unfortunately. Because you know why we don't have innovative projects in Ukraine? So the life of our official is much less than the life of this innovative project. And for the next year, we're changing, we're running new tenders again, we're changing politics. And so the costs that were spent in the first year, they're 80 percent lost, nothing is done, we're running a new technology project, we're spending new costs, and so no project is completed, the funds are used ineffectively, they just go to the sand. There's something to be done about it. And it's medium-term planning, and here we're talking about three-year planning, it's able to use the funds effectively and have real projects in the state. I am very much asking you to support this bill. Please support, this is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u94	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Eutusek Sergei is passing Alona Shkrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u95	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, this is really a very simple bill. I'm surprised to see from the Cabinet of Ministers the bill literally goes into two lines where two things change: the first one changes the annual plan to a three-year one and changes, and the name of the organ itself becomes precise. Yeah. Colleagues, when we're talking about state support, some strategy for the development of the Ukrainian software industry, isn't this bill going to help us strategically develop our software industry? Well, when I see drafts from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine that are being worked on by whole departments that are being written by lawyers, shouldn't this be a comprehensive bill with a comprehensive strategy that will change some fundamental things in order to develop our innovations in the state and develop this strategy fully? Would our innovations and software production of Ukraine help to change from a one-year plan to a three-year-old? My colleagues, I picked up because I was very interested in this bill, and I picked up and looked at when these plans were adopted, and how effective or ineffective their implementation was. So the 2015 Plan was adopted on April 8, 2015. What kind of plan could this be? The 2016 plan was adopted on September 8, 2016, four months to be implemented. Well, do you think it's a reform if you change your one-year pace for three years and make a plan for years? So this is a complex problem in bureaucracy, in public service reform, in the reform of the Cabinet of Ministers, in strategy at all, and in the absence of strategic vision, not in changing the two figures in the law. That's why we won't be supporting it right now. We're waiting for a comprehensive bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u96	Thank you. Self-help, Lavrick Oleg Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u97	Please pass the word to Roman Semensi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u98	Please, we can go from the rostrum, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u99	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, if we're talking about real support for the IT sector in Ukraine and we want this sector to become a real driver of our country's modern economy, I want to take advantage of the opportunity of the presence of government representatives, parliament, from this high platform to say just the following things that would really strengthen the IT sector. The first is to stop any pressure on the IT branch today. Because, I'm sorry, for the new power that wanted to live in a new way, the pressure on the IT business just increased. We have dozens of actual cases every month, when there are illegal attacks on IT companies, the servers are being removed. And the best protection for the IT sector would be the adoption of a bill to significantly restrict the removal of servers and other technologies in the IT sector. The second is education. We need to review the principles of education, the preparation of human resources for the IT sector. For comparison. Today, in small Estonia, where the population of 1 million 300, there are a little less than 100,000 people in the IT sector. In Ukraine, in the 40 million people, we now have only 125 000 Freelancers active in the IT sector today. The only way out is for 4-5 years significantly, at least 250,000 to increase IT employees only, more faithfully, by increasing public procurement in higher education institutions. The next thing they ask at each meeting is to ensure that tax legislation is stable, especially in terms of wages. Because every budget process, every budget night, makes them sick from the instability we have. The next is a reform of the regulation of intellectual property transfer rights, which will enable value added and the creation of real products in Ukraine. And the last. It's creating real conditions for a private-state partnership. Now, it's a list of these measures that will really ensure the steady development of the IT sector. And if it's even shorter: the smaller the state is going to be in IT business, the better the IT business will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u100	Thank you. From Peter Dustenka's Block, Capplin Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u101	Unfortunately, our Social-Democratic Party claims that the ghost of government populism is being sailed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yes, combining a European post-industrial renaissance strategy with a digital economy is an unalterable platform for economic reforms in our country. At the same time, in planning appropriate large-scale, global systemic steps, the government must take into account the principles announced by the President of Ukraine in this position, and by the Prime Minister of Ukraine when we chose him here, the project approach. The Social-Democratic Party requires that the government, the Ministry of Profiles, bring us here first the strategy for the development of the sector, then the concept of its development, the programme for its development, the clear projects with expenditure and the responsibility for the development of the sector concerned. We need to know and understand clearly, and most importantly, we need to report to the common people what will be the schedule of appropriate reforms in the field and how much taxpayers' money will be spent on the relevant information breakthrough, the scientific breakthrough in this area, in this sector of the economy. In response to the accusations of the leader of one of the factions, members of the coalition, I want to say that in order for Sergey Kaplin and Alexander Sugonjako to leave the coalition, you just need a member of your party, one of the leaders of your party, the head of the Supreme Council to read out a statement that has been on his desk for a year. We are ready to go on our own. Kaplan will be elected president, we'll go to parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u102	All you have to do is figure out which country. Colleagues, it's 6:00, I'm continuing the meeting. Now, two more acts of the Opposition Block and the People's Front, then we move on to the decision-making process. So in two or three minutes, everyone please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Dobrenkov Alexander Valeriovich, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u103	Regrettably, Ukrainian citizens, what is now going on in the hall, it is more like mudslides, MPs who are discussing a bill that is important enough for the country to develop the software industry, and they are turning it into some sort of Sabbath, into some kind of a joke about some political controversy. But as for the substance of the bill. Unfortunately, the more bills come from a valid coalition to reform all sectors of social life, the better life is not becoming Ukrainian citizens. This will also apply to medical reform, pension reform, and land reform. It is now proposed that the software industry be reformed. Unfortunately, this bill is evidence of the absence of a systematic and farsighted view of power in the development of this dual sector. With regard to the basic mechanisms that could be proposed instead of this three-year plan, which essentially will not change anything in principle. And we have to admit that this bill, even its adoption right now, is not going to make the situation in this area any better. As far as education is concerned, perhaps. As for the corruption of some kind of pressure on the software industry, maybe. But according to my strong belief, a major step that should be taken by urgently valid authorities is the fundamental fundamental reform of the system of taxation of software subjects. Now it's said that it needs to be reformed, it needs to be developed, and why then, you've canceled the special tax regime. 5 percent of VAT, 0 percent of income taxes are tax incentives that are necessary for the development of appropriate operators in this field.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u104	Please, 10 seconds. You know, 18.05, people are just going to split up. Ten seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u105	Many programmers now emigrate to other countries, not because they lack some basic knowledge, but because the state has not created conditions for the conduct of the mentioned business, such as tax enforcement, tax liberalisation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u106	Thank you. So, the closing statement, I remind you that I've resumed the session for 15 minutes, now the closing statement by Maxim Burbak, and in a minute we're going to the vote, invite everyone to the hall. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that the People's Front faction will support this bill. And I'd like to complement the classics who said that the ghost of communism is wandering around Europe, so this ghost came to this hall, and it's the ghost of Ljovczyn, Firthash, and all of his sponsors. And when he requires the government to put something here, we approach our coalition colleagues, finally release this person who betrayed the common people by turning on the red flag. Let him go to Moscow, where two of his masters are sitting, one is in Mausoleum, and one is sitting in a cabinet next to him, and even there is a run for the President, let the man who lives in the passage through teleportation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-20-m1.u108	So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues, please take up jobs, prepare for decision-making. You're ready, aren't you? I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for the Development of the Software Production Industry to develop three-year plans to support the development of the software industry, number 6160, on the basis of a colleague. Please vote, please support. We're voting 6160 on the basis. Although the committee is offering a foundation and in general, I'm going to lay the groundwork first. Vote, colleagues, please. [[18:05:53]] For 190 I'll make the next suggestion to send to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. So I'm voting on a proposal to draft Law 6160 to send to the committee for a re-reading. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[18:06:26]] For 193 And the final proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to draft Law 6160, please vote, please support. [[18:06:54]] For-187 The decision is not taken. Draft Law 6160 has been rejected. On it. At that, colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. We had a hard day, emotionally exhausted, but we made important decisions for the country. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue our meeting here in the Supreme Council. So I ask everyone tomorrow at 10 o'clock to come to the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
