ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u1	Good morning! I'm asking the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for registration. Can we have the registration? We can. Well, then, colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the morning session. Please register. [[10:02:47]] 339 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputy Vadim Grigorovich Nesterenko. Let's welcome him. And also, colleagues, today is the international volunteer day. Volunteering has become a real Ukrainian phenomenon and a sign of modern - day Ukraine. And during the Dignity Revolution, and with the beginning of Russian aggression, we all witnessed the birth of a national volunteer movement. Ukrainians side-by-side joined forces to help out, everyone did and did what they could. Volunteers deliver essentials to the front, knit mask nets, sew clothing for the military, prepare conservations, and even dismantle the armory. Volunteers are the brave men and women who volunteered to the front and saved Ukrainian statehood on the most difficult, deadly days for Ukraine. Praise the volunteers and glory of Ukraine, fellows! [[Applause]] I want to remind you that we're starting 30 minutes for the performances of authorized factions. And then, I emphasize, colleagues, then we move on to the ratification issue. So, colleagues, right after the factions, we're moving on to the issue of ratification, and so I'm asking for maximum mobilization in the room. And I'm asking you to record the performance. And I want to remind you that it's forbidden to put posters and banners in the hall during the session. I would like to refer to the National Deputies and remind them of the Rules, which prohibits the placement of posters during meetings. Please record statements from factions and groups. From the People's Front, Burbak Maksim Yuriovich is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, congratulations. I want to start with the very main issue this week, and I want to assure you that our faction will support the state budget for 2018. We have some comments, but in general our budget proposals have been taken into account. First of all, it's the preservation of subsidies and energy efficiency programs or the "hot loans" program that were established under the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk. For the People's Front, it's important that in the 2018 budget, military funding and defence industry are preserved. We believe that 5 percent of the gross domestic product for defence and security should be funded from the general budget in 2018. The salaries of the military need to be increased constantly. Next. The People's Front urges the faction not to delay the consideration of Bill 7163 on the restoration of the territorial integrity of our state. The bill has been in preparation for the second reading for two months, and its consideration cannot continue. We demand a bill to the session room for final approval. I'm going to remind you that the position of the People's Front is consistent and I understand that Russia should finally be recognized as an aggressor. Secure Donbas, including the same status as the temporarily occupied territories. Russia must bear full responsibility for its crimes on Ukrainian soil. This position of Ukraine is entirely based on international law. Next. The People's Front faction requires a report in Parliament from SAP, NABU, GPU and SBU. We gave the Head of Parliament a corresponding statement, which we signed yesterday with our coalition colleagues. The Supreme Council, as the legislative body that created the NABU, the SAP, is in control of the activities of the GPU and the BAF, may and should finally hear an explanation of the circus, where many specialities, prohibited receptions, but no results are available. Explain to us that we know what the scream and the noise are for. It has long been evident that a group of demagogs are using anticorruption reforms to satisfy their own political ambitions. In the pursuit of the pianist, they forgot why we had launched anticorruption innovations. This was not to entertain the public at all. People get tired of this theater, which is why you lose the trust of society. Look at sociology, it's overturned by anti-corruption and other reforms. The People's Front has fought for anti-corruption reform in parliament, and we are proud of it. But anticorruption innovations were introduced, not for individual characters, but for the legitimate fight against corruption. That is why our faction today is voting in favour of calling in the Parliament representatives of the NABU, the SAP, the GPU and the SBU. And finally. Yesterday, the Second Forum of United Communities took place in Kiev. I extend great greetings from the heads of OTG to the people’s deputies who support decentralization and the desire not to delay with the bills necessary for the development of decentralization reform and the voluntary unification of the territorial communities. On Thursday, December 7, we will celebrate the Day of Local Self - Rule. The People's Front proposes to adopt Bill 6466 on this day and allow the territorial communities to unite with the cities of regional importance. This will be a real gift from Parliament to the united communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u3	From the "Block of Peter Prashenko" the word is given to the head of the faction Arthur Gerasimov. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Yes, indeed, the main task for Parliament this week is to adopt the 2018 budget in a timely manner. Not only the budget, but also the budget block for its successful implementation. I want to say again that we're talking about a budget in which we're going to increase the financial independence of communities again, because almost half of the funds in this consolidated budget are made up of local budgets. I want to remind you that thanks to the efforts of the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko, the road repair experiment initiated by the President of Ukraine will be continued. The following year, more than 45 billion dollars are foreseen for repairs and construction of highways. The military has been refinanced, and it is planned to strengthen the social protection of vulnerable populations. Also in 2018, the Presidential Law on Improving the Quality of Agricultural Medicine will be implemented with the funds provided for in the budget. Once again, I would like to take a separate look at what is happening today around the law enforcement agencies of Ukraine. Taking into account what is happening and how it is happening, given that the evidence received today and the searches that everyone with us read with you this morning are based on the fact that there are reasonable suspicions that Saakashvili was financed by the representatives of Januković's team, particularly Kurchenka, I invite all the deputies in this room to vote in favour of the invitation of GPU's, SBA, NABU and the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office to the House of Parliament. And I think, aside from the issues that we were going to consider and invite the heads of law enforcement, we also have to consider the situation that is happening this morning. Honorary colleagues, the task and the key task of law enforcement agencies is to fight corruption, not to waste time on quarrels and intrigues among themselves. So I ask everyone to vote and invite the heads of law enforcement to this evening's meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u5	Thank you, Mr. Arthur. Please, from the will of the people, the national MP Labazük is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u6	Mr. Head, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! A long time in society: whether or not there is a market for the earth. Today, in this matter, Ukraine is actually walking in a minefield. One mistake is recklessness, and all the agrarian potential that we have will be destroyed. At one point, we can just burn down the power of our nation, conquer the status of the inhabitants of Europe, and not only the whole world. As in the MP's "will of the people" and the profile agrarian committee, Ukraine today is not ready to lift the moratorium on land sales. My position: the moratorium must continue. This is why Bill 7350 was introduced. The experts in the field are unanimous: to open up the land market, it is necessary to complete the inventory of agricultural land, to conduct a national monetary assessment and to improve the registration procedure and, above all, to create a level playing field so that the owner of the land really feels like the owner. Earth reform is very thin matter. We need to minimize empty talk, eliminate political speculation around us. True, it was the pyar on this subject that actually slowed down the process of adopting the necessary legislation. The land must be preserved by the Ukrainians. Therefore, action is needed today if we are not to cause a collapse on the ground. Because there are people who want to sell the land, there are people who don't want to sell it. Our job is to provide a level playing field for all players. The same is true of forest management. Only recently at the Kabmin meeting was the project of a sustainable development strategy and institutional reform of the Ukrainian forestry industry approved until 2022. It is fundamentally different from the one that went through public hearings and was approved by the professional professions. It turns out that the Cabinet of Ministers will become a new owner, a new warden in the forest sector. Once again, there is a risk of the destruction of state forestry enterprises as a self - control entity. Therefore, I believe that the forest management reform strategy should be fully reviewed, taking into account proposals from public organisations. The MPs insist that such important economic reforms in Ukraine should be carried out only with a cold mind and a hot heart. These are key positions, the issue of Ukraine's national security. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, from the Opposition Block, Alexander Wilkul is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u8	Dear people of Ukraine! Another year of destruction ends. What does he remember about humans? Genocidal, truly genocidal reforms. Medically, the closure of hospitals, the reduction of doctors, the introduction of paid medicine, are already much cheaper to die than to be treated. Education: closing schools, shortening the curriculum, turning Ukrainians into low-skilled workers, and banning them from learning in their native language has caused conflict with all neighbours, even with EU countries. Retirement: Fooled the poor elderly by throwing small sums at them. And not all have received any promotions that have been taken three times because of inflation. For example, military pensioners and IMF pensioners receive fewer than printers. Above all, millions of Ukrainians were left behind in the future because of the actual increase in retirement age. And now the authorities are proposing the same destructive budget for 2018, the budget of the police state, which will make people even more beggars. We will not vote in favour of such an approach. We've made the right changes, actually our version of the state budget. There is a need to support industry, to support the economy, to make work worthwhile, to be paid, to be worthy of pensions and to pay normal taxes. We also need to leave the financing of the silos at least at 2017 level. Then there will be money to actually raise the minimum pension to 3,000,500 dollars and the minimum wage to 5,000 dollars. After our pressure, however, some self - preservation instincts have worked, and some have already said that we should raise to 4,000 to 100. That's better than the money you're making today. But we're saying that it's impossible for you to do that if you don't adopt our laws on new industrialization to support the economy. We are also firmly against Bill 7163, which we are told is about the reintegration of Donbas. In fact, it doesn't bring any reintegration, at best it preserves the situation, or it can exacerbate the conflict. We are once again saying that we are the only party, the only faction in this Parliament that really wants to end the war and has a program like to do it six months after the victory in the parliamentary elections. And on January 1, 2018, a moratorium on the sale of land ends. And he still hasn't been continued. We realize that the authorities want to sell out the last thing that remains in the people and in Ukraine, and we are against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u9	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u10	We're against selling land. And I passed Bill 5241 on amending the Land Code to prohibit the sale of agricultural land. And we only have a month to block the sale of land. The moratorium that is being introduced today and which is being proposed for further introduction is also not bad, but it only partially solves the issue. We suggest we completely block it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u11	Thank you. I can't take it anymore. Others will ask too. These are equal opportunities for everyone. Thank you. From the Radical Party, please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u12	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Last week, most of our deputies worked in areas, interacted with people. A key concern for Ukrainians is how to survive, where to find a job, and how to feed your family. All these problems are for us, and for these questions, not for any other, secondary ones, we're trying to find the answer. Our demands for authority are simple. When the President declares yesterday that the minimum wage should be 4,100, it is certainly a pleasure for us that the President finally joins our fight to raise Ukrainian wages, it is certainly a pleasure for us that the authorities have finally realized that the only way to get the country out of poverty is to raise Ukrainian income and trade in Ukrainian products rather than national interests and not raw materials. But 4100 is small. Our demand, the Radical Party teams, 5,000 minimum wages, which must be in order to satisfy at least the basic interests of the people. The minimum labour pension is 3,000 dollars a month, because millions of people, especially in the village, worked their whole lives, did not get a decent pension raise because they had low wages. And we demand that the government settle this issue in the next year's budget and anticipate an increase in pensions, primarily for village workers. The key to restoring the national economy is our bill, "Buy Ukrainians, pay Ukrainians." What do we see in the daytime? That bill stands "in a pig's voice," there is a great risk that consideration will not come to it today. Why? I called on Parliament's leadership: put it in order for us to look at it. They put God where he knows. Why? Because 26 years used to trade national interests in Ukraine, led the country to pens, people to poverty, trade raw materials, and God knows what instead of making a strong country. Strong Ukraine will only be when there is a strong economy. Who's going against our bill? "Buy Ukrainian, pay the Ukrainians!"? Those who are used to trading national interests are those who have driven Ukrainians abroad, those who have forced the separation of families that Ukrainians cannot find earnings in Ukraine and who are forced to go out to travel around the world to make a living. Today and in Parliament, and beyond, there are many people who want Ukraine to continue to be a poor raw material colony, who still want us to get together worldwide for loans that want to trade land, they want to trade Ukrainian peasants, Ukrainian nadras instead of defending Ukraine's national interests. The Radical Party team is on guard for Ukraine's national interests, Ukrainians for work and a decent salary.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u13	Please, from. Please, from the Self-Help faction, the leader of the Oleg Barresuk faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, scary things are happening in the country. But let's start with the budget. As a result of the pressure and fear of people in 2014, the state went to lower tax pressure, and I hope former Prime Minister Yatzenuk remembers the conversation of Berezuk, Giurgia and him in his office on the night of December 29, 2014. Yes, tax pressure dropped below 40, the economy responded by increasing. But this success was noted by the oligarchic click and saddled him. She's been redistributing it for the benefit of the oligarchi-cheese mafia in Ukraine. How can this be proved? It's very simple. So far, no tax has been imposed on the resulting capital, no transfer pricing is still in place to date, so to this day, Rosheni candy is a subsidy for the oligarchs, and slavery for the people. This is an oligarchic clique that has settled the Ukrainian economy and society. What did she leave behind? I left people a meager pension and a pseudoreform. She left people unfunded medicine and education, and promises, promise-winning, stupid joy. But at the same time, bureaucracy is financed and the police machine is financed. What does a police car do? He serves his despot faithfully. Arrests on the streets, kidnapping, this morning's ex-president of Georgia Saakashvili. It's not just tyranny, it's disgusting. And today those who now smile in my face will be next, because tyranny never saves those who serve it faithfully in the first stage. You'll be next, you've passed laws that you've returned to the Attorney General's Office by 1960. The tyranny is coming, but Ukrainian society has never succumbed to tyranny, even though the price of this resistance was very high. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, those soldiers, the soldiers who fought in 2014 and today are in prison because they fight corruption, do not forgive this Ukrainian institutional state, which does not protect them. Let me tell you more, today that I see on television what happens to democracy, I can't sit in this room right now. I'm going to go personally and stand next to Miho Saakashvili because it's a crime against Ukrainian sovereignty. Join us!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u15	The word is from the "Fatherland" faction Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that on January 1, 2018, a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land is due. It's not just a moratorium. This opens up, in fact, a broad road for 42 million hectares of land, accounting for 72 percent of Ukraine’s territory, in order to actually deprive the Ukrainian nation of this wealth, this treasure. I want you not to go after all the propaganda tricks that are being used on television channels today, when experts, politicians, political scientists -- all sold to the one or the interested -- directly say that selling Ukrainian land is a great deal of happiness, and that's all we have. It's a lie that needs to be stopped. We insist that, literally now, immediately considered by the Supreme Council Committee today, there is a bill that was tabled by the Fatherland to continue the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land for five years. And at the same time, give the owners the right to sell their pies at market value, not at a speculative low price, sell the land to the state, sell their pies if people want to sell their pies, but not allow the land mafia to own the land, starting on January 1, 2018. We also insist that a bill to continue the moratorium on agricultural land be introduced on Thursday's budget bill with the first question. The point is that we have the necessary number of votes in the hall on Thursday morning. Because on the Conciliation Council yesterday, we raised it as Fatherland, and except for one faction of WFP, all the other factions supported the Thursday morning review of the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land, the vote. It's important. If we don't, we're going to start in the country, in fact, the great civil war of the agrarian mafia, which has already usurped the land in its own hands, against farming. So now, as is happening right now, when farmers are killed, they get crippled when they get resuscitated after raids. In addition, elections to united territorial communities are now under way.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u17	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u18	And one of our candidates for the OTG head in the Odessa area was deprived of their citizenship and didn't register our list -- Hasan Hasanov. I just want to say to everyone right now, either we're protecting the land from sale on Thursday, or the country won't. No, the sale of agricultural land!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u19	And the final performance from the Rebirth Party is Bondar Victor Vasilovich. And, colleagues, I'll remind you, after that, there'll be a law on ratification. And I'm asking everyone to come to the hall, and I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall. I'll give you three minutes, Mr. Victor. I ask the heads of factions and the secretariat to invite deputies to the hall. Please, three minutes, Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u20	Thank you, Your Honor Andrey Volodymyrovich. My dear colleagues, I think every Ukrainian already understands that the most important document in the country that is being adopted at the end of the year is the country's budget for the following year. The budget determines the vector, the direction of the country's movement, and what is the priority for the government next year. If we analyze the budget for 2018, which the government has offered us, we see that we have practically out of the country's development vector industry, the support for domestic production has fallen out, the creation of new jobs has fallen out, and the budget is focused only on increasing the financial security of law enforcement and solving some social problems, but it doesn't completely solve any issues related to health reform, education reform, the judicial system, agrarian issues, especially what we're saying all the time, there is no support for domestic production. That is why we demand that the government approve a programme to support domestic production, domestic industrial enterprises. We demand that the program be conducted and that the credits be approved for the purchase of new equipment, for the creation of jobs, for the creation of new industrial objects. This is the only viable way for the country to develop, and this will enable it to make money, and then raise additional wages, pensions and minimum income for the population. We also reviewed the social bloc that the government is offering us. And we demand that the next year's minimum subsistence minimum be raised at least twice and brought to 3,000 50 dollars, because it makes a lot of calculations coming from the population. We demand 8 billion dollars for social assistance to families with children. Our bill, which has been registered here, and we've been talking about it for a long time, number 6063-d, has long been considered in the hall, and it's going to provide an opportunity to support Ukrainian families, young families and children who are now born financially, and to allow families to put them on their feet. In addition, we demand that through the budget, we spend loans for farmers, for industry, for new agrarian programs. In addition, we require that we do not translate into local budgets the financing of colleges and technicians. Today, there are 426 in Ukraine. We're counting on it to be funded from the government budget. Because it must be a guarantee of the state of creation of new professionals who will come to the labour market today. And this is the only source of funding that should be provided, not to extend funding to the local level, and then to demand that local authorities finance CTU through decentralization. We also demand that health care finance the treatment of Ukrainians abroad. Where there is no possibility in Ukraine, treatment. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u21	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u22	Where there is no treatment in Ukraine, Ukraine has to treat its citizens abroad. And this has to be a government program funded. We need to increase the funding of state programs for prosthetics, the treatment of hearing impaired children, the allocation of additional funds for the reconstruction of the National Institute for Cancer and the financing of the National Institute for Cerebral Surgery of Amos. Because today it is one of the biggest problems and diseases of the Ukrainian nation, today a huge number of people are dying from these problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u23	Thank you, Victor. Dear colleagues, two factions have come to the fore from the Self-Help faction and the Fatherland faction. And two factions require, not a performance, but a real half-hour break. So, colleagues, I'm calling it a half an hour until 11:00, so I'm gonna take a break. Heads of factions, third floor in the towers, please come to a brief meeting. And I want to remind you that the posters are not supposed to be in the hall. And I hope that after the break of the posters, there won't be any posters in the hall like we agreed. So at 11 o'clock, I ask everyone to come to the hall after a half-hour break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, a meeting with the factions' heads is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I would like to report on the outcome of the meeting that I received a call yesterday from Peter Poshenko's Block and the People's Front, suggesting an invitation to a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council and a hearing from the heads of law enforcement and the Attorney General's Office and the Security Service and the NAB and the SAP. And at the faction heads' meeting, everyone agreed to this position that at four o'clock we're going to invite the head of the department to a hearing in Parliament. But to do that, we have to vote, 150 votes, and only then will we move on to the agenda. But it's going to be an important ratification right now, so I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. So that's the logic now. Three minutes of the show is the summation of our meeting. Then the vote in favour of the Force in the Hall. And only after that ratification issue. Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, at the request of the Self-Help faction and the Fatherland faction, a break was announced, where all the faction leaders or factions gathered and discussed the situation that is now unfolding around the President of Georgia, Michael Saakashvili. We are all different political forces, no one has changed fair, fair political competition in the country. But even if we are different political forces, no one has the right in a free European democratic Ukraine after two revolutions, after the mass of repression in front of the entire civilised world, to have a case against the President of Georgia. And that's the solution, otherwise it's impossible to call it. When they broke into his home, preventing lawyers from allowing national MPs, they forced the president of Ukraine to leave the house. Georgia, I'm sorry, it wouldn't be bad if Ukraine, the President of Georgia went out on the roof of the house and in the eyes of the entire civilized world announced that he was going to crawl from the roof down, because it would be his protest against the political settlement that was going on with him. Dear friends, we can be here in different ways with the President of Georgia, but no one gives a right to be seen in the entire civilized world practically commit the political terror that has become the face of Ukraine today. We have no right to have that face. And that's why we arranged for a joint meeting of representatives and faction leaders at 4:00 to call on the leaders of the power structures, the Attorney General and others, including the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, to hear an explanation of what's going on right now. And to put an end to this disgrace that the whole world is looking at online television, when people have now blocked the roads, they're up against the force. If people now announce self - incineration and fuel themselves, the Supreme Council is obliged to give that assessment, to declare a declaration, to accept a declaration condemning political terror, and to return to Europeanism, democracy, the rule of law. And we demand not only to invite the rapists, but to vote on the statement that the Supreme Council is not a party to these processes. Ukraine has no right to embarrass itself in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u26	Thank you. So, dear colleagues, I'd like you to take up your jobs. Now, I'm going to put to the vote a proposal from Peter Prashenko's Block and the People's Front political party. Once again, I was reminded that I had been approached by the heads of the deputies' factions, "Peter Prashenko's Block" and "The People's Front," with an invitation to the plenary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to listen to the heads of law enforcement. In accordance with articles 6, 34 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I am voting on the proposal to have a presence today at 4 p.m. at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to listen to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Deputy Prosecutor of Henprocuror, the Director of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor and the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. Colleagues, 150 votes to make this decision. I think the whole room will support this proposal, and I'm the first to put this question to the vote. So please support this proposal. Colleagues, please vote and please support. Vote. [[11:32:03]] For 217 Decision taken. And at 4 p.m., we're waiting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Security Service, the SAP and the NABU. The first before the speech will be invited by the Attorney General of Ukraine, Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich. So, colleagues, this is a question we voted on. I'll remind you that we finished last time. The draft Law on Ratification (0163) was not finalized. In order to remind us what the point was, I now invite the head of the Committee in foreign affairs of Hopko Hanna Mikolayevna to the report. And, colleagues, then we go to the vote, I ask everyone to stay in the workplace. We have a few questions about ratification and a security and defense unit. Please, Mrs. Anna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u27	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to say that there's a global asset recovery forum in Washington right now where the head of the NABU, Artem Sitnik, and also the Cold Man, are in this forum that our partners from Britain and the United States of America announced and invited six months ago. So I think today the appearance of the head of the NABU is actually impossible because it is officially in Washington. And I think that the issue of the return of assets to Ukraine, not only of Yanukovich's money, but of others, is still relevant. There are still Lazarenka's funds -- 200 million that are unreturned. And we have a huge question in general about the sanctions of such people as Ivanyushenko, the Richter, from whom sanctions have been lifted, and many others, such as Mr. Zločevski. So I think there's a lot of work to do with our Western partners so that we can finally recover all the stolen assets. Why is this important? Because there was a very disturbing announcement today from the U.S. Department of State -- and we are relying on the United States as a strategic ally to counter Russian aggression in order to support reforms in order for a peacekeeping mission to work -- and therefore we cannot steal with one hand, but with the other hand ask for help. So if we want to be a country with democratic values and transformations, we should honestly, without politicization, call everyone when they are in Ukraine, representatives of all anti-corruption organizations, have a serious conversation about what is going on, and act as statesmen, not call it some Latin American carnival with feathers. It's more like a mob show. And now I'm asking for the theme of our speech. We're taking another $150 million from the International World Bank. The question is, Where do we take these funds? The government can't absorb, and the last report of the Court of Auditors: only 49 percent of the funds that we've received since the Infrastructure Dignity Revolution, at the HKG, for energy efficiency, we use. So the call to the government: what is the order – where is the strategy of each sector, where is the institutional capacity? - before you take new credits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u28	Thank you. Grizzenko Alexander. Is there a room? Please remind us. One minute. And, colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote, colleagues. Please, Alexander Viktorovich, remind us of the substance of the bill, the people's deputies. Can you remind me for a minute of the importance of this ratification? And we've already had our discussion, so we can have another one. But the next thing you know, it's gonna be ratification again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, within the framework of the World Bank loan project, $150 million is planned for a long-term period of 35 years with an extended period of 4.5 years. Money will be used to finance small and medium-sized business exporters. Most importantly, there will be no government budget for this loan. The loan will be fully serviced and repaid by the Ukrainian Export and Import Bank. In addition, this is actually the only project that Ukraine is currently carrying out, which was approved by the World Bank, so a huge request to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u30	Thank you. Thank you. But since factions' heads require discussion, I'm going to include two in favour, two in favor. Please register so that we can resume our positions. Please two in, two in, two in. Kuprienko of the Radical Party passes the word to Victor Halasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u31	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies! The Radical Party faction has consistently advocated a waste of credit resources for the real economy. But what we're going to ratify today is that it will only lead to one: that the premiums will be given to low tech companies from the raw economy, from the old economy, because that's what happened in previous years. Unfortunately, when the government proposed ratifying this bill to Parliament today, it did not anticipate priorities, the government did not predict that credit resources should go exclusively to high-tech manufacturing. They have to go to machine building, aircraft building, wagon building, shipbuilding, and so on. This story has not been the new, respected colleagues, since 1997 an export support project, EDP, called $304 million, has been operating in Ukraine. So I'll let you know that these costs went mainly to an agro-industrial complex, and to a raw part of it, to make cement, to make plastic. There's no high-tech production, no support. That's why we can't do this ratification with you today, because it's going to feed the existing structure of the economy again. Dear colleagues, and credit policy, and tax policy, and regulatory policy are not just some neutral measures that we're taking with you. We need to adopt mechanisms that will change the structure of the economy from raw to finished production. Because that's how soon we're going to be the raw material of Europe and the human resources donor that we're almost now. That's why we can't ratify. To return to the government to take clear priority, which is only for high-tech production and then support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u32	Thank you. It's Pinzenick Victor from Peter Dustenk's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, what is the decision? It's not about the money for the budget where the budget was used, and then it stays alone with the repayment of the loan and the payment of the interest. This is a loan to the Ukrainian Bank that will be used to lend to the Ukrainian economy. So the projects themselves will provide both the return of the body of credit and the payment of interest. The interest rate for this loan is less than 3 percent. I think everyone understands that this is a great loan rate for today's conditions. Another important condition. Four and a half years is an extended period. And most important, perhaps. You know, the Ukrainian economy is suffering from a lack of long-term loans. The reason is pretty simple: banks don't have long liabilities, or more simply, Ukrainian banks don't have long resources, because deposits in Ukrainian banks are either current or up to one year. The credit that the Ukrainian bank receives today, Eximbank, is set at 35 years. This allows, opens up the possibility for Ukrainian banks to lend long-term loans to Ukrainian businesses. So I don't like the state guarantee. But this guarantee is guaranteed by lending efficient projects. So I ask my colleagues to support this project, it's a good project for the development of the Ukrainian economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u34	Thank you. Colleagues, there's gonna be a closing statement from the People's Front. There's gonna be two more speeches. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. From the People's Front, Levus Andrews.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u35	Please pass the word to Oleg the Medunice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u36	Oleg Medunica, People's Front, Sumi. Here, in this room, there's a lot of talk about support for a national producer, about industrial development, agriculture, IT technology in Ukraine. You go into any business and ask, what is the main problem now for entrepreneurs who want to develop businesses in Ukraine, create jobs and pay their taxes honestly? One of the main problems is the high credit rate that Ukrainian banks are lending to the Ukrainian business. Therefore, this agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development will allow Ukrainian businessmen to invest cheaper costs in the Ukrainian bank than they are currently in the credit market in Ukraine. This will provide additional jobs. This will leave Ukraine with the labour resources that are unfortunately leaving our country. Therefore, the People's Front faction will support the ratification of the agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and will call on colleagues in the session room to support this important decision for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u37	Thank you. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in a minute. Heads of factions please invite the deputies to the hall and prepare for the vote. One minute, Olena Schrum. Turn on the microphone, please. And please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u38	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, it's to be understood, 150 million dollars, really, under a small percentage. And it's stipulated in a contract for small and medium-sized businesses to support small and medium-sized businesses. Will this be supported by the Fatherland faction? Absolutely. We think that the economy in general needs to be built on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized businesses, and middle-sized businesses and middle-class businesses in the country. But, colleagues, I want to look at it more globally, I want to remind you of history. Mr. Mingarelli, Ambassador to Ukraine of the European Union, said that in the last three years, Ukraine had received 12 billion euros, 12 billion, to be developed, including strategies, state programmes, government administration, public service, small and medium-sized businesses. The Ukrainians didn't feel that money, colleagues. We want to understand the strategy that you're going to take up, what is the economic development strategy, where this money is going to be spent. And without a strategy, unfortunately, it's money to eat, because 150 million for small entrepreneurs is big money, and for a big monopolist to swallow it twice and that's it. And that's why we demand it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u39	Dates completed or not? No, it's not. Please, 10 seconds, finish. Don't trade. Turn on the Schrome microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u40	Thank you, Mr. Head. So for the big monopolies, it's going to be 150 million to swallow twice, twice, twice. And that's why we need to understand what the strategy is for using these funds, for whom they're going to be able to do that, and whether it's really going to go to small and medium-sized businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u41	You didn't say a vote. Colleagues, let's move on to the vote, move on to the decision-making process. So, colleagues, I see in our room we need to maximize our mobility. Can we vote? Everybody in place? Please, I'll wait another 30 seconds. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote and take up jobs so that we don't have to go back. Please don't leave the hall. It's an important ratification. Yeah, can we? Yeah, everybody's in place. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (Project on Long-Term Financing) between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (No. 0163) as proposed by the Committee as a whole. Please vote, please support 0163 as a whole. Vote! Please be supportive. [[11:45:53]] For 205 I'll put it back, colleagues, on my way back. If there are no votes. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall and invite the deputies into the hall. So, colleagues, I'm now going to propose to return to the draft Ratification Act. I'm asking you to get ready. I'm asking you to take up your jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for the proposal of draft law committee 0163. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please support the ratification. Please vote. We're backing it up. [[11:47:02]] For 202 Colleagues, if I were to return to the committee for further work? Turn around. No, we're done here. We've already discussed it twice. Colleagues, the next proposal envisaged by the Rules is to return to the Committee for further work. I think this can be brought together. Or the subject of the legislative initiative, then it will be the government. Will the subject fit? Well, then, colleagues. Then let's support this proposal so we don't crash. It's going to sound like this. This is to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further development. Are we supporting everyone, colleagues, so we don't lose the bill? Let's maximize it. And I'm proposing to draft Law 0163 to get the subject of the legislative initiative back on track. I'm asking everyone, colleagues, to vote that we don't lose the bill so that it won't be rejected so that we can jointly support it. Please vote. Please be supportive. Careful, fellows! Every voice matters. 0163, we vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:48:39]] For 223 Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. You promised to vote. Colleagues, I'm going to re-establish my return, then I'm going to re-establish the subject of the legislative initiative. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and mobilize. Colleagues, I ask you all to come to the hall and prepare for the vote. These are international agreements, this is the authority of Ukraine. And I'm asking you to vote now for the return, and then I'm going to put the subject in charge of the legislative initiative. Colleagues! Return and then to the subject. Return. Helen, return, and then the subject. I'm asking you to support the return to draft Law 0163. Please vote. Please be supportive. Return, and then, I will set up the subject of the legislative initiative. Please vote, every vote, please. Please be supportive. [[11:49:52]] For 223 Three votes. I'm asking you to show the factions. I'll put it again if you don't make it. Peter Poshenko's Block – 106, People's Front – 67, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 5, Radical Party – 18, Fatherland – 3, Will of the People – 5, Rebirth – 2. Colleagues, let's mobilize, it's just going to the government for work, so there's no precedent and no rejection of ratification. I'm asking everyone to get ready. And, colleagues, I ask you to support the proposal to return to the vote, draft Law 0163. Please support and please vote. Every voice, we vote carefully. To return first, and then to the subject of the legislative initiative. Vote, colleagues, please support, please vote. [[11:51:01]] For 217 No, no, the discussion's over, you know that. I'll put it last time, colleagues, if it's not supported, it'll be rejected. Colleagues, I'll wait another 30 seconds. I ask the heads of factions to enter the hall. Once again, if there are no return votes, the bill will be rejected. I'm asking you to come into the hall right now, stay put. Please hold for 30 seconds for Pinzenik to reply, 30 seconds, and please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, what is happening now by voting on this bill is a slap. A slap on the back of a very authoritative international financial organization. It's called this international World Bank organization. This is one of the creditors that has been giving support to projects since the first year of independence, many projects in Ukraine -- both the budget and the roads, and so on. We don't have the right to any political calls or slogans to fail a project that allows long-term lending to Ukrainian businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u43	I fully support you, Mr. Victor. But I don't have button 226, and it depends on the hall. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. And I'm asking you to respond responsibly, and I'm asking the internationals in every faction to convince their factions of the importance of this vote. I don't think our nation's international authority is divided into factions. I'm asking you to mobilize. I put the motion to return to the vote, and then I will return the subject to the legislative initiative. I ask everyone to unite. So, are you ready? I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Ratification Act 0163. Colleagues, I'm asking who's leading the discussion, very carefully, we're counting every vote, we're going back to the workplace. So, 0163, back to the ratification review, please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please. [[11:53:53]] For 231 And I'm voting 0163 on the proposal of a committee as a whole. Colleagues, please, this is responsible. No, no, I'm sorry, return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. And I ask you to support 0163 to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further development. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Careful, we vote, please support. Vote. [[11:54:33]] For 229 Decision taken. Guys, we've got some left. Please stay in the hall. We have another ratification of 0161 is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Promotion and Protection of Investments between Ukraine and the OPEC International Development Fund. We've considered it, too. Can we put him to the vote? Can you support that? Colleagues, we've already discussed it, just the vote. I'm asking you to mobilize, don't leave the room, every voice matters. Don't leave the hall, please. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Promotion and Protection of Investments between Ukraine and the OPEC International Development Fund (No. 0161). And at the suggestion of a committee on the basis and in general. Please vote and please support, colleagues, carefully, every vote matters, we vote. Please support the ratification. Please support your colleagues, we vote. [[11:55:50]] For 228 Decision taken. Next, colleagues, is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of an Exchange of Notes) between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands extending until 1 August 2018 the duration of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the International Investigation Mission from 28 July 2014. Colleagues, it's 11:56, I'm about to conduct a rating vote to support me, so I can understand whether we should start now or if we should start after the break. So I'm announcing a rating vote the day before the opening of the debate on draft Law 0169. Anyone who knows this bill understands its great international weight and how our citizens will react if it is not voted for. So the 0169 rating vote is for support. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:57:04]] For 254 There is the will of the hall, and so am I. Colleagues, is it the will of the hall for us to vote immediately? There's the will of the hall. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the extension until 1 August 2018 of the period of action (0169) as a whole. Please vote, please support. Every voice, please. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, 0169, a responsible international agreement. [[11:57:45]] For 257 Decision taken. And the last ratification is the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Statute of the International Agency for Renewable Energy (IRENA) (0164). Everybody backing up? Does everyone support IRENA? I'm voting 0164 as a whole. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote! I beg your pardon, please vote! [[11:58:25]] For 254 Decision taken. Colleagues, let's try the day-to-day inclusion, we've passed the ratification block. There are proposals from all factions, all of them. We have mobilization and concentration in the room. Come on, fellows, I'm going to put one proposal into the agenda of the day session, this is our next chapter in order of the day. First, the draft Law on the Service of Diplomacy (7322). It is suggested that the agenda of the day session be included and that we consider this week so that we can go to the second reading in a century of diplomatic service in Ukraine. Please vote, please support the inclusion of the day-to-day session in order to review this week's draft Law on Diplomatic Service (7322). Please vote. Vote, fellows! [[11:59:30.]] For 236 Decision taken. By the way, I'm going to continue for 15 minutes until there's a positive vote. The next one is attention, fellows! – Next. [[B in m in s a l in]] All these bills were on the site, every faction had an opportunity to get to know them. And that's why I'm just going to read them. Next: Draft Law amending Article 374 of the Customs Code of Ukraine (No. 7323). Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote, colleagues, please. [[12:00:17]] For 196 The decision is not taken. Next: Draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s defence laws (7,330 and 7331). Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:00:47]] For 216 Guys, I'm gonna put it back up again because there's only a few votes left. I'm asking you to mobilize, I'll put it back on. Please invite a colleague into the hall and do not travel around the hall during the voting. So I'm re-inserting the draft law to amend some of Ukraine's defence laws (7330 and 7331), the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote and please support. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[12:01:30]] For 228 Decision taken. Next: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure proper access by the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption to information necessary for the implementation of its powers (7276). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. [[12:02:11]] For-146 The decision is not taken. Next: Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act (to optimize the number of employees of the Public Prosecutor's Office). I stress that this is only about optimization and the right of the prosecution to determine the number within the limits set out in the law (7,160). I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda of this week's session. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote, please support 7,160. [[12:02:58]] For 211 We didn't have enough votes. I'll do it again, just like the Defense Act. During the vote, during the vote, colleagues, I ask to be in the workplace. You're ready, aren't you? I'm putting 7,160 into the agenda of the day session so that we can consider this issue this week. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Every vote, please. Please support, we vote. [[12:03:45]] For 222 Four times. I'll put it again, colleagues. Just please, I can see that it didn't work, so please come into the hall, take your jobs. When there are one or two votes missing, I ask to be simply in place during the vote. Mobilize your factions. Colleagues, I'm re-voting 7,160. I ask everyone to come to the workplace instead of having a discussion during the vote. So I'm putting it again, colleagues, I'm putting 7,160 again, putting the agenda in order for the session to be considered this week. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote carefully. Please be supportive. [[12:04:50]] For 224 Well, colleagues, what do we do? Two votes. Because it's in my eyes. I've been betting twice, I'm betting third. In my eyes, part of the faction is having a discussion. Please go back to work. The faction's head, please organize the people. It's just impossible. I see the card didn't work. I'll do it again. Please, just be careful when voting. I'm putting another 7,160 into the agenda for this week's session. We didn't have two votes. Please enter the hall and vote carefully. Please vote and please support. Vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:05:51]] For 231 Decision taken. Next: 7199, 7199-1. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act on the Order of the Determining of the List and the Territorial Jurisdiction of Local and Military Prosecutors (7199, 7199-1). This is the Cosmiakina Committee. Integrating the agenda of the session, please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[12:06:32]] For 205 There are 21 votes missing. That is why the decision is not made. Next. 7278: Draft Act amending Chapter X of the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to take effect. 7278, please vote. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[12:07:10]] For-195 The decision is not taken. Next: 7279, 7279-1: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation to simplify the judicial investigation of specific categories of criminal offences. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. It is a block of the laws of Cosemiakin. Vote. [[12:07:48]] For 223 Yes, there are literally three voices. So I'm putting 7279, 7279-1 in the agenda, once again, not enough votes. Please vote, please support. Vote! Please be supportive. [[12:08:18]] For 244 Decision taken. The following is 7286: draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to increase liability for individual traffic security offences. Please support, colleagues, 7286, the inclusion in the agenda of the session so that the committee can consider it. Please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. [[12:08:55]] For 227 Decision taken. Next: Draft Act amending the Law on Temporary Measures for the Period of ATOs on Restoration of Small and Medium-sized Business Opportunities, using loan financing in the ATO area (7338). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote! [[12:09:33]] For 235 Decision taken. Next. Colleagues, there are still three bills left. Next: Draft Law amending section VI, paragraph 16, of the Budget Code of Ukraine (7345). Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote! Please be supportive. [[12:10:08]] For 211 I'll do it again. If there's a mobilization, I'll put it again. So I'm re-inclusioning the day-to-day session of Law 7345, the inclusion of the day-to-day session. Please vote, please support. A budgetary issue supported by all factions. Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please support me. [[12:10:45]] For 232 Decision taken. Next: a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities on voluntary community unification. Colleagues, the day after the local self-government day tomorrow, let's support local self-government so the committee can take a look. This is a part of the day’s session (7308). Please support, please vote for the inclusion of the 7308, issue of decentralization in the agenda. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[12:11:29]] For-179 I don't see why. And, colleagues, one bill was registered today. Can I put it again? One bill. Okay. Colleagues, two more. Now. Two more bills that have been registered but have not yet been included. So one of them. Colleagues, pay attention! 7354 is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on criminal liability for denying the Russian Federation's military aggression against Ukraine. It's a bill -- like a response to the latest events, so that denying the fact of military aggression would be a basis for persecution. And all I'm asking is for you to get into the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support 7354, inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Responsible for denying military aggression in Ukraine. [[12:13:11]] For 209 Colleagues, I don't think they're all oriented. The bill proposes that there be responsibility for denying military aggression. It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. I don't think they're all oriented. I ask you to vote again for the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please vote 7354. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:13:53]] For 221 I'll do it again, colleagues. I'll do it again. I want to stress once again, I realize that the problem is largely hidden in that it wasn't right during the day. He was registered only this morning, offering responsibility for denying military aggression. We don't accept it, we don't put it to a vote, we just put it into the agenda of the day session so that the committee can look at it. That's why I'm voting 7354 again. I'd like everyone's support, colleagues. Please vote 7354. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:14:46]] For 221 I'll bet again. And, colleagues, 7234 is a proposal from the Radical Party on Energy Modernization, a bill. A progressive bill, and it is only proposed that it be placed in the order of the day session. 7234. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please support 7234. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:15:24]] For 209 I'll do it again, colleagues. I see it's not working, I'll put it back in, don't leave the hall, please be in your seats. So, colleagues, 7234 is the order of the day session. Please, everyone, carefully enter the hall and vote, take up jobs. So there's 7234 inclusion in the agenda of the day session. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote, colleagues, please. It's just getting into the agenda. [[12:16:07]] For 226 Decision taken. Aggression, I'm going to re-aggress. 7354 for denying military aggression, for placing in the order of the day’s session. Let's get together, all patriots, vote, colleagues. I ask you to unite all the patriots and vote in favour of placing the day’s session in order for you to be responsible for denying Russian military aggression. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, please support. [[12:17:00]] For 227 Decision taken. The time allocated for the morning session is over. I'll be able to re-position those bills that didn't go into the agenda of the day session. Now I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. And I'll remind you, after a break, we move on to security and defense. So I ask everyone to come to the hall at 12:50 a.m., and we will continue our session on security and defence. Thank you for your fruitful and active work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u44	Please come into the hall. Colleagues, break time is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Now we have an extremely important block, a block of national security and defence. We will be the first to consider a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on ensuring equal rights and opportunities for women and men during military service in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. In the past all factions of Parliament, virtually everyone, support the bill. And I hope that we will support the proposal for a reduced procedure, and we will support this bill. The next will be the draft Law on the State Special Transport Service, the next will be on military duty and military service (6689) and the second reading on temporary permits to speak in the ATO area. And the last one is 5027: the social and legal protection of military personnel and their families. Colleagues, a block of five security and defence issues. We spent a lot of time in the morning on political discussions. But I am convinced that when it comes to security and defence, the hall will work together. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I ask the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall and ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite all the deputies to the Hall. Colleagues, can we put this to a vote? Colleagues, I want to tell you the logic of events. Now I'm going to set up a reduced procedure. If we don't support the simplified procedure, we can put the entire security and defense unit at risk. So I'm very much asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall, I'm asking them to call their colleagues, let them know that the break time has been two minutes, and invite all the deputies into the hall. Please. I can. My colleagues, once again, if we don't vote in favour of a reduced procedure, we're going to put this block at risk, so I'm asking everyone to maximize their mobility. And now I'm going to put to the vote a motion for a review of draft Law 6109 under a reduced procedure. And I ask everyone, colleagues, to support all who support this bill, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. I therefore propose to vote that the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on ensuring equal rights and opportunities for women and men while serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations be considered in the summary procedure (6109). Please vote and please support. I ask all those who support this bill to support its consideration by means of a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[12:54:53]] For-125 I'll put it again, and invite the deputies into the hall. I'll do it again. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'll explain the logic again. We're moving on to security and defense. If we consider the full procedure, we will not be able to consider the bills. I'm asking the factions to invite the deputies into the hall and ask for everyone's support. I ask you to show the result of the previous vote on the board. Please point to the board so we can see where the potential is. I think so. When I put it up now, everyone's gonna be okay. I think this bill, it's not just a bill of security and defense, it's also our obligation to the Europeans. And I know that most factions have decided to support this bill. And so, colleagues, I'm asking to invite my colleagues into the hall, and I'm asking everyone who supports this bill to also support the proposal to consider it in a simplified manner. Please enter the hall, take your seats, and prepare for the vote. So, are you ready? I'm putting the vote again, and I'm asking you to be in the workplace during the vote. Please prepare carefully for the vote. And I would like to support the consideration of draft Law 6109: on ensuring the equal rights and opportunities of women and men during military service, under reduced procedures. Colleagues, every voice has weight. I ask everyone to vote. Please vote and support everyone. We'll wait for our colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues, very carefully, each voice. Please be supportive. Voting, voting, colleagues. Please support everyone. Please. [[12:58:05]] For-154 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine to Suslov Irina Mikolayevna. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u45	The Honourable Chairman, honourable colleagues, is brought to your attention by a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on ensuring equal rights and opportunities for women and men during military service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations. The bill was drafted by the People's Deputies in conjunction with the representatives of Genstabu and the public sector. The Parliamentary Committee on Security and Defence, as well as the Human Rights Committee, supported Bill 6109 and recommended its adoption as a basis. He envisions a series of changes that will make women a full part of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The first is the establishment of equal opportunities for contracting military service; the second is the lifting of unjustified restrictions on the release of women into reserve; the third is the provision of equal liability for women and men during military service; and the fourth is the establishment of equal rules for the conduct of military assemblies for men and women. The ideology of Bill 6109 is to achieve equal rights and opportunities for women and men in the Ukrainian army. It should be recognized that these are not only additional preferences but also additional responsibilities. However, Ukraine’s participation in this war proved that it was ready. I emphasize that we do not ask or require any preference for women in the army. Our goal is to make sure that the Armed Forces of Ukraine have the highest appreciation for qualifications and abilities, not sex, and that sex is not an obstacle to their realization. Unfortunately, women in the Ukrainian Armed Forces today continue to remain an "invisible battalion". At the end of last year, 17,000 women were serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, eight and a half percent of the total military force. And every day they have made a significant contribution to our security and independence with you. International experience shows that this is the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u46	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u47	International experience shows that armies that have made women an integral part of their lives are strong and effective. So I urge my fellow national MPs to support our initiative and to adopt this text of the bill in the first reading. Each of your voices is an essential contribution to strengthening the security of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u48	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich. From the committee, yes, Tetjana Blackwall will be speaking. Please, Mrs. Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u49	I want to say that our committee unanimously supported this bill, primarily its ideology. I will note that the ideology of this bill is not the defence of motherhood and childhood, the ideology of this bill is not a gender quota, the ideology of this bill is to enable women soldiers to implement in the Armed Forces, to build their career in the Armed Forces, to serve Ukraine in the Armed Forces. I'm going to point out that legislation is not protecting women soldiers right now. In particular, there are very large age restrictions. For example, a contract for military service cannot be signed by a woman over 40 years of age despite her military rank. And that means that not only do we have no women generals, but even theoretically, we just can't have them, as long as this is the case in legislation. The committee is therefore asking for the support of this bill. And as a female warrior, I think every deputy here is known. And in that sense, I want the MPs to express a great respect for the memory of one such female soldier, Amina Okivay, who became a symbol of Ukraine's struggle against Russian aggression and who died at the hands of Kremlin terrorists. Praise the heroes! Glory be to Aminy Okoway! [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u50	Thank you. So, colleagues, please record: two in, two in, two in, against. And I'd like to ask my colleagues to come to the hall. Please hold the recording, please. From Peter Dustenk's Block, By Oxane Volodymyrn. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasise that this is an extremely important bill. And we cannot view it today as a mechanism that will ensure the participation of women. Because this is a framework document, we're going to work on it and set up the very system of women's participation in war. And today we're actually going behind our problems, we're normalizing, we're putting into the legal field what's real. Today, between 10 and 30 percent of the women in our army are women who are totally lawless, who cannot make career growth, who are acting as one, and who are in fact completely different. That's why the Peter Dust Block faction will support this law. And I suggest you vote for him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u52	Thank you. From the People's Front, Timoshenko Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u53	For all the decent men of the country, every Ukrainian Amazon, a woman in shape, is sacred. And let it be an eternal disgrace to each of those men who are cowards who have buried under their wives' skirts and have not gone to war at a time when girls, women, should do it in their place. And I urge every decent man in this room who is not sick, who is not impotent, who is not afraid of women, to honor women, and to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u54	Thank you. Sidorovich passes the word Siroid, and later she will speak instead of Sidorovich. From Fatherland, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna is passing on to Olena Shkrum. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u55	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, Fatherland will no doubt support this bill. And really, we're talking about more than 17,000 women in the army today who can't serve for more than 40 years, whereas men in the highest positions stay up to 60 years. And of course, we have to clean up this discrimination because women protect the Fatherland, women have the right to do it, women do it in a lot of things better than men. And, of course, we will support this bill. But now I have to say that when we're looking at safe important bills, the laws on our veterans that protect those people who put their lives in the country and put their lives in favor of a democratic, European Ukraine, unfortunately, there's now a complete mess in the European square in Russian when not police, but "mints" beat people, beating our fellow national MPs who are out there, throwing cars. And I'm sorry, it's a shame the Council isn't talking about this right now, and I have to say this right now. You can't look at the security bills and talk about our heroes, the Celestial 100, and those who defend Ukraine, and at the same time make a mess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u56	Thank you. Siroid of Oksana Ivanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u57	Unreservedly, women are fit for a military profession no less than men, and they have shown themselves in this profession for many thousands of years, and they are manifest to this day. That is why it is very good that we are finally ready to make appropriate legislative decisions today. But I'm also here to draw our attention to something else. We make it look like nothing's happening, we make it look like we're just working here, and we're looking at the laws, that's when the actual despotic machine is suffocating people. Notice what is happening on the streets of Kiev. It's not about personality, you can view personality differently, it's about state and human freedom. About state and human freedom, about respect for state institutions. [[B in m in s a l in]] You're yelling because you're disrespecting state institutions. If you want to respect State institutions, those national institutions should respect man and his freedom. Yell, and the next will come for you, and there will be no one else crying.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u58	Colleagues, I emphasize an extremely important bill. I see MPs fit, but there may not be enough voices. I very much ask, I very much ask to invite deputies into the hall, and I ask, especially the heads of factions, now to mobilize as much as possible. And the Radical Party hasn't even come forward yet, has it? Okay, okay. Two minutes, Igor Mosiyczuk. Please, Mr. Igor. And I'd like you to invite the deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u59	Dear Ukrainian people! The Honourable Ukrainian Parliament! This is an extremely important law that will essentially honor thousands, tens of thousands of Ukrainian women who, with guns in their hands from day one, have been protecting our country. I personally admire my well-known Helen of Belarus, who has been fighting since the first day, first in the Law Sector, later in the Ukrainian Volunteer Army. Unfortunately, women die just like men on the front. And not only on the front, including in peaceful Kiev, where he was killed, the Russian agency killed my assistant, Amin Okiv. The same Russian agency, the same Russian agency, attacked me. And now in the middle of Kiev, this Russian agency for Kurchenka's money, for Kurchenka's money, it's a coup d'état! And I demand that the President, the Ukrainian Security Service, immediately activate all the detention and arrest mechanisms, in the custody of all those who are financed from Moscow. I know what I'm talking about. And there will be another name in this room for those who, including those in this room, sold to Moscow, sold to the Kremlin, served for the Kremlin and killed Ukraine for the Kremlin’s money. Let us support this bill, honor all Ukrainian women who are fighting and who have put their heads in the struggle for the territorial integrity of our country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u60	So, colleagues, I will now give the floor to this bill to Irina Heratschenko for two minutes. And I'm asking the factions to invite the deputies into the hall in two or three minutes, and we're going to move on, we're going to end the discussion, we're going to move on to a decision. Please, Irina Heratchenko, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as you know, last week the first women’s convention took place in Ukraine. By the way, I'd like to thank the deputies and deputies of all the factions that have joined it. And we've actually come a very big way with you to promote gender equality issues in all areas, including political life. The only area where we feed the rear and where there is no justice is the military structure and this is the Ukrainian Security Service. You know, we were very pleased to welcome women generals from our closest partner countries, NATO members, where they presented how many women are doing in the army today. But in this room were Ukrainian women of war, and among them was one woman, imagine, in all of Ukraine’s peacekeeping operations. She was asked what's your name. "Lieutenant," answered our colleague. "How old are you, Lieutenant Colonel?" A woman who knows six European languages, a woman who has undergone all peacekeeping operations, and as an analyst today helps to think about these peacekeeping operations in the same way. Imagine, the men in this room, would it be possible to answer that question if it were a man? She replied that she had been a lieutenant colonel for six years. Why? But because she doesn't have a right, it's a closed circle, she's going to be a colonel, because she's in a position where she's supposed to be a colonel, but she can't because it's forbidden by appropriate regulations, regulations and Soviet legislation. In fact, today we have over 23,000 women who are contractually serving in the army. But do you know how many officers there are? Only 3,000, and that's unfair. Recently, 72 brigades of the legendary Black Flags returned to a place of permanent deployment, and among those heroes and heroes who were sitting because they couldn't stand, there was a woman contractress who suffered during the latest shootings of the Audio woman, she was cut off.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u62	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u63	She was ripped off by her limbs, by this woman, and she wants to continue her service in the army, but she can't move on, because it's forbidden by the regulations. I believe that our duty with you is to the entire parliament today, on the eve of the festival of the Ukrainian army, and tomorrow will be the professional celebration of the Ukrainian army, to adopt this law. And once again, I want to point out that it's not about the mobilization of women, it's not about the forced service of women in the army, it's about those women, those heroines, those women army workers who made that decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u64	All right, Ira, ten seconds, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u65	Ten. Those women who have dedicated their lives to the army have the right to move on these career stairs, as do men. Let's support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u66	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. We move on to decision-making, and I ask everyone to take up jobs, we move on to decision-making. I'm asking both the committee members and the committee authors to contribute to maximum mobilization. I'll wait another 30 seconds, please, so the deputies will take their seats. So we're moving on to making a decision. And I am voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on ensuring equal rights and opportunities for women and men during military service in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations (No. 6109). The committee's proposal is based. Please vote, please support 6109 as a basis. Let's stand by, colleagues, let's vote. Please be supportive. [[13:16:04]] For 221 Wait, I see, we haven't made it. Please come into the hall, four votes. No, there are voices, we're just. So, colleagues, I'm going to be the first to come back. And I'm asking you to take up your jobs. So I'm voting the proposal to go back to 6109. Please take over and take part in the vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote in favour of the return to 6109. Please get the most out of the way, every voice. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. [[13:17:05]] For 225 One voice, I see, again. I see, yes. Please, I can see-I can see you, Irina, I'll set you up. So, colleagues, mobilize and be in the workplace. And I'm voting again on the proposal to go back to voting for the draft Law on Equal Rights and Opportunities for Women and Men (6109). Please vote and please support. Colleagues, please vote, every vote, we vote carefully, please support. Vote. [[13:17:58]] For 231 We're back. Now I'm putting Bill 6109's bill on a committee proposal as a basis. Colleagues, carefully, based. If you'll all support me, please carefully vote 6,109 as a basis. Vote. Colleagues, please support. [[13:18:28]] For 230 Decision taken. Colleagues, pay attention, please. I, colleagues, will do the following thing with your permission, attention. The next draft law on security and defence, and before I go into it, I'm going to put a rating vote so that we can see for support. The Rules state that the Head of the Supreme Council may hold a rating vote to determine the support of a bill. Colleagues, on security matters, it's particularly important. So, colleagues, I understand that everyone in this room realizes that we can't put any of the security and defence issues at risk. Now I'm going to put to a rating vote a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Special Transportation Services regarding the status of the State Special Transportation Service. I'm putting this bill on a rating vote to see if there are enough votes in the room so we can get to it (7,242). I ask everyone to mobilize and participate in the rating vote. So who supports us to go to this bill, please vote and please support me, colleagues. Vote, please. Please vote. [[13:20:07]] For 201 Next thing you know, I think we'll do it. Next up, colleagues. Next, please listen to me carefully! This is a draft law amending article 21-4 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (to improve the individual issues of payment of lump sum in the event of death, disability or partial loss of employment without establishing the disability of foreigners or stateless persons serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine) (6689), colleagues. I ask everyone to support in the rating vote the transition to the consideration of this bill. Colleagues, I ask you to be careful about voting and supporting everyone. First of all, it's a rating vote. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. Every voice, fellows! [[13:21:16]] For 213
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u67	One more time, let me put it again. If they're not all oriented, I'll re-evaluate the rail service (7,242). Now I'm just conducting a study of the position of the hall. So once again, I'm conducting a rating vote on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Special Transport Service (7242). And, colleagues, this is a rating vote. I'm asking you to maximize your mobility and I'm asking you to support 7242. This is a rating vote. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Vote, colleagues, please. Please support, we vote. [[13:22:24]] For 214 I think the room has the potential to enter. Colleagues, I'm the first to review draft Law 6689, which I've shown more support in the hall, is about military duty and military service (6689). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[13:23:11]] For 178. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Mr. Tétyana Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u68	The ideology of this bill is very simple, it's very short, but it's very important. In fact, it is a great challenge before us that we have not accepted it so far. The thing is, we have a military contract that can be signed for military service, can be signed not only by Ukrainian citizens, but also by nationals of any state. However, in the event of the death of a soldier’s family, the family of a dead Ukrainian citizen receives more financial assistance than the family of a dead foreigner. This happened because, in our time, we, the sessional hall, raised payments after the death of a military officer, but we did not take that nuance into account if this soldier is not a Ukrainian citizen. So this bill closes the gap, it balances the payments that to families of Ukrainian citizens who have been killed, that families of foreigners who have died, if they are serving in the forces of Ukraine, and unfortunately have died heroically in this war, which is now under way because of the aggression of the Russian Federation in our country at Donbasa. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u69	Thank you, Your Honor, for an important bill. Dear Mr. Pashinsky, Sergey Pashinsky, is now giving the head of the Committee on Safety and Defence to Sergey Pashinsky, be it. And, I'm sorry, the committee decided that this bill would be reported by a representative of the committee, John Winnick. Please, Mr. Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u70	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Indeed, it is an important project that my colleague Tetjana Czarovol has presented. He's actually solving two problems. The first, the largest, is that a military official is a Ukrainian citizen, and that a military service under contract can be performed by any person6 Ukrainian citizens, or a person without citizenship, or a citizen of a foreign state. And today, in the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, under contracts that we have allowed as the Supreme Council of the Eighth Council to sign to foreign citizens and non-citizens, many of the people who defend independence, the sovereignty of Ukraine, are obliged as legislation to provide equivalent, adequate, sufficient social protection to families if a military officer is killed during an anti-terrorist operation, during the reflection of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine. This is the purpose of this bill, which compares the rights of Ukrainian citizens to foreigners, without citizenship during military service. At the same time, we increase the financial assistance that families of the dead receive in the event of death. We realize that there are inflationary processes in the state, we realize that the money that was in the 14th year, with purchasing power and parity, is different from the possibilities that exist today. Therefore, we are obliged to take systematic care of this situation. The committee proposes to adopt this bill as a basis. There's a reference to science and science. We're going to work on the second reading. That's why I'm asking you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u71	Of course. Dear colleague, we thank you for your report. Now, a minute, I was a little distracted. I ask you to sign up for this important bill. Colleagues, please sign up. Please, from the Radical Party of Mosiyczuk. Mr. Igor, perhaps you'd like to report? Oh, Oleg Lazko, please. Mr. Oleg, we invite you to your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u72	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team will vote in favour of this law. We sincerely thank everyone who, without having a Ukrainian passport, but loving Ukraine, supporting our people, has come to a difficult time for our country, has become side by side with our Ukrainian boys and girls to defend our country. And the duty of power, the duty of the Ukrainian State, to do everything possible to support these volunteers. And from us there can be only one, eternal honor, glory and gratitude for the fact that in the fourteenth year and to this day, many people who unfortunately do not have Ukrainian citizenship but have Ukrainian spirit and love for Ukraine. I would like to address President Dustenk on the occasion that such an important law is being considered. Your Administration has hundreds of appeals from volunteers who do not have Ukrainian citizenship who want this Ukrainian citizenship, who have earned the right to Ukrainian citizenship at the cost of their own health, their own blood, protecting their home country. We must stop granting citizenship to the oligarchus or partners. We have to stop granting citizenship as the Georgian West, which killed its own people, then illegally acquired citizenship, and today, it is trying to instigate the Kremlin money in Ukraine and Kiev. Citizens should be given the highest value to those who deserve it. Who, rather than volunteers, are more likely than those who have taken up arms to advance the defense of the country, who, if not worthy of citizenship? So I ask the President, his Administration, to immediately consider all the appeals and to give Ukrainian citizenship to volunteers who are protecting our home country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u73	Please make a statement from the People's Front, People's Deity. National MP. Well, it's from the People's Front, from the factions, you're in a radical faction of the Radical Party. Now come out of the factions. Mr. Oleg, I'm concerned about the integrity of your faction as the most natural of all. Now, let's go to Fatherland, and you guys figure out the relationship between the factions. Okay? Please, ma'am. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now come out of the factions, your esteemed colleagues, for and against the factions. Please, Mrs. Schrum. And we're still reading the Rules. Please, Mrs. Olena. Ms. Olena Schrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u74	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, today we have more than 130 drafts in the Supreme Council aimed at enhancing the sovereignty of the state, protecting veterans, protecting military personnel and protecting their families. In fact, the speed of their passage is almost zero. We have chosen with civil society activists, with volunteers, with volunteers themselves, with the Legal Hundred who provide free legal advice to volunteers, with volunteers and with veterans themselves, and those who have resigned from the service have chosen only nine bills, which are supported entirely by all the factions that have passed the Security and Defence Committee, passed it over six months, most of these bills back, and yet they still don't go into the Hall. We require at least south to consider all nine bills that have long been considered by the profiling committee. Unfortunately, there are only two such bills that we are considering today. No doubt this is an important question. It is a matter of giving one - time financial assistance to those families of those who have died without citizenship or to foreigners who have served in the Armed Forces, who have actually, well, put their lives behind you and for you and for us, and for the new Ukraine. Sadly, however, there are many times today when a dead soldier was killed after his release from service. For example, he became seriously ill, was released three months later because the disease was incurable. And after he was released, unfortunately, he died in the hospital. And his family is not receiving any help today because he died after his release. And my colleagues and I passed a bill eight months ago that would have helped them get one - time financial assistance. This is Bill 6268, 8 months ago registered, five months ago considered by the committee, and unfortunately, it is not currently under consideration in this Council. So I ask and demand that you put it in the order of the day. Because we have Ukrainians who have died, who have served in their country, and whose families today say no one needs them. And these issues need to be addressed, too, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u75	Thank you. Since there was a call to me, I will answer, and I will answer a very important question. Today we've lost an hour of time without any need. Today, there was a requirement, including your colleagues, that we do not consider any questions at all. I don't understand how you can ask for a bill and at the time just don't let the Supreme Council of Ukraine work. When I ask to vote for a reduced procedure, I don't see enough votes. I'm doing everything I can to make sure that the maximum number of bills that we put in the next day are passed. But there must be, in addition to the requirements, more participation, and responsibility, and a common initiative to be able to work fully. So, colleagues, this is the closing act. Then we go to the vote. And I ask all the heads of factions and representatives who supported this bill to invite their colleagues to the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Lozov, two minutes. And we're moving on to making a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u76	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. When the Ukrainian Parliament considers such state-owned, so important, such historic draft laws, from which we will not be ashamed before future generations, we must be in Parliament, at work and vote. It's not walking around the roofs, it's the TV machines that have detained a particularly dangerous anti-government criminal, it's not blocking Ukrainian forces, it's not provoking the situation in the state, it's being here and voting, it's supporting the fighters, including the volunteers, including the heroes that I know myself, many of them, personally. In 2014, when a unique historical phenomenon emerged, a volunteer movement, like the Phoenix bird, was revived from the ashes by the efforts of Ukrainian volunteers in the Ukrainian rebel army, including the great friends of our people, foreigners, went by volunteers to fight in the Kiev regiment, in the Ukrainian Volunteer Army, in the Right Sector, in the Azov, in the Holy Mary, in other voluntary battalions, and, risking their lives, health and freedom, fought for the composure and independence of Ukraine, we must protect these people. And when there are these initiatives, we have to support them. Instead of some of our colleagues today supporting Russian mercenaries, criminals who are willing to cross any moral line that has become political losers in their country and are afraid to go there. And in our country, for the money of chickens, for the money of the Colombians, they try to overthrow our state and come to power, they have to sit down. And those of our colleagues who are in the hall, instead of supporting the volunteers, are now essentially trying to destroy the state, will always be ashamed of them. And future generations, children, grandchildren, will curse them. The glory of the nation!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u77	Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take their seats. We're done here, we're moving on to a decision. So once again, I urge the national deputies to prepare for the vote. During the presentations, all the factions and groups expressed their support for the bill. And I ask everyone to prepare for the decision. And I'm voting on a draft bill amending article 21-4 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (to improve individual issues of payment of one-time cash assistance in the event of death, disability or partial loss of employment. So 6689 is a proposal for a committee as a basis. Please vote. My colleagues, I'll be back to prepare for the vote. So 6689 is a proposal for a committee as a basis. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please vote, please support, vote. Please be supportive. [[13:37:29]] For 222 We didn't run. I'm going to put you back on the table. I'm just asking you not to go to the hall during the vote. I'm going to be at my place of work. So, colleagues, please take your seats, please prepare for the vote, please invite everyone to the hall. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for bill 6689. So, please vote, please support the return of 6689. Vote, please support, vote. [[13:38:28]] For 225 I see. Once again, please take up your jobs. And I'm once again proposing a return to draft Law 6689. I want to emphasize that every voice matters. And please participate directly in the work of the Supreme Council during the vote. Please vote and please support, 6689 return, please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:39:14]] For 232 We're back. And now I am voting on the draft Act amending articles 21 to 4 of the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service (No. 6689). Please vote, please support, on the basis. Please be supportive. [[13:39:48]] For 228 Decision taken, colleagues. And I was told that as a result of the political consultations, there was a bill on security. Sorry, the draft State Special Transportation Service Act receives support in the hall (7,242). And the next one is in order of the day, and I'm voting on the proposal to consider it in a simplified procedure. Please vote, please support. We're voting for a reduced procedure. [[13:40:37]] For-191 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, Mr. Turkinov Aleksandra Valentinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u78	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is a very important bill for the country's security: to amend the State Special Transportation Service Act. The bill was designed to implement the Ukrainian Security and Defence Council decision of 13 September of this year, which clearly defined the need for security from 1 January of the following year the functioning of the State Special Transportation Service in the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence system. The current military political situation requires effective transport and logistical support for the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations in response to the aggression of the Russian Federation. The State Special Transportation Service is a specialized paramilitary government body, so in order to provide effective defence needs, the country must function under one strategic decision-making centre. In connection with this, it is necessary to transfer the Transport State Department from the subordination of the Civil Ministry of Infrastructure to the direct subordination of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. The bill provides for a total of up to 5,000 people, of whom 4,000 600 are military personnel. The corresponding proportion will increase the number of Ukraine’s Ministry of Defence. In addition, the bill will help address social security issues of speciality as military personnel in the single legal field. This bill will allow the functions and tasks of the State Special Transport Service to be aligned with the proper functioning and task of the Ukrainian Armed Forces within the framework of the entire security and defence sector system, remove the artificial administrative inter-ministerial barriers to the implementation of the single military and technical policy, avoid dispersion of the country's defence budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm convinced that whatever faction you're referring to, you're coming in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u79	30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, I am convinced that both the opposition and the coalition must unite in support of the security and defence of our country. So I would like to support this bill as a whole. This is fundamentally important now, the eve of the country's budget vote. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u81	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. And I invite you to a report from the National Security and Defence Committee of Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Security and Defence has considered a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine entitled "The State Special Transport Service" on changing its status, including the Ministry of Defence, economic subordination and inclusion as one of the units of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which will carry out a task during a peaceful period and during a special period that is currently in progress. This situation is due to the fact that the Armed Forces of Ukraine today need adequate logistical support both in the area of anti-terrorist operations and in the area of anti-terrorist operations, as well as for military tasks in the rear (to ensure the preservation and viability of arsenals, which are unfortunately being attacked by the Russian Federation today, as well as its leaders, who unfortunately operate inside Ukraine. We therefore propose to uphold the Law of Ukraine today. Ukraine's bill on the State Special Transport Service on status. The key ideology, which is that from the central authority of the executive branch, this body will become a state service for special transport, is a specialized military formation that is part of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence system. 4,000 600 military personnel, 5,000 total personnel, the corresponding status of military personnel for individuals and members of their families, protection in the event of death, disability, disability, that is, everything will be spread with the same ideology as any military officer. Please support me on the basis and, as a whole, this decision of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u83	Thank you. Colleagues, please record: two in, two in. But I'm also asking you to do it as precisely as possible. We've got two more undeclared laws on our block. Please record. He's the People's Front, Corchik Vitaly Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, we are all in a state of military aggression, and we must immediately vote, support the bill, and just before the adoption of Ukraine’s budget. Because the bill proposes to include the State Special Transportation Service in the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence system and to clarify organizational guidelines for its functioning in peacetime and special period. So I ask everyone to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u85	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u86	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team has always, all three years in Parliament, voted and voted in favour of laws that strengthen the security of our country, allow peace, territorial integrity, bring millions of Ukrainians back to their homes, to their homes, to their circumstances, to restore peace in Ukraine. To do this, we need to be strong, not just strong armies, but, above all, strong economies. A strong economy is possible if a national producer works, when every Ukrainian has a job and a decent salary. But the security of the state is not only the triumphant feat of our heroes on the front, the border guards, the security of the state, but also the situation in the middle of the country. A hundred years ago, Ukraine lost its state, not because we were weaker than the Bolshevik army, but because inside the newly discovered Gehtmans were fighting each other and the Bolsheviks were insurgents in Kiev instead of sending an army to assist students under the Kruths and to stop the Muraviov army. What is happening today in Kiev under the leadership of Kremlin's agent Saakashvili for the money of Januković's gang, Kurchenka, is a coup d'état on the Kremlin's notes, an attempt to break up and blow Ukraine from the inside. All those who support the Saakashvili rebellion work for the Kremlin, for the Kremlin's money, consciously or unconsciously, and don't tell me that you don't know the history lesson, that you don't know the history of the century. I demand the Attorney General to immediately come to Parliament and demonstrate evidence of the anti-State plot of Saakashvili, the Kremlin and the Januković environment. And all of them in prison who betrayed the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u87	From the faction of "The Father" Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction will no doubt support this bill. Just like the "Fatherland" faction, I'd like to hear about Yuri Lucenk's black list of the Party of Regions accounts, which contains dozens, if not hundreds, of surnames. So what is the fate of these people? Where were the black lists of the Party of Regions, including those sitting in this session hall and receiving funds from Yanukovic? Now they are the ones most shouting about what is being revealed, the others who have been competing with them for these costs. I think it's time for an honest conversation. And to figure it out, at whose expense there are so-called parties today that have on their list of the people of Yanukovich, who have in their lists of the people of Jura of Anakiyiv, who exist for the money of Yanukovich and Anakiyivski. Then we will be able to get to the bottom of all other matters. And since there is no answer to the first question, there will be no answer to the second question, because it's convenient for those who have covered up the revolution without being in Maidan for a day, and now they're trying to solve their dirty business for the same money Janukovich. So those who don't see the log in their own eye don't push them where they're obviously the only ones. Who gave Saakashvili citizenship? President Poshenko. He gave citizenship to an agent of Russia? Who, then, is President Prašenko?Oh, my God! These are the answers that we should get here and today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u89	And, colleagues, the closing statement is Irina Heratchenko, after which we will proceed to the vote. Colleagues, in order not to put on several occasions, I very much ask all the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization and invite MPs into the hall. Two minutes later, we move on to making a decision. Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u90	Thank you to the faction of WFP, which gave me the right to speak out of this bill. And I'd like to particularly refer to the self-help honourable colleagues with whom we've now had an interesting discussion on this bill, which is important. Friends, our army has indeed made very serious progress in modernizing these three years. But where we have to admit, we still have serious gaps -- those are engineering troops. The Russian Federation is so geographically established that their engineering forces are at a very high level. And this bill, as the honourable Secretary of the Security and Defence Council correctly told us, is simply putting into effect the decision of the Security and Defence Council to strengthen our engineering forces by joining them in a very serious transport component. As a person who is very often on the front today and who is in those blinds too, I want to assure you that this is the request of our army force that we should strengthen this very component. We often have soldiers digging these blinds themselves because they don't even have this technique to dig with. They don't have this technique to build fortification buildings. And when we're talking about strengthening our engineering forces at the expense of this bill by passing on the transport component, believe me, we're doing the right thing, taking into account the challenges facing our army today, and this adversary, who has a very serious engineering component. So I'm asking very simply to vote for this bill now, so not only to execute the decisions of the Security and Defence Council, but also to hear not only the Ukrainian Generalate, but the simple soldier who is now digging these blindnesses with his hands and shovel to protect his life. Let's give them more modern mechanisms. And let's just check it out in a year and see how it works. I'm asking you to support this, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m0.u91	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to take their seats now. I stress once again that we don't put the vote back, I ask everyone to come into the hall, come into the hall and take jobs. I'm asking you to help me with the committee members who initiated this bill. I ask you to take up your jobs when you make your decision. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Special Transport Service on the Status of the State Special Transportation Service (No. 7242) as proposed by the Committee as a basis and as a whole, a colleague. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Colleagues, be careful with each voice. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:54:20]] For 232 Decision taken. Colleagues, pay attention, don't leave. Now I'm going to follow our previous tactic: I'm going to put the following bills on the ratings vote, we don't have the right to lose them. Alexander Valentinovich, welcome to the decision-making process. Thank you for participating in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And, colleagues, I now place a 6565 rating vote. This is a bill that provides for changes to some Ukrainian legislation on temporary permits to speak in the ATO area. An important bill, there's only a few rights, we can pass it now if there's room will. But we have no right to take it down. And I'm betting on a rating vote to support Bill 6565. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote! Please be supportive. Ratings for support. [[13:55:28]] For a hundred and Colleagues, I'm going to put the final bill of our block on the rating vote. Listen carefully, colleagues. This is a bill amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (5027). To avoid putting any security bill at risk, I am now announcing a rating vote to support this bill. So I ask you to maximize your mobility and take part in the vote. So I'm going to vote, I'm going to vote, I'm going to vote, I'm going to vote, I'm going to vote, I'm going to vote, I'm going to draft Law 5027. Please vote, please support. This is a rating vote, please. [[13:56:28]] For 211 What do you think we're gonna do, colleagues? No, it's not. It's a risk, isn't it? The committee head says it's a high risk. And if there's a risk, we can't ask the question of the security and defence block, the more three minutes are left, and that's not enough time for us to be able to fully discuss the bill. So, dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that today we have decided to take part in the morning session and to listen to the Attorney General, the Security Service, the SAP, the NAB and. Rules? 16 o'clock, colleagues, I say. I'll keep you posted. At four o'clock we'll start with the Attorney General's report, all of them will be able to ask questions. The proposal will be built this way, in full reading mode: 20 minutes -- report, then 25 minutes -- questions from factions and 15 minutes -- questions from MPs. So all factions will be able to ask questions and all MPs. If we don't make it, we'll be transferring reports and hearings on Wednesday. So, colleagues. Colleagues, we had an emotional morning session, but we were able to adopt very important laws and ratifications, security and defence laws. And I must now announce the conclusion of the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At 16 o'clock, I'm asking everyone to come to the hall to continue our work. Thank you, colleagues. By 4:00.
