ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the sitting room and prepare for the start of our work. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. I'd like you to sign up. [[10:02:51]] There are 317 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. First of all, colleagues, I would like to inform you that, as you know, we have lost our colleague, Peter Mikhailovich Vanata, whose funeral is taking place today and the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is taking part in the funeral, so today he will not be able to participate in the plenary session of the Parliament. I would like to announce that today is the birthday of the national MP Anton Yuriovich Heratschenko. Please welcome the National MP. [[Applause]] And I would also like to welcome the members of the Ukrainian government who are participating today in our meeting. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 229 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have an hour of questions to the Government. And I invite you to the first report of the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG of Ukraine, Mr. Gennady Zubk. It's set to 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u2	Dear vice-speaker, distinguished national MPs, distinguished colleagues! A lot of questions came from all the Ukrainians, from the people's deputies in the situation that was in Audivka, what had happened, what was happening, so to say, was the unfolding of events, and how the situation is now in the city in general in order to ensure the work of all life support systems, as well as the restoration of the lives of ordinary Ukrainians in this city. I would like to remind you of how events unfolded and I would like some attention from the point of view that we would like to examine with you what was happening in Ukraine that week. The military situation was exacerbated in the past, during January, but since January 29, there has been an increase in attacks by terrorists, occupying forces in support of the Russian forces in the position of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. It was January 29 that a major operation began. And I'd like to thank once again our military 72nd Mechanized Brigade, which has been held firmly by the first attack, the first incursion of virtually the invaders. On January 30, the situation immediately took place when the last power supply thread was broken, and the city of Avdivka was running out of electricity, not only because electricity was asked about water supply and water supply, gas supply and heat supply, and virtually ran out of things like survival and the ability to provide services to the population. I'd like to point out that it was at this very time that there was a very low temperature, about minus 17 degrees Fahrenheit, and it was a threat not only to the city's viability, but not only to the viability of the coke plant, but to the general existence of people in the city of Audiacian. Directly 30 numbers during the time we received the information, the President of Ukraine, having interrupted his visit to Germany, made a number of necessary decisions that relate primarily to international activities, as well as coordination as the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, who defended these positions on the verge of the promzone in Austria. On the following day, January 31st, at 8 a.m., the Staff was assembled from extraordinary situations, as well as from technological catastrophes, where previous decisions were made on the organization of all forces and means, which not only apply to decisions at the central level and organization of robots, from the State Emergency Service, from the National Police, the National Guard, municipal services, rescue services, and virtually all the local authorities involved in the coordination and resolution of the crisis situation in the city of Audiovac. Literally on the same day, on January 31st, the Prime Minister, along with the government delegation, arrived in the city of Audiavka, and together under his leadership, a meeting was held, where all possible scenarios were worked out that could, so to speak, work in one case or another. Let me be clear that crisis scenarios have been considered from the beginning of full evacuation to the overall retention of life-support systems and the possibility of finding people in the city of Audiavca. I'd like to say directly that already on January 31st, at the expense of crash-renewable work, at the expense of the anti-crisis decisions taken, circular applications were launched and it was practically possible to provide the city with heat from a coxochemical plant, and this allowed us to give the temperature of energy up to 35 degrees that provided practically in the homes of the people of Audiwka, in the multi-story sector up to 15-16 degrees. The situation was a crisis, why? Because at all times we expected that there would be virtually silence and that renewables would be possible in order to restore the energy supply at all. But the situation did not improve from the point of view of the regime of silence, but it did worse. And in principle, the situation that has had such an impact and such a serious increase in energy supply to 165 homes of residents, to individual homes, and the impact on the city's life support in general, has been a crisis over the weeks. I would like to point out that at this very difficult time, a large number of people were involved who were working with the State Emergency Service, who were working with the National Guard, who were working with the utilities to provide a minimum pressure and a temperature of up to 50 degrees, which allowed us to raise the temperature in the apartments to 15 to 18 degrees. Thus, no cooling was allowed and aid was provided to the population, there were practically towns that helped directly the residents of the city of Audiówka, who were provided not only with hot food, drinking water, but also practically with the first things they needed, starting with food and finishing, generally with personal hygiene. Social services, psychologists, who helped to coordinate the work in practice, also worked at the home. In order to visualize the size of the population, it was practically daily to provide assistance to the 4,000 inhabitants of the city. I would like to thank you here, in addition to being organized by the practical and central and local authorities of all the organizational arrangements, I would also like to thank the people of Audiavka, and to thank directly the volunteer organizations that have joined in this active assistance. I would also like to thank the national deputies who personally arrived in the city of Audiavku, the factions of the Supreme Council, who organized the provision of humanitarian aid directly. And I would like to say that there were those who actually did the piano. But there were those who were directly involved in the relief work, not only in delivering humanitarian aid but also in helping to organize it, but also in helping those in need. I'd like to give you a few examples of what happened in Austria during this week. You know, when the Prime Minister arrived in Audiavka, when he and I passed through the city after the meeting, and we reached practically the tent town where the DDSN services were working, and we met people who were directly Ukrainians, who were not excluded, who, working in the next coke factory, talked about only one thing: the ceasefire, the opportunity to work, the possibility of restoring energy supply, and the concern for those children they leave at home when they go directly to work. You know, this approach at all, this patriotism, so practically, you know, that the energy of the interior residents of the country gave her confidence that we're directly keeping the situation and we're going to do this to restore completely all the energy systems. The following day, literally, after a decision by the headquarters, the Prime Minister recommended that a re-educational process be resumed in one of the schools of Audiwka to allow children to be involved in not only the teaching process but also to be supervised in order to enable parents to feel safe in a dangerous situation. Why do I say that? Because you just have to imagine the situation where the city lives, the city works, the city struggles for its own survival, so to speak. On the other hand, literally, a mile and a half from the center of the city, there are fighting events, and practically our 72 military brigades are holding back the pressure of the opponent who is coming. I'd just like to say a few numbers, which is exactly what happened. If the first days of January 29 took place between 400 and 800 and 1,000 shots a day, if you count the last day, the last three days of the shooting of the Audiatic Spring and the city directly, it was 3.5 thousand shots. Understand a very simple thing: 3.5 thousand shells, that's 10,000 tons of metal, that's practically on the head of our military. This is the very act of our military, which, by its patriotism, made it impossible to capture the city. That's the purpose of the situation. Panic among the people. Not allowing the city to exist was the main goal of the invasion forces. Why do I say that? Because directly, when we waited every day for the re-establishment of the silence regime to do the restorative work, and they couldn't be done, because the permanent repair crews that came out every morning to start these repairs were shot. Directly on February 1, a fire was fired at the city center, where a second school was shot, a tent town was shot, and a DSS employee and a peaceful resident of Audiówka were killed. I would like to say that this was a very harsh situation, and it was kept by the people of Audiavka, thanks to the actions of the President in the external economic field, the coordination of the military forces by the government, the people's deputies, the parliaments of all countries, because we have received very many and many positions from South Africa, from the United Nations, from the Council of Europe, from the governments of other countries that have declared the ceasefire and the ceasefire of the fire in the city of Austria. And once again, I would like to point out that directly the actions that were prepared by the government, by the DDSN, from the point of view, and 180 buses, and three trains, and the possibility of simultaneously evacuating 12,000 people. Thank God they didn't come to us, so to speak. I would like to point out once again that it is the direct coordination of all government officials, local administrations, volunteers, national deputies, and civil society that has made it possible to contain the situation. Right after the energy supply was restored, here I would like to thank Paul Ivanovich Žebrovski separately, who personally led the column repair on the last day in order to perform repairs and restore the energy supply, as well as the mission of the OSCE, which was directly located in the city of repairs and did not allow the site to be fired again. Opportunities were found to restore not only the energy supply but also to restore the backup line of entry into the city of Audiyuk. It was by doing so that the situation in the city was stopped in practice and a crisis that existed for almost a week. On the other hand, I would like to thank all the local administrations who have joined in delivering construction materials to the city of Audiovisual for the reconstruction work. It was directly Dnipropetrovska, Kharkivska, Poltavska, Cerkaszka, Zaporizka, Žitomirska, and other areas that placed building materials on questions from local authorities. Because directly, except for the multi-story buildings that directly hit 1 February shells from the occupying forces in the uncontrolled area, it's also near 28 individual buildings, and then by 50 that's the number of houses that have been damaged and are now being rehabilitated, and more than 50 percent of the buildings have now been restored from the roof point of view. What I'd like to add to that. That this situation was very difficult, but it was under the supervision of the President of Ukraine every year, under the direct leadership of the Prime Minister, and of all the government officials involved in the situation. I would like to start by thanking all of our rescue workers who worked directly on the site, and I would like to thank all the local administrations that have joined this issue, directly the Donetsk Military and Civil Administration, the community services that worked on the ground, the education people who have organized a process that is practically educational during such an intensification, the doctors who worked on the ground, and those who are now restoring practical life in the city of Austria. I would like to report that today, in the city of Audia, there has been a full recovery in the state of supply, energy, gas, water supply, and water supply. In 5 out of 7 schools, the teaching process is restored. And this is when practically fighting in the prom zone continues. I would just like to point out and tell our Ukrainians, our national deputies again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u3	How long have you been here? Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u4	I would like to point out that, directly through joint efforts, this situation, which has been exacerbated, has been halted. But on the other hand, I would like to thank the people's deputies once again for having voted decentralization laws yesterday to show the Ukrainians the map of reform. 75 percent of Ukrainians today are Eurooptimists who want to move to Europe, who want democratic principles of governance and who want reforms. I would like to say that 95 percent of the Ukrainians who live in the country today believe in peace and believe in the changes that will take place in the country, because directly 95 percent of the people in the country stayed in place and, so to speak, took advantage of the possibility of being evacuated. I'd like to say that at that time, we understood what is going to be won today by our military in the east, it's going to be given for the possibility of reform. And so once again, I would like to thank the people's deputies for yesterday's strong vote on the laws that allow for a change of governance in the state. At the same time, first of all, I would like to say a few words to all of us, the Ukrainians, the national deputies, the heads of the united territorial communities, the local self - government, the government that each of us has a place in history and in that road map of reforms that we are carrying out together. You know, there's a very good saying that knowing the way and going through the way is two very different things. And I'd like to go directly here to the Ukrainian media, who are also doing their part in reforming, in communicating with people to help us all implement these reforms. Because in order to go through the path, you need to know it first. I'd just like to ask our media to join not only the parliamentary battles, not just who joined the coalition that came out, but to give us a simple road map to move like Ukraine. Because it is only possible to get out of a very difficult situation because of the actions, actions that have demonstrated the integration of Ukrainians in Austria, who have demonstrated the links of Ukrainians around reforms and who have to demonstrate our joint actions in order for Ukraine to be economically independent, is a democratic European state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u5	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. And I invite you to the report of the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Mr. Igor Nasalik. It's been seven minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u6	Dear Oksana Ivanovna, distinguished national MPs, respected members of the government! First of all, I'd like to tell you that the combined energy system is operating in a state-of-the-art mode and we're ready for any abnormal temperatures that would not be in Ukraine. If you've noticed, there's no question from the national MPs, from the media, how the combined energy system works, and whether we're going to go through the fall-winter period. This, of course, was a huge job being applied by the energies of our nation, which not only introduced our nuclear industry into the state regime, diversifyed the supply of nuclear fuel, and today the nuclear industry in our country is 60 percent, 60 percent. We started in May with 47 percent. What did this give us? This has given us the basics. First. We took out our eastern neighbor's main influence on our energy system, we took out the gas fan, and we took out the power switch. We're a self-sufficient state in energy terms. On the other hand, this produced economic results, and since January 1, the wholesale market price of electricity has dropped for the first time in 25 years by 10 percent. Since March 1, we've been reducing it by 5.7 percent. What is the problem with the unified energy system? I cannot say that today the unified energy system is independent of the supply of anthracite to our nation. Unfortunately, this has been the case, historically, and in the controlled area, the anthracite group is not produced. Of course, the government also looked at the problem. And the Ministry of Energy introduced two projects during 2016 and 2017 and has introduced two projects that allow for the replacement of three and a half million tons of coal anthrax in a unified energy system. However, to this day the blockade of transitions will certainly cause a blowout in our country, and this is a stressful situation for a united energy system. And on the other hand, it'll double the price for coal. How were we guided by the supply of coal from an uncontrolled zone of territory? The legal acts that were adopted in 2014 regulated the movement of goods — and I want to stress it — of movement. Ukraine has no correspondence between the uncontrolled zone. Moving the goods of an anthracite group. What was the explanation? Two things were explained. In the area, 660,000 miners remain uncontrollable. The miners are paid for their work at the same price as our miners. This price for today amounts to a thousand 730 dollars. The cost of Rotterdam Plus, which you're always talking about, is twice as much. How's the pay coming? Pay goes through the Sberbank card, where the wages are paid to miners. Dear friends, I am more than convinced that the issue of blockade is a matter of political decision. You have to make it clear that NCT is a territory of Ukraine or that it is not a territory of Ukraine. You have to say, 60,000, 60,000 miners working there are Ukrainians or not Ukrainians. We need to realize that a full blockade will lead to the failure of miners to earn their wages. And then -- I want to finish -- and then, and then, and then, and then, if these miners are deprived of their form of existence through wages, they're going to raise their weapons and go against the regime that's there, I'm the first one to take the machine and join the blockade. But if the miners who were deprived of their means were to fill the armed forces there. [[B in m in s a l in]] They'll stop, they'll build up, it's a matter of blood. Therefore, the issue of adoption is a political decision that only the Supreme Council of Ukraine can make. There shouldn't be an exterminator. If you make a decision on the full blockade, this blockade should be carried out by non-volunteers, the Ukrainian Security Service, the army, and all other forces. But then you must accept the overall responsibility. If these people are deprived of their right to exist, 60,000 take arms and complete illegal weapons formations -- that's the blood that will be in our country. I've got everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u7	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Mr. Taras Kutov. It's set to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u8	Dear Oksana Ivanovna, dear colleagues! You and I are grieving over the loss of a colleague. His eternal memory. Today, I would like to give you a few facts about what results we have year after year and a little bit of information about the programs that we are discussing. The result of the 16th year. Next slide, please turn on. As a result of the 16th year, well, thank God, the weather has helped us a lot, but I would like to thank all the agrarians, we have a record yield of 66 million tons, of which we managed to export 27.5 million tons. In the export structure of Ukraine compared to the previous year, the APC took 37.5 per cent in the previous year, this year after 16 years – 41.4 per cent in the structure of Ukraine's general external trade. So today, more than 40 percent of the structure is an agricultural and industrial complex. The increase in crude grains and grain beans by the previous year is more than 10 percent. In this cut, of course, we should also mention animal farming, and of course, we have a rise of more than 6 percent in grains, and there's a fall in livestock -- that's a negative trend. And it seems to us that because of the program supported by the Supreme Council in the quasiaccumulation of VAT, we will be able to contain, firstly, the decline, and secondly, to increase those powers that we have always naturally had. In terms of areas of success, the best fertility results are Winnitsk region, 64 centrifuges from the hectare, then Cherkaska, Poltavska, Sumska and Kyivska 58. What I'm saying is that we've seen significant increases in agricultural productivity, not because of the increase in solitude, which basically says that all the efficient technologies that are in the world today are present in our market today. And it can be said that Ukraine is now in the leaders, including the world’s, equal to fertility. As far as culture is concerned. We have 28 million tons of corn in the congregation, that's plus almost 20 percent before the previous year. According to Greek, it should be recalled that we have discussed this issue with you on a number of occasions, and the ministry has undertaken to work out the mechanisms for increasing crops, and thus we have managed to increase the yield by almost 40 percent in Greek, which, in principle, as we have analysed the situation, has affected these new parameters, and it is the media that has not provided such a rapid rise in Greek as it might be. Sugar is also a very successful year: plus 40 percent before the previous year is 2 million tons of production, with half a million tons actually being shipped for export. This suggests that the quality of our production is increasing, including the quality of our production. In the sun, the record for all years is: plus 20 percent – 13.6 million tons. So this is the same record: almost plus 10 percent is 4.3 million tons. Here we have to consider that we have a very active trade relationship with India. India is one of the largest consumers of grain beans. And so I think it's a promising market, and India's population goes up by about 20 million every year. I think this strategic interaction will give our agrarians the opportunity to have a successful and stable market for grain. And for sugar beets, also, 33 percent increase, that's plus almost 14 million tons. What I mean to say is that, of course, in this very large work, the work of tireless our agrarians, of course, the weather has helped us. But this year, we hope that by coming out of the weather conditions that are now, we expect early spring, we will also have good results. A particular question is the question of support. Here I would like to thank all the people's deputies, and we have done a great job with you, and here you have a great deal of respect, and thank you for supporting this initiative of government, and this year the APC will get 5.75 million dollars and this program will be fixed for five years. That is, you have made changes to the Budget Code, according to which one percent of gross agrarian production will be directed to support the industry for the next five years. After this year, as a result, we hope that this will be more than 6 billion dollars. What is the context of the distribution? First of all, I'd like to say by comparative figures of the previous year. Of course, we have a special regime issue that doesn't work this year, but I'll talk about it a little bit later. But in terms of support, compared to the previous year, support has increased by more than 15 times. And I very much hope that the programs that we're going to implement with you will work. What about programs? There's a 300 million-dollar loan pricing program, there's a program, a program that works exclusively through commercial banks at the request of district administrations, the system is absolutely transparent, it has positive feedback from all the agrarians, and, I think, the success that it's had in the previous year, it's also going to have this year. Small costs, but they're all present today to support hops, gardens, vineyards -- 75 million, loans to farmers -- 65 million dollars, support for livestock -- 170 million dollars, quasiaccumulation of VAT -- 4 billion dollars, that's actually a program that goes to replace and compensate us for the special VAT. And we agreed that this is 10 percent of this one percent, which is essentially going to support this year, is 550 million dollars. Here we have to consider that support will only be given to enterprises that have a significant level of localization. To the next Cabinet of Ministers we are already working on the program that should work, and we would very much like and think that this support will help our local Ukrainian producers to increase their production volume. Given that this mechanism is in place in this five - year program and that it will be 15 percent in the following year, and in the next 20 percent year, this stability will enable enterprises to predict their production volumes, to have a stable market. And I think that the locomotive that we have in the grains today should be properly transformed into success in our agricultural machinery. There are other programs, and the programs are 287 million, previously linked to the repayment of the loan debt that is now in existence in the APC under previous programmes. And I wanted to put a stop to the quasiaccumulation program, so we call it, according to the Supreme Council's decision, the grant is given to producers of animal, grape, fruit, berries, nuts, vegetables, tobacco and sugar beet. The total amount of this program is 4 billion dollars. How does it work? The first thing I want to say is that the system works automatically. The government's fiscal service provides registers of payers that have paid off the relevant agrarian market participants, those that I mentioned are animals and so on, they pay VAT, they declare the VAT accordingly. The fiscal service forms lists of paid VAT during the reporting period and passes these lists on to the Treasury. The Ministry of the APC has neither the distribution nor the prioritization of that relationship. And it seems to us that this is the moment of automaticity that should give us confidence in this tool. And since we hope that it will produce positive fruits, the first positive fruit that it can produce is the confidence of the agrarians in this program. Thus, the automaticity of this program will have good results. In addition, I would like to say that the government's decision to observe and propose national MPs, members of the committee who were present at the government meeting, is limited to 50 percent of the total. In addition, aid is distributed in uniform parts per month, i.e. it will allow all support not to be selected by large players, first of all, in some reporting period. Secondly, large players will be limited in this range. This gives us hope that all the small and medium-sized producers will receive full compensation. How does the system work? If the monthly amount of grants is greater than or equal to the expected payments, they will be paid in full. If they pay the agrarians more than what they need at the moment of support, they're a lower coefficient, but this lowering coefficient works for all market participants at the same time. I've already said about the mechanism that was reflected on the next slide. I'd like to say that according to your approved colleagues, and thank you again for that, the programs, over 15,000 producers, are receiving state support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u9	Please give me a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u10	It will be planned to pay off the creditors' debt in the previous years. And by the way, our agrarians didn't really expect these steps to be taken by the Supreme Council. And support programs are called upon to give a high-quality boost to the growth of the production shaft, but above all, and to develop processing and value-added into Ukraine, that's exactly what we want. Grain, we're the world's leaders. And we have to look at today, not how much Vale do we make, but how much profit do we generate from this Vale? How many jobs we create in Ukraine, and what is the effect of synergy from having this beneficial land today in Ukraine. Colleagues, I would like to thank you once again for supporting those initiatives of the agrarian ministry and the government that were today, to say that today at the Supreme Council, 11 bills proposed by the Ministry are under consideration, and we very much ask for your support in these legislative initiatives. Thank you very much. And thank you for your hard and fruitful work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u11	Thank you. Now we have half an hour to ask the Cabinet. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare yourself for the recording. Please record for questions. Something's clearly done to the "Race" system, but it's already done. Please. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Victor Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u12	Please give the floor to the national deputy Saul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u13	Please, National Deputy Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u14	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. I have a question for Secretary of Agrarian Policy Taras Kutov. As the national MP who represents the mountain settlements, first of all, I want to point out that the problem of working cities today in this particular area is one of the key. Until recently, in Soviet times, the industry that supported and created jobs had been an animal industry. Unfortunately, as a result of the mere systemlessness and lack of public support in recent times, this sector has virtually been brought to nothing, and today people in mountain areas are virtually out of jobs. Today you report from the rostrum that there is a 170 million dollars animal support program. Dear Taras Viktorovich, I ask you to provide a direct development grant in preparation for the use of these funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u15	Please, 10 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u16	Dear Taras Viktorovich, during the preparation of the order, I ask you to provide a direct grant to support animalry in mountain settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u17	Yuri Igorovich, thank you for your question. First of all, what I want to consider is that really through the discussion, the discussion of this issue, first of all, the great achievement with you today is that we've returned this program. And within the framework of the existing programme, of course, we'll be paying attention to the development of farming in the mountains. I understand that this is a very small farm. And so I think we're going to have enough resources to support them, not so many of them, and the number of headquarters in these farms. I think we'll be able to support them. So thank you for your question. You and I will work together, including this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u18	Thank you. National MP Feldman is not in the hall. Therefore, I would like to invite you to the statement of the People's Front, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u19	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency. I have a question for Igor Stepanovich. Igor Stepanovich, there are not so many funds allocated to the coal sector. This year, 300 million were allocated for the development of new lava. And when I was there, when you were there. The different DPs represented this program, and I saw that by giving this program, a lot of people leave prices, tender prices just like that. And it's a very big request to you, well, as an example of the Lviv Coal DP, where normal existing prices were clearly set, and other, for example, DP that came up there, they went up there, well, I don't know, 20, 30 percent, 30 percent outstripped, clear control over those money respectively, and that they were actually clearly implemented in the coal sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u20	Thank you, Mr. Mikhail. Thank you for always standing up for the miners on the fuel and energy committee and for the decisions you made before the new year, and for letting us close our debt completely to the miners.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u21	Listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u22	And there is no debt for today. With regard to investment in lava and coal industry, the government should say that the coal industry development programme has been supported by an unprecedented government this year, and has allocated 1 billion dollars of guarantees to modernize mines. We made a trial, 300 million, that we took credit through DVC, but we went a completely different way the Ministry went to do that. We've asked the public organizations to look at the results of the ProZorro prices run by the mines. I have to say that there were a lot of comments. And I want to thank this group that worked at the Ministry, which made it possible to cut costs for the new lava. I just want to thank Lvivcarbone, who has practically passed this commission without notice, and the first funds are already allocated to these programs. We're getting pretty good at U-1, U-3. There's a lot of comments up there before Selidewwogil, and the Selidewwogil program won't be funded until the working group confirms the results of this work. And basically I have to say that I'm optimistic about the development of the coal sector. And we set the goal of increasing the production of Ukrainian coal by almost 60 to 80 percent. And I think with the cooperation of the Supreme Council, we're going to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u23	Thank you. National MP Vladislav Danielin. Let's have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Oleg Medunic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u25	Please, Oleg Medunica.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u26	Oleg Medunica, People's Front, Sumi. Dear Stephen Ivanovich, I honestly don't know in the context of recent events with the Crucifixion, who to ask: whether the Prime Minister or the Minister of Infrastructure. But I want you to hear the problem that is on the Matter of Transport with other regions of Ukraine. The region that borders with the Russian Federation, where more borders than even in the Donetsk region, where almost 1 million people live, more than 1 million, has no permanent connection with Western Ukraine and South Ukraine. We even have a Conotap station, one of the largest railway nodes, where half a million people live next door, a train that takes transit on Odessa, doesn't take passengers, it stops, it stands for half an hour, but it doesn't take passengers. We've repeatedly addressed the head of the Crucifixion, the effect of zero. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u27	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u28	I want the government to pay attention to the Matter, to the road that connects Kiev and Suma, and to the problems that are connected in the railway.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u29	Please. Who Will Answer? Minister Omelyan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u30	Thank you. Minister Omelyan responds. Thank you, Your Honor, for your question. In fact, there's a lot more people in the room who are involved in the Crucifixion. In this particular case. I wanted to inform you that we, too, were paying attention to the need to improve the link between the substance and other regions of Ukraine. Some of the measures were already implemented in the 16th year after optimizing the movement of passenger trains. I hope that after the upgrade of the passenger cars scheduled for this year, we will be able to do the same with additional routes in your region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u31	Thank you. One more minute, Deputy Prime Minister of Cuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u32	I mean, according to strategies, honourable deputies, honourable colleagues, I want to say that the government's strategy for railway reform and modernization is approved by the Prime Minister's mandate to meet the government. The other one. What I'm saying is that over the last 15 years, there's been no update on the subject of the train, the traction force, when we talk about how to connect, at all. For example, I want to say that the last wagon for the transport of grains in Ukraine was built in 1993 and we are talking today about a clear programme and an operational programme for the modernization of the railway as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u33	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Igor Goose, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u34	Good afternoon. Igor Gus, 19th constituency, Volin. I'm here to see Mr. Kubov, Mr. Zubko, and Mrs. Ulyana Suprun. Stepan Ivanovich, the president's team forgot about Volin. Peter Alexiyovich, in two and a half years, almost three times did not come, and Groisman never came. Last night, I'm asking you, Kabmin has allocated 45 million for the Black people's perinatal centers, the Lvivs. Thank you, guys. But the valans of MPs, here six turned to the district council, to the city: help a penny, Volin district perinatal center -- no! Please, we have a weak lobbyist head of the Gunczyk district administration who can't beat anything for Volina. Turn him over to his mother! Please note the Volin Perinatal Center and come, pass the Dusty, the Groysman, on Volin. We're waiting for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, who will answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u36	You know, the question of reforming medicine in general, it's sensitive, much more than the previous question. Thus, it refers to human life and health. That's the first one. The other one. Longevity, which was built under specific projects, had a very long-term implementation path. In changing even the political systems and the parliamentary corps as a local, district, and even the Supreme Council, they moved from five - year - olds to five - year - olds. Our government programme today is clearly organized until the end of a medical facility, based on efficiency and treatment, including modernization of medical equipment. The other one. I know that Volin, and we talked about Volin, is involved in studying and implementing the completion of this medical project. As for the second part of the question you've been talking about, the question of the Prime Minister's arrival, I'm going to hand it to him myself. With regard to the President, I'm also on behalf of the MP to submit a request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u37	Thank you. You're welcome. Please, one more minute, Deputy Prime Minister Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Igor Volodymyrovich! I think that Volin is now one of the key regions in Ukraine primarily because we see that decentralization reforms are giving Volina new opportunities. I'd like to go a little bit to the question of kicking money out of Kiev into a project to increase revenue directly to local self-government, into the development budget. And you know that Volin himself is showing economic growth today, including income to both local and district budgets and other directions. And so I'd like to say again, what's important is the end of the perinatal center. But what's very important is the work that you do with medical institutions, you do with health workers directly in the area: the establishment of hospital districts, the identification of the direction of health facilities, so that we not only have one perinatal center in Volina, but there are several districts where it can be provided as quality primary care, a secondary level and a third chain in the medical field. And it's very important that, right after the establishment of the hospital districts, we will be able to involve direct state funding and funding for our international project partners, which not only raise questions about houses, but also about equipment equipment, and what's important is the training of our professionals. So I think we need to work together on these issues, and we need to work together not only on one perinatal center or maybe five hospitals, six districts that will work fully on Volina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u39	Thank you. I also ask government members to answer as concisely as possible, because there are many deputies who want to ask questions. Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Igor Vasjunnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u40	Igor Vasjunnik, Lviv, People's Front. This week, the government allocated funds for the financing of the Lviv perinatal center and for the reconstruction of the temple of the Greek Catholic Church, the Council of St. George. That's why I want to thank the government and Vladimir Groyman personally for this decision, for keeping his word. I mean. That the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of UNESCO's monument to the Council of Jura is probably the first time in Ukraine's independence. Thank you for that decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u41	Thank you. I don't think there's anything to answer. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Valery Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u42	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear members of the Cabinet of Ministers, I had a question from the voters in Kharkiv, but the question was to Vladimir Borisovich, so I'm going to ask you this question. I had a personal reception with Harkowian Melnichenko Sergey Grigorovich, and he asked a very serious question. We have a problem with paying wages from the state-owned company Harkowsk State Aviation Production Company. This is about the fact that it is now a business in liquidation, but the debt has already exceeded 53 million, and another 133 are debts to the Pension Fund. I ask you to take personal control of this issue because debt is only increasing now, and we need to solve it because it is the fate of thousands of Harkians. Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u43	This question, Your Honor, this question is not only for Kharkishte, but for all state-owned enterprises that had the specifics of closed topics and the military sector, they were oriented towards the Russian Federation, where cooperation after the collapse of the Union continued for a long time in an independent Ukraine. The state of the economy today, along with the Ministry of Defense, has clearly analyzed the situation in every enterprise of this type. There's a clear program of action from the point of view and modernization, both in terms of quality and market orientation. And the main thing is that more than 3.5 thousand businesses in Ukraine today have a weakness called bankruptcy and lack of competition in the market. For this purpose, there is a clear program that is being adopted, the program, first of all, which is aimed at improving the modernization of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, they have a separate program. A program of state-owned enterprises that is effective and is a clear privatization program because, unfortunately, the state is not a quality owner of product management. And the third position: these businesses, which are not effective, are bankrupt, and there are more than a thousand, other legal decisions will be made accordingly until they are eliminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u44	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Ruslan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u45	Please pass the word to Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u46	Please, National Deputy Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u47	It's sublime, Self-help. I have a question for Mr. Nasalik. Mr. Igor, when Rotterdam Plus was introduced, the main motivation was the diversification of coal supply and the independence of ATO. In one interview, you said that in connection with the supply of ATO, we had saved, and the state had saved 15 billion. In fact, not the state saved 15 billion, but made a generation of 15 billion because it bought cheaper there, and we all, the Ukrainians, paid for it. In an interview yesterday, you said that to be independent of the supply of anthrax, you must have political will and be able to resolve the issue. Whose political will is needed to resolve the issue of independence. And the third question is about miners, our Ukrainian miners, who live in an uncontrollable territory. If they don't get paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u48	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u49	They're like you said, they're going to come out and break a regime that doesn't allow them to work properly, and this mode is called "LNR management," "DNR." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u50	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u51	Thank you, Leo Theophilovich, for asking, what's more, this is a question from a representative of the Fuel Energy Committee. I should say that today is not the price of Rotterdam Plus placed at the price of the ORC. Today there is a price of 1 thousand 730 bracelets, which, by the way, works both for chess in controlled territory and for miners in uncontrollable territory. All the difference is between an uncontrolled and controlled area that Ukrainian miners receive subsidies, and miners that work in an uncontrolled area only get wages. As far as it goes, for today's Rotterdam Plus, the price would be 3,000 or 3 thousand 100, depending on the supply, whether it would be South Africa, whether it would be Australia, or whether it would be China. And the price that works today is 1 thousand 730 dollars. If we completely give up the uncontrollable zone, we have to understand that the price of coal diversification is going to be 3,000 dollars. To do that, you have to multiply 9 million tons of coal that anthracite groups need into the difference of one and a half thousand, which is going to make up the defined amount that you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u52	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Laska.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u53	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for the Minister of Agrarian Politics, Reverend Taras Kutov. You've just reported to the Ukrainians and parliament that last year there's a record crop of 66 million tons in Ukraine. I think that this figure over and over again suggests the inability to argue the need to sell land because, I said, there is no effective owner. These record crops show that we can farm on earth and harvest normal crops without having to sell them. But at the same time, I have a question for you, what does the Ministry do to the government for the restoration of animal production in Ukraine? We have the fall of cattle, sheep, goats, sheep, sheep, and we already have meat coming from abroad and milk that stings chemistry, called milk. Today, the price of milk in peasants has dropped from 5 bracelets to 3.5. How can a rural family feed their child at such a price for milk? When will the cow finally be in the village?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u54	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u55	Thank you, Oleg Valeriyovich, for the appreciation of the agricultural work in Ukraine. We are, of course, doing everything we can right now, along with you, to make sure that the phenomena that are in animalry are much better. To do that, we've introduced two, along with you, two mechanisms: the first is the quasiaccumulation of VAT, and I think the first users of this support are animals, and this will help in positive dynamics. The second is the 170 million animal support program, and that is where the selection work is. I think these two existing directions will definitely help us achieve better results. And as for other initiatives, the ministry will normally come up with additional initiatives, and we very much hope that we will implement them with your support. I fully support your position in the context that Ukrainian agriculture is fully able to provide for the internal market, both meat and milk, and all that is needed. And that's exactly how it's supposed to be. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u56	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the people's representative of Missik. None. Then I would like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Evtushka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u57	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. I want to speak to you, Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, as a person with an economic cluster of questions. Legislation that regulates the status of areas affected by the Chernobyl disaster provides for expenses to feed children in Category III. What I'm saying is that today, there's some kind of saviour going on, that individual firms that are being sold to these tenders, like "Time of Dreams," "Translogisty Group," that "Rico" is being blocked completely by the purchase and feeding of children in schools. I want to say that the Ukrainian Security Service in the Plains region has already sent letters and clearly states that these are signs of a conspiracy between these people. In the Antimonopoly Committee, the decision of the Permanent Administrative College of the AMCA to hear complaints of violations of legislation is constantly being annulled, and I ask that it be made possible to discuss and provide food for children in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u58	Thank you. Who Will Answer? First Vice Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u59	If you have a part of the question, Andrew Reva, and I'm about the general issue that you've asked. First, I would ask you to prepare a parliamentary address, because we're talking today about the structure of the Antimonopoly Committee. The other one. All the auctions that are going through today under the law of August 1st last year are going through the ProZorro mechanism. And the third, important question. The Ukrainian Security Service's mission to study this issue that you said was under control today. We're not going to inform you personally yet. And I'd like you to give it to Andria Reva.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u60	Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u61	The Honourable People's Deputy Eutuszek, the problem you're talking about, I understand, it's about feeding children, suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. This is not the only complaint not only in Volina but also in the Zitomir region, and in a number of others we have this problem. The problem is that when we have tenders, we have different structures that are not always designed for quality and good nutrition, but for slightly different purposes. How can we cope? Just a few days ago, I was assigned to the relevant departments of the Ministry of Social Policy to change the principle of children being fed. In our view, instead of conducting similar tenders that are not known to anyone, we plan to hand money over to parents who will feed their children at this cost.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u62	Thank you. I invite you to hear the words of the national deputy Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u63	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I wanted to ask the question of both the First Vice Prime Minister and the Minister of the APC. You can see that in Ukraine today there is a black market for land, which is opaque and de facto, not de jure, but de facto trading in land. And I wanted to ask you when the government would be able to submit to the Supreme Council a package of documents, a package of bills to ensure a transparent, free and well-organized market for land. Because the moratorium that exists today only blocks the economic development of the country. And I want to say that there is no successful country in the world where there is a moratorium on the land market.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u64	Please, who will answer? [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Vice Prime Minister, please tell me who will answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u65	Taras Kutov will answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u66	Vladimir Igorevich, thank you for asking. I want to say that decisions of such importance and such significance for the Ukrainian State can only be made after a broad and thorough discussion with all the participants in this process. This week we had a large national forum in Hmelnick, where we met with farmers, associations, and we discussed this very deeply. I think that until this issue is discussed in depth, agreed with all the participants, we can't make any hasty decisions, because it's also economically based, it's also very socialally important. And I think we're going this way, but no quick steps the government and the ministry will definitely do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u67	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Yuri Bublik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Paul Kishkarev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u69	Please, National Deputy Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u70	Dear friends! [[B in m in s a l in]] Honorable colleagues, questions to Stepan Ivanovich Kubov and colleagues. The first request that you be the government of the state of Ukraine, because these are the moments that arise today, especially at customs and in cooperation. And in activities with the Security Service, they're a little tense. In particular, I've just learned that six tanks from Belarus and diesel were planted at Stocks Station simply because they thought there was some kind of explosion. These six tanks are the largest patriot in the city of Poltava, which has an appropriate importer company. You're not just killing an importer, honest. an honest, decent person who pays all the taxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u71	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u72	I'm asking you to take care of my 154 orders, which are clearly defined by exactly 14 companies against which disclosure.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u73	I think the question is clear. Who Will Answer? First Vice Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u74	As far as decisions are concerned, an honourable, distinguished national MP, regarding the decisions and activities of the Security Service, this does not fall within the purview of the government. I'd like to make a request. And today I'm on the phone. I'm going to put a phone call to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. With regard to the second question of identifying the companies involved in the activity, the main regulator for the formation and pricing of deliveries is the price of the market and the public auctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u75	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Chamber, Mr. Anton Antonishtak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u77	Please. I don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u78	Oleg Musei, 124th constituency, Sokalstina, Red Town. I have a question for two vice-premiers. First Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Kubov, about the famous one for all of Ukraine's terricones. Thank God, the government has made up its mind and made funds. I would like to ask you: who is now responsible for the implementation of these funds specifically? And who do we now have to ask about the real shutdown of this terricone? Second question to Deputy Prime Minister Hennady Zubka. Last time I asked you, you promised that the hospital districts would be formed by the councils of local and national deputies. Please tell me, what specific decision have you made regarding the fulfillment of your promise? And is there really going to be a delay in the formation of the hospital districts? Because this has ruined half of Ukraine’s condition for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u79	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u80	As for the first question, Mr. Olege, at the direction of the Prime Minister, there were two expeditions: first, mine personally, and second, Vladimir Kistion, where questions in the Sokal region regarding terrimony were examined according to the extinguishing technology in full. The other one. A decision has been made to assess the conduct of the action. Third. On Wednesday, the Government of Ukraine made a decision on the allocation of funds; the second was clearly responsible for the transparency of the use of funds by the Lviv Regional Administration. And thirdly, in December 2017, the Lviv Regional Public Administration, together with those who will carry out the action, will hold a report and a public evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u81	Thank you. That was the last question. Oh, yes, there was another answer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that every government official in our government not only promises but also keeps his promises. With regard to the formation of hospital districts. As we agreed, it was in the Cherniewsky and Volinsky region that the people’s deputies were involved in the discussion with the district administrations at the medical facilities, with the heads of the medical institutions in the establishment of the hospital districts, and also in the consensus that is now being built between the Ministry of Health and the local authorities. I think it's just a simple thing for all Ukrainians to understand. There are reforms that need to be brought out of the political plane. And we need to unite and move together to provide a quality service that will draw close to man. The second question is to put an end to one or another reform. I'll tell you that perhaps the reform of medicine is exactly what the whole country is looking for. Because medical care today does not provide either a Ukrainian who asks for help or a doctor who provides it. And that's why any delay is not only necessary, it's a threat to both the health and the safety of our citizens. I can say that those areas where there are no political issues, where there is no interference by political groups or parties at all, are now moving towards implementing this reform. And let me be clear that it is those who will be first who will receive the most help, as was the voluntary union of communities, and how it will be with those who will join in the reform. Because it is directly those areas that will be identified and will move forward in the formation of the hospital districts, the establishment and establishment of the hospital councils, the introduction and creation of quality primary, secondary aid, that are also assisted by both the State and the international financial organizations that have agreed to participate in the implementation of this reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u83	May I have a word with the First Deputy Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u84	Dear Mrs. Oksano! Dear fellow MPs! I want to thank you for today’s hour of frank conversation, an active and effective dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u85	Thank you. Let's thank the government for working in Parliament. Dear National Deputies! We're going to read the queries. First of all, we have a discussion of the questions that came up with the name of the President of Ukraine. This is the first request, the request of Jurija-Bogdan Škuhević to the President of Ukraine for the removal of the fine "not subject to publication" and the cancellation of all the classified legal acts of the President of Ukraine, which have established illegal pension privileges for former National Deputys of the U.S.R. and the USSR, former First Secretaries of the Ukrainian Company, etc., and members of their families, who calculate pensions, on the basis of the official salary of the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the termination of the payment of pensions to these persons. As you know, we need a vote to get those requests to the President of Ukraine. That's the first vote. Please prepare, we need 150 votes. Please vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote in favour of the request of National Deputy Yuri-Bogdan Shuhevich. [[11:17:50]] For-88 There are no votes to support this request, unfortunately there are not enough deputies in the room. Next, Sergey Eutuska asked the President of Ukraine about the need to implement articles 94 and 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare yourself and support the request of a fellow national MP, Sergio Eutuska. Please vote. [[11:18:31]] For-83 Request not supported. And the next request by Jaroslav Markevich to the President of Ukraine for the protection of the constitutional rights of citizens. Please prepare, please support the request of a fellow national MP, Jaroslav Markevich. Please vote. [[11:19:02]] For-79 Request not supported. There were also questions such as these. Jury Odarchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the inaction of the internal affairs authorities and the prosecutor’s office in the case of falsification of documents and seizure of the property of the Izotov family. Viktor Razwadowski to the Zitomir city head for the completion of the sewer and water network with further repairs on the road to the west in the city of Žitomir. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Romanov Regional Council of the Žitomir Region, head of the Romanov District State Administration of the Žitomir Region for the installation of sports facilities with turks and bras in the village of the town of Bekovka Romanovsky district, Žitomir district. Stanislava Berezhkin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the renewal of criminal conduct regarding the former management of the BTA Bank (Ukraine). Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the failure to implement the decisions of the courts of the first instance and the renewal of the Director of the Department of Personnel Management and the Organization Documentary Security of Mikola Bateczka. Vladislava Golub to the head of the Cerka District State Administration, director of the Society with limited responsibility "Resurstechnobud", the head of the municipal firm "Misske Vodkanal" (city of Złotonoša), the Zolotnoša City Head of the Cherkas region for information and documentation regarding the reconstruction of the collector in the city of Złotonosza. Olga Bogolitz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to develop a National Plan of Action for the Fight and Prevention of Hepatitis. Olga Bogolitz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to resolve the situation surrounding the restructuring of the Department of Health "Specialized Medical Part 18" of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Sergia Dunayeva to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine for information, non-derogation of constitutional rights and duties of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Victoria Ptašnik to the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, managing matters for obtaining materials to check the level of qualification of the Chief Adviser to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, Sergey Semenyuk in office. Victoria Vojtsicka to the head of the NAK Supervisory Board of Naftogaz Ukraine for the investment plan of the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" for 2016 and 2017. Victoria Vojtsicka to the head of the NAC Supervisory Board of Naftogaz Ukraine on the tax liability of Pat "Ukrnafta". Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the harmonization with the Ministry of Professional Affairs and the adoption by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the Order "On the Approval of the Arrangement for the Management of the Property of the Public Shareholder Society "Ukrainian Railway". Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine for the resolution of the repair of the bridge across the Skirka River on the 301+579 R-32 Kremenec-Bila Church-Rzistów road in 2017. Jury Odarchenka to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the use of all necessary measures to protect the rights of Ukrainian sailors on the ship "Free Neptune". Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent admission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a candidate for the post of Minister of Health of Ukraine. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment and accountability of persons responsible for the damage to the State budget of Ukraine as a result of public procurement of medical supplies and medical supplies for 2015 through international organizations. Igor Guza to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for completion of construction and the construction of a 44-bedroom residence for military personnel in Volodymiri-Wolinski. Igora Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for further development of the Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 461 of 24 June 2016 on the approval of lists of production, jobs, occupations, posts and performances in which the right to retirement is granted by age on extended terms. Vladislav Buharev to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the amendment of the Law on the Provision of Commercial Accounting of Natural Gas for the establishment of individual gas counters in multiple apartment buildings of the State and other regions of Ukraine. Andrija Teteruka to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the application of measures to verify the facts raised in the parliamentary inquiry, to ensure the legality and accountability of officials of the National Agency for State Service and the National Space Agency of Ukraine. Maxima Burbak to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the continuation of the course to the city of Premysl (Poland) of the comfortable train of Chernivci-Lviv No. 702. Maxima Burbak to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the investigation of the illegal possession of funds provided for the state border of Ukraine-Moldov in the region of Cherniveck. Vasil Guljava to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, head of the National Police of Ukraine on the need for the establishment of the Black Sea Police Department of the National Police Department of the Odessa Region. Groups of people’s deputies (Dechtirczuk, Batenka, and others) A total of 10 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to increase the salaries of teachers of preschool institutions, as well as technical staff and the corresponding increase in the amount of educational subsidies from the State budget to local budgets. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine on the question of the restructuring of state plant variety expertise centres with state plant rights inspectorates. Mary Ionova to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer to the municipal property of the territorial community of Kyiv to the dormitory on 34 Preslavinska Street. John Sporish to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the improper investigation by officials of the Obolon Police Department of the National Police in Kiev on criminal matters Nos. Jury Wozniak to the Managing Director of the Fund for the Guarantee of Investments of Individuals for the Return of Depositary Deposits of the Public Shareholders Association, Bank of Finance and Credit. Alexander Brigintz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the threat of environmental disaster, in connection with the source of hazardous substances in the Hersonian region. Sergei Vlasenka, under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health of Ukraine for blocking and sabotaging the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for the activities of the State Enterprise "Institute of the Heart of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine" to provide medical care to people with heart disease in Ukraine. Sergei Vlasenka to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine on possible risks that threaten the stability of Ukraine's banking and financial system through the pro-Russian human resources policy of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine Valeria Hontareva. Vitalia Hometinika to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine on the establishment of a fair amount of monetary compensation for the cost of food for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster and the protection of their constitutional rights. Savchenko's hopes for the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for providing information on the number, name lists of military and security personnel of Ukraine who are now illegally held by representatives of the so-called DNR and LNR. Savchenko's hopes for the Ukrainian Defence Minister for providing information on the number, names of military personnel and co-workers of the Ministry of Defence, who are now illegally held by representatives of the so-called DNR and LNR. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the exacerbation of the criminogenic situation in the cities of Korosten and Olevsk Zitomir district. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on Cabinet Order No. 409 of August 6, 2014. Michael Bondar to the head of the Regional Regional Administration of the Lviv Region, head of the Radekhiv District State Administration of the Lviv Region, head of the Kamyanka-Buzki District Public Administration of the Lviv Region, head of the Bus District State Administration of the Lviv Region, for details on the use of State Budget Grants to local budgets for the socio-economic development of individual areas received in 2016. Michael Bondar to the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to facilitate the provision of necessary medical care in Germany to the ATO fighter after an explosion and partial loss of vision. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for an objective review and effective response to the appeal of the team of the Communion Enterprise "Odes Regional Academic Russian Dramatic Theatre" on the attempt to wrongly remove the director of this institution. Helen Stotnik to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Temporaryly Inoccupied Territories and Internally Moved Persons of Ukraine on a procedure to familiarize themselves with all documents that have the "secret" charter and relate to the possibility of returning Donbas this year (the strategies for the depopulation of individual areas of Donbas). John Melniczuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, National Institute of Cancer, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, for the implementation of the constitutional right of citizens to free medical care. Ivan Melniczuk to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, State Road Agency of Ukraine, Office of Roads in the Vinnitsky region, Vinnitsky District Public Administration for the inclusion of an emergency road section on the street of the Central in the village of Vladovka Latino Region of Vinnitsky in the Plan of Repairs by the Office of Roads in the Vinnitsky region for 2017. The Presidents of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Heads of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Heads of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Heads of the Government of the Public Association of the Commercial Bank for the Protection of the Rights of Customers of the PAT "Privact Bank" residing in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the annexation of the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea by the Russian Federation and the decisions taken by the management of the designated commercial bank were deprived of the right to dispose of their funds. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to support domestic metallurgical enterprises and pipeline factories. Alons Koscheva to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for an increase in medical subsidies from the state budget to local budgets for insulin supplements in 2017. Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the improper examination of the MP's request by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources and the need to take effective action to guarantee environmental security for the inhabitants of the Darnicki district of Kiev. Alexander Suprunenka to Kyiv’s city head on another improper examination of the MP’s appeal and the use of rehabilitation measures in the Dniprov district of the capital. Andrija Jourgia to the head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service for the provision of information on individual criminal conduct. Andrija Žurzija to head the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service for information on conversion centres during May 2015 - December 2016. Roman Semenha and Andrija Žuržija to head the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for information on conversion centers. Roman Semenha and Andrija Žuržija to head the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for details on Sergey Bilaan's social network Facebook. Vadim Krivohatka to the head of Zaporezki District State Administration to clarify the results of the crop 2016 program. Sergey Rudika to the head of the Cherka District State Administration on the effectiveness of the funds envisaged for the construction (purchasing) housing of families of dead soldiers from the Cherkas region who participated in the antiterrorist operation, as well as of the first - and third - group of military personnel involved in hostilities in the east of Ukraine, who needed to improve housing conditions in 2015 - 2016. Oleg Petrenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the state-level issue of pensioning to state-level pensioners. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation in the transport sector of Ukraine's economy. Andrija Nemirowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for Criminal Investigations under the Pat "Agrarian Fund" and the Pat "State Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine". Mr. Andrija Nemirowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Acting Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the State Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine, Head of the Government of the Public Shareholder Society of the Agrarian Fund for the Privatization of the PAT "Agrarian Fund" and Pat "National Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine". Taras Batenka to the Przemyslian City Head of the Lviv Region, head of the Lviv Road Service in the Lviv Region, on the need to improve traffic security in Galicá Street in the Lviv region, in connection with repairs. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations to threaten the implementation of the rural socio-economic development plans of Kyiv region in connection with the entry into force of the NCRECR Decision of 15 December 2016 No 2210. Vitalia Gudzenka to the executive responsibility of the Head of State Service of Ukraine for geodesy, cartography, and cadastre regarding the issuance of land-based documents to social workers of the villages of Kyslivka and the Buddha of the Tarost district of Kyiv region. Andrija Illenka to head the Dniprovsky District in Kiev State Administration, Kiev City Head, for the repair of asphalt cover on Kibalčič Street, 14 in the Dniprovsk district of Kiev. Andrea Illenka to Kiev City Head for information on the construction of a residential complex on Alysher-Navoy Street, 55 in the Dniprov district of Kiev. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, on the provision of decent working conditions for Doctor of Science, Senior Research Fellow of the Institute of Molecular Biology and Genetics of Ukraine, Brovarec Olga Alexandrovna. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the right of access to justice. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the local procuratorate of Hmelnitsk Region, Baranów Department of Police of the Novograd Wallinov Police Department of the National Police Department in the Žitomir Region, Polonian Department of the Shepetov Police Department of the National Police Department of the Hmelnicki Region, No 12016060110000141 of 11 August 2016, No 120162402400391 of 11 August 2016, which was initiated on the basis of the fact that the rivers of Gomorrah and the Svet were polluted, as well as the surrounding environment in the village of Poninka (Hmelnitsky region), which was caused by the work of TV "Ponikapápápápáčki Pánkékékékékéníkékéké naké. Tetjana Ostrkovy, head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service, on the practical application of the requirements of articles 345 to 351 of the Ukrainian Customs Code in the work of the U.S.F. Ostrichova’s aunts to the head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the verification of possible violations of effective legislation by foreign economic operators who import goods with a reduced customs value. Melnik's Sergey to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the provision of housing for families of the deceased and disabled who participated in the ATO and for military personnel who need housing or welfare. Vitalia Homutinika to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the establishment of a fair amount of annual relief for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster and for the protection of their constitutional rights. Jaroslava Dubnević to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the creation of a memorial museum for the Stacks couple. Mr. Timchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the establishment of entry/exit checkpoints and the land area of the administrative border with the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget for the provision of information on decisions by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budget issues for the implementation of section VI, paragraph 24, paragraph 4, of the Budget Code, “Towards and Transitional Positions”. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for funding from the Building State Building of the Hmeljna District Children's Hospital. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Šinkovic to the head of the Hmelnick district council on the need to allocate funds for the capital repair of the Yampil Public Education School of the Hmelnicke district. Mr. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Utilities, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the lifting of the CNCRCRCR. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, for the payment of allowances to preschool teachers. Sergey Kaplina to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inclusion in the agenda of the day plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Supreme Council's decisions on the creation of interim commissions of inquiry on resonating issues. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for amendments to the Ukrainian Cabinet Decision No. 1298 of 30 August 2002. Igora Artyushenko to Zaporezki City Head for information on rent payment for land leases. Igora Artyushenko is acting as head of the General Directorate of State Fiscal Services in Zaporozhye district for the provision of land tax information by tax subjects. Ivan Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Water Resources of Ukraine, Head of the Czernovetsk District Government Administration, Head of the Visniki District State Administration of the Montenegrin Region for the allocation of funds for coastal reinforcements in the villages of Dolišni Shepit, Lopushna and Lekechi of the Visniki Region of the Chernivian Region. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the financing of the construction of roads at the crossing points of the state border of the Russian-Ulma Pass and the Whisper-Izvoarele Suchevay in the region of Putil and the construction of the marked checkpoints. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the unsatisfactory response by the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine to a parliamentary request for the recalculation of pensions to former employees of internal affairs bodies. Romana Maczola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing for the implementation of infrastructure projects for water supply in the city of Polone Hmielnická Region with quality drinking water. Denisa Silanyev to the head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine regarding the review, in the course of the State Financial Audit of Port's activities, the issues of economic activity and the effectiveness of individual management of the State Enterprise and the conclusion of separate contracts. Denis Silantiev to the Director of the State Enterprise Mariopolski Maritime Trade Port on the legality and justification of the transfer of a state-owned enterprise into part-time employment. Oksana Bilozer to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the status of the preparation of the Agreement on Social Security between Ukraine and the Greek Republic and on the use of measures aimed at accelerating its harmonization and signing. Alexander Dekhtyarczuk and Vasil Janickýk to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine regarding the resolution of the criminogenic situation in the Plains region associated with illegal amber mining. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Ravenna District State Administration, Chief of Roads Service in the Rivena Region, for the allocation of funds for the current average repair of roads in the Rivena region. Vasil Janicki to the Attorney General of Ukraine, prosecutor of the Poltava region, regarding the inaction in the investigation of crimes of illegal possession and the destruction of state property of the state concert "Krogrotechservis" in the Poltavsk region. John Sporish to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the deployment of the Tomaspil region of the Winnitsky region to the Tulchin Hospital District. Yurya Solovya to the head of the Ivano-Frankow District State Administration for the construction of the road by road of the local meaning of Jablouns - Kosmach in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Jury Solovya to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the financing of the current repair of R-62 Krivorovna - Černovitsa (km 33+772 - km 41+772), which passes through the village of Kuta - Stari Kuti - Tudiv in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of benefits to national and state dendrological parks on land tax payments. Groups of National Deputies (Kyrichenko, Lensky, Kocheljeva) to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the use of measures to respond to the illegal actions of officials of the Bliznikowska RDA Kharkiv region and the illegal actions of the leadership of the Lozov GP of the National Police in Kharkiv region, the involvement of guilty persons in the responsibility established by Ukraine's legislation. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate operational intervention of the cardiostill, post-operative treatment and provision of medicines at budget costs. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for immediate intervention in the replacement of ball joints, treatment and medicine at the expense of budgetary resources. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District State Administration on the priority of the development of vocational institutions in the Lviv region. Andrija Lopushanski, head of the Lviv District State Administration for the establishment of health - care centres in the context of medical reform, is under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health of Ukraine. Oleksandra Lumbrowski's Anti-Vimbrovsky Head of the Viennese District of the Viennese District of the Viennese Region, Head of the Viennese Regional Authority of the Viennese Region, the Agronomical Rural Head of the Vinite Region, the Bohonic Rural Head of the Vinite Region, the Provincial Region of the Vinite Region, the Regional Regional Region of the Vinite Region, the Mainly Rural Region of the Vinite Region, the Ilkowian Rural Region of the Vinite Region of the Vinite Region, and the Lavrovian Rural Head of the Vinite Region of the Vinite Region, the Mainland region of the Viennecian Region of the Vincian region of the Vincian region of the Vincian region, the Main-Vincian Region of the Vincian Region of the Vincian Region of the Vincian Region of the Vincian region, the Mainlands of the Vincian Vincian region of the Vincian region of the Vincian Province, the Vincian region of the Vincian region of the Vikish region of the Vincian Province of the Vincian Province of the Vikish region of the Vikishland, the Vincian region of the Vincian region of the Vincian region of the Vincian region of the Vincian Province of the Vincian Province of the Vikish region of the Vikish region of the Vikishland. Chairman of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Court of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the National Court of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Court of Justice for Civil and Criminal Matters; Head of the Odessa, Kharkiv, Lviv, Kyiv, Žitomirski, Donetsk, Dnipropetrovski, Viennese Court of Appeal of Kiev; Heads of the Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Kiev, Odessa, Harkovsky, Harkovsky, Provincial Court of Appeal; Head of the Court of Appeal of Kiev; Heads of the Court of Appeal: Czernigowski, Volinski, Volinski, Rakowski, Harkovsky, Provinsky, Kharkivsky, Doppian Administrative Court; Head of the Court of Appeal of the City of Kjievish-Pier, Dzikop. Andrija Bjelecko and Oleg Petrenka, head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the issue of the activities of the National Guard of Ukraine, providing information on the opening of criminal conduct regarding the senior management of the National Guard of Ukraine under article 110 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, "Infringement on territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine". Andrija Biletsky and Oleg Petrenk to the commander of the National Guard of Ukraine on issues related to the activities of the National Guard of Ukraine, organization of an official investigation into the senior management of the National Guard of Ukraine. Sergija Matvienkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for timely compensation by the State of the debt of benefits and subsidies. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the absence of valid health standards in Ukraine from January 1, 2017, due to the careless execution by officials of the Ministry of Health of the Government. Sergey Lechchenka to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of obtaining temporary residence permits by foreign embassies. Paul Kishkar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine on payment to the Society with limited responsibility for the "ABI UKIN" debt for the provision of licensed software to the executive authorities in 2013. Paul Kishkar to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper investigation of the theft of property of the Open Shareholder Society "Herson cotton combination". To the chief's first deputy. Alexander Briginz to the first deputy chief of the Road Service in Kiev, head of the Regional Regional Administration of the Kyiv Region, on the need to take control of the completion of the work of repairing the local road of the O-101509 Grand Bukrin-Maslovka through Piy, the Stream of the Mironovo Region of the Kyiv Region. Borislava Bereza to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on the illegal crossing of roads of general use in the village of Petropavlovska Borschagivika Kyivo-Svetoshin region of Kyiv region. Borislav Bereza to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the inaction of officials of the law enforcement authorities of the rightful district of Kiev in conducting investigations into a number of criminal conduct. Yurya Timoshenko to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for ensuring the proper protection of the rights of members of the family of the deceased soldier Lukachuk Mikhail Bogdanović. Jury Timoshenko to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine to ensure the proper realization of the rights of the condemned. Ostapa One to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the provision of public information regarding the registration documents of the Party "Park of Peter Prashenko "Solidarity". Jury Berezi to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the renewal of former police officers in the Dnipropetrovsk region who were released in accordance with the Ukrainian National Police Act and failed to undergo an examination in accordance with the Order on the Conduct of Police Testing, approved by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine since 17 November 2015 No. 1465. Paul Rizanenka to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and municipal services in dealing with the issue of the free replacement of natural gas counters, in the event of the recognition of eligible calculus citizens, as a result of the exercise of periodic trust, such that they are unfit for further exploitation and repair. Paul Rizanenka to the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine on the organization of media outreach work on the practice of applying tax legislation of January 1, 2017, in the part of the taxation of insurance (fearing) and intimidation transactions, in accordance with the new edition of article 141, paragraph 141.1, of the Ukrainian Tax Code. Mikhail Papiev and Igor Shurma to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the submission of information to the Single Register of Judicial Investigations concerning the commission by officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine of the crime envisaged in section 2 of article 367 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the initiation of investigations into criminal offences. Oleg Osuhovski to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the results of the audit carried out on the basis of a letter from the Regional Prosecutor's Office. Alexander Vilkula to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the report of crimes related to acts or omissions having signs of official negligence (part 2 of article 367 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code), which cost the lives of tens of thousands of citizens, the violation of legislation in connection with the professional inability of the first Deputy Minister of Health of Ukraine, who was temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, Suprun Ulyana Hope. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the audit of the Ministry of Health and Service Investigation in connection with service negligence, the unsatisfactory work of the first Deputy Minister of Health of Ukraine, the temporarily acting Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Suprun Uljana Hope, and its dismissal from office. Olga Cervakova to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the improper implementation of Presidential Decree No. 446/2014 of 1 May 2014 on the change of the borders of the National Natural Park "Golosiussky". Groups of National Deputies (Conditions, Pobers, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor’s Office for the provision of full, impartial, objective, prompt investigation of criminal conduct at the number 520160000000368, on the basis of the crime provided for in article 364 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the provision of information on the conduct of pre-trial investigations in relation to officials and officials of the Uman City Council. Victor Romanyuk to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the removal by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the functions of the central executive body, resulting in the purchase of the post of Secretary of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine as a criminal group of persons associated with the involvement of L. Vishnevsky, O. Dmitra Sphenov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of citizens' rights from insurmountable housing tariffs. Dmitra Sphenov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to increase tariffs for the transport of goods by rail within Ukraine in 2017. Groups of National Deputies (Batenka, Didic and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the formation of a civilised car market. Taras Shepherd to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of the GES stunt on the Dniester River. Jurija-Bogdan Suhević to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Prime Minister of Ukraine on ignoring my legislative initiatives and deliberate non-inclusion in the agenda of the daily plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Bill No. 1170 of December 2, 2014 "For making changes and additions. Ukraine on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine and some other Ukrainian laws on the organization of payments to victims of political repression. Edward Matviychuk to the Zacarpathian Customs of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine regarding the need for an objective review of the appeal of the resident of the city of Chop Zacarpatsk, a veteran and military pensioner, who was involved in the fighting of Vasilina Yuri Mikhailovich on the issue of housing. Andrija Galchenka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Authorized Person of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals for the Elimination of Public Shareholders Association DELTA BANK, the Director of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals for Unsatisfactory Returns to Citizens of Depositary Deposits of PAT Delta Bank. Jury Lewchenk to the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office for the Non-Reporting of Criminal Offences by the City of Kiev, Vitaly Klick, to the Single Register of Probational Investigations. Helen Sotnik to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on the purpose of making use of income and on the basis of the activities of the security police. Ruslana Demczak to the Deputy Minister of Health of Ukraine, Paul Covtonyuk, for changes in the hospital districts of the Vinick region. Ruslana Demchak to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services for Change to the National Commission Regulation for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services No.2210 "Acknowledgment of the validity of the decision of the National Commission on Electricity Regulatory of Ukraine" dated 15 December 2016. Robert Gorvato to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the provision of statistical information on criminal offences motivated by racial, national, or religious intolerance. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the review of the results of the competition for free radio broadcasting licenses, including the 105.9, located in the city of Arciz Odessa district with the territory of distribution to the city of Arciz and the Arctic region, the location of the transmitter of the city of Arciz, the street of Colonel Kalmykov, 39. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to make a commission when accepting payments from the population for gas. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the restoration of roads in the Kirovograd region. Oleg Musia to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights on the restoration of the constitutional rights of pensioners and veterans of internal affairs. Sergio Laryna to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the Regional Service Centre of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in the city of Lightwater Kirovograd. Sergia Soboljeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of information on legal nuances for the expulsion of prosecutors "out of state" or to the reserve of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine and the determination of the amount of money spent on the maintenance of such prosecutors. Alexander Feldman to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, on violations of the time-limits established by legislation for the transfer of property rights to municipal property. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to increase the responsibility for illegal logging and illegal operations with timber and sawmills. Victoria Sumar to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the problems of the penetration of Russian propaganda into Ukrainian territory. Vitalia Korčika to the Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine on the implementation of the State Target Program "The Young Ukraine" for 2016-2020 in part of the social protection of young people. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for helping rural people recover their opportunities to save their lives in the light. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the possible deliberate delay in investigating the dumping of chemicals in the village of Ahmatów in the Cherkas region. Constantine Pavlov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the collapse of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health of Public Procurement for 2016-2017, which led to the absence of medicines and medical supplies at the Ukrainian medical and preventive institutions. Jury of Macedonia to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations regarding the provision of information on the activities of enterprises and organizations put forward in the request. Andrea Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the availability of medical supplies for patients. Oleg Osuhovski to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Paul Rosenck, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the restoration of the right of a disabled child to receive a pension after the loss of a breadwinner. Valentina Didić to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on negative processes and the deterioration of the situation regarding the criminal and corruption situation in Marganca Dnipropetrovsk region, which may cause significant discontent and social explosion among the city’s inhabitants. Sergey Saska to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the lack of original documents on the education of the acting Minister of Health of Ukraine, which questions the legality of her being held in office. Jury Bublika to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for violating the requirements of effective legislation by the liquidator of the PAT "Bank Mikhailski" in refusing to include investors in the register for reimbursement of funds, applying the consequences of the worthlessness of the rights filed with the bank and unlawfully requiring investors of notarized documents. Jury Bublika to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine on the cynical refusal to grant status as a participant in the fighting activities of the Department of Justice of Karbanu S.V., the cyborg of the Donetsk Airport, the Cavalry of the Order of the People's Hero of Ukraine and the marks "For the Loyalty of the People of Ukraine", the active participant in the anti-terrorist operation in 2014-2015, the patriot and the loyal defender of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our state. Vitalia Kurila to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of financing the social infrastructure of the Luhansk Region under the DFRD programme. Ljubomir Zubak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the adjustment of the formulas for the allocation of subsidies from the State budget to local budgets. Jacob Besbach to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, National Police of Ukraine for the Protection of Constitutional Rights and Freedoms of Alla Bulavko. Jacob Besbaha do. Excuse me, Mr. Bereza, can you speak a little more quietly? Jacob Besbach to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights on the protection of the constitutional rights of Polina Kravchenko. Yurya Shapovalova to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of a bridge crossing through the Dnipro River in the city of Kremenchuki Poltava. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the restructuring of the debt of thermal energy enterprises to the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine", such as the KP "Harkovské thermal networks". Igora Lucenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the conduct of a competition for the head of the National Police. Sergia Eutuska to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the organization of free nutrition for children affected by the Chernobyl disaster and in educational institutions located in the area of radioactive contamination of the Rhine region. Ladies and gentlemen, I know what you have to do when I read your questions, in accordance with the requirements of the law. But I would be very grateful if you could lower the tone of the conversation a little bit, because it's just physically difficult. Thank you very much. Anna Romanova to Prime Minister of Ukraine on information about the blackmail of the village councils of Montenegro by stopping suburban trains. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the recovery of the benefits and social guarantees of participants in the liquidation of the consequences of the accident at the Chernobyl AES. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Head of the Ivano-Frankov Regional Administration for Danger and Negative Social Resonance around the construction of hydroelectric power plants along the Dniester River, within the borders of Johno-Frankivsky, Ternopil and Chernivsky regions, with the aim of preventing sub-warming of populated sites and harmful effects on the Dniestrovo Canyon ecosystem. Andrija Galchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the groundless delay of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the deadlines for the introduction of medical reference prices in Ukraine. Alexander Zholobeckov to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the removal of land from the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence and on the further transfer to the continued use of the Mikolai Town Palace of Culture and Arts. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to provide State support to the Separate Units of the "Girska Checkout" and the "Goldenmen" of the State Enterprise "The First Handicraft". Sergey Leschchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the possibility of anticompetitive concerted action by Pat "The Lenin Cushroom Factory" during public procurement. Alexander Marchenka is under the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to finance the cost - effective treatment of cancer patients, such as fighters and ATO veterans. Alexia Hotcharenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to intervene personally in solving the issues that have arisen around the agroholding of UkrLandFarming. Natalia Katser-Buchovsky to the Executive Director of the Public Shareholders Association Kiyivenergo on the theft of thermal energy metering and hot water supply. Taras Pasteuch to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the Supreme Special Court of Ukraine on civil and criminal matters relating to the number of open and closed criminal conduct, as well as the sentences passed on persons suspected/accused of committing crimes provided for in articles 109-114 and 401-435 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code for the period 2014-2016. Juriya Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing in 2017 of the renovation of the road of general use of state importance in the Orutsky region of the Žitomir region. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the transfer of the Zynkowski Agrarian List from state to municipal property. Sergey Kaplina to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the investigation of illegal passenger transport in Poltawa. Groups of National Deputies (Levika, Tvacuka and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on numerous facts. [[B in m in s a l in]] to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on numerous violations of Ukrainian legislation by the leadership of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine, institutions, organizations and enterprises that are part of it. Sergei Rudika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Finance Minister of Ukraine, on the need to increase the level of advance for road construction work from 30 per cent to 50 per cent of total funding, as well as to anticipate the possibility of making prior payments for goods, jobs and services to carry out socio-economic development measures in separate areas. Vitalia Kuril to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to increase funding from the State budget of Ukraine to support the Ukrainian Society of the Deaf. Sergia Aleksiev and Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the government of the public shareholders' association "Ukrainian Railway", acting as head of the regional branch of the "Lviv Railway" of the Public Shareholders' Association "Ukrainian Railway" to solve the conflict situation around the land areas that lie within the lines of the withdrawal of the railway in the Volodimirsky region of the Rhine region. Sergia Alekseyev and Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Equality District State Administration for the Treatment of Cancer Diseases in the Plain region. The Gennady of Krivoshei to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding numerous violations during the pre-trial investigation of the Odessa Hotel of the State Enterprise Odes Sea Trade Port. The Gennady of Krivoschi to the Attorney General of Ukraine on numerous violations during the investigation of the Quarantine Mall accident. Alexander Revega and Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the addition of a list of categories of persons entitled to receive social and psychological assistance at social and psychological rehabilitation centres. Vladimir Melnicka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of pension funds to former IMF employees. Vladimir Melnicken to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amendments to the Ukraine Code of Land. Svetlana Zalishtuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for higher education institutions that have been transferred from the temporarily occupied territory. Igor Popovado Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration on the need to form a new composition of the Central Electoral Commission. Victor Wolfe to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on international legal status and enforcement of the Memorandum of Understanding on Security Safeguards in connection with Ukraine's accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons of 5 December 1994 and its consequences for international order and the global regime on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. Igor Lapin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures against those who call for the legitimacy of undeclared republics. Igora Lapina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the use of Ukrainian TES coal, which is mined in the uncontrollable territory of Donetsk and Lugansk regions. Jaroslava Markevich to the Prosecutor of the Kharkiv Region on the status of investigation of criminal conduct Nos. 320162000000209 from 8 August 2016 and No. 420162220001123 from 20 December 2016. Mikoli Kucher, until the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health regarding the state - owned purchase of drugs for oncological children with a short term of suitability through international organizations. Oleg Dmitrenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the pollution of the Oster River in the Chernigiv region. Victor Krivenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on delaying payment to a limited-liability company "ABI UKRAIN" in debt for the provision of licensed software to executive authorities in 2013. Vladimir Parasuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of garbage disposal in the territory of the former state mining and chemical company Sirka, located in the Yavorov region of Lviv. Vladimir Parasuka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the investigation into the possible abuse of power or the position of head of the Zowkow District State Administration, Stur Nadija Stepanovna, in the use of public funds to finance the social areas of the Zowkow region. Groups of people’s deputies (Palatno, Lucenko and others) A total of 10 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on speeding up the submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, in connection with the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Violence. Groups of National Deputies (Nayema, Sotnik, Zalitschuk) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information to the Ukrainian National Deputies on the results of the testing of candidates for the appointment of Director, First Deputy Director and Deputy Director of the State Bureau of Investigation. Sergia Marvienkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the regulation of electricity prices for urban electricity transport. Dimitar Timchuk to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Head of Security of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine for Military Service, who in 2014 left the mainland of Ukraine from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Groups of National Deputies (Palamarchus, Luchniak, and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the verification of the facts of cooperation between the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Omelan W.V. and his advisor, Klinin O.P. and Dornier Consulting contrary to the interests of Ukraine and the ability to qualify such actions as State betrayal. Mr. Andrija Šinkovič to the procurator of the Hmelnicka District, acting as Head of State Fiscal Service in the Hmelnicka Region, Head of Hmelnicka Regional Water Management, Director of the Department of Ecology and Natural Resources of the Hmelnicka District State Administration, to verify the legality of use of the land of the water fund of the Kuzminsky Ornithological Order. Andrija Shinkovič to the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the State Environmental Inspection of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to prevent environmental pollution in the village of Volica Krasilov County of Hmeljna Region. Yurya Bereza until acting as head of the National Police Directorate in Dnipropetrovska oblast on the inaction of the Dniprovov Police Department of the National Police Department in Dnipropetrovska District on application of the widow of the police police regiment Dnipro-1, Baranichenko Natalija Kokivni on the disappearance of his son, Baranichenko Vladislav Aleksandrovitch. Ruslan Sidorovich to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the inappropriate response to parliamentary appeals by officials of the Ukrainian National Police. Valeria Davidenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District State Administration on the need to establish a hospital district in Chernigiv district with a centre in the town of Bachmach. Valeria Davidenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District State Administration on the need to rename the potential hospital district of Chernigivsky to the North Hospital District and change its centre to the city of Men. Leonidas Hamtsa, head of the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, on the need to take immediate action in response to the threat of ten residential buildings being destroyed as a result of construction on 9-11A Street in the Pecher district of Kiev. Jury Levchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the reply to the parliamentary request of 8 December 2016, requiring the verification of the legality of the conduct of pre-trial investigations into criminal conduct and the use of response measures for the repeated criminal acts of members of the Tarutin People's Republic of Arcian GNP in the Odessa region, the local prosecutor's office and the inaction of the Odessa District Prosecutor's Office during criminal conduct. Jury of Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to increase the size of the office salary (tariff board, wage rates) of staff member 1 of the tariff level of institutions, institutions and organizations in separate areas of the budget area. Jury Devyanka to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates the state’s energy and utility sectors, is of the essence of bringing electricity tariffs used for street lighting in populated areas and for electricity transport to an economically sound level. Robert Gorvato to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of waste materials for the treatment of patients through peritoneal dialysis of the Zacarpathian health facilities. Mr. Oxana Korczynski to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for the conduct of an investigation into the position of Major General Krishtun, acting as Chief of the Armed Forces of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Chief of the Armed Forces of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Oksana Korczynski to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the possibility of further military service in the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces for disabled military personnel. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, Odessa District State Administration, Odessa City Council on the need to provide assistance for the proper and comprehensive treatment of the resident of the Kyiv district of Odessa, a participant in the fighting activities of Litvin Olga Mikhailovna. Paul Dzüblik until he was temporarily acting as Ukrainian Minister of Health for the project of the residential districts of the Žitomir region. Paul Djublik to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine on improper conduct of the management of the State Environmental Inspectorate in the Žitomir region. Alexander Sugonjako to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the provision of information on the terms of consideration of separate legal acts governing the arrangements for the organisation of passenger transport. Alexander Romanovski to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the conduct of an official investigation into the actions (inaction) of the Head of the National Police in Dnipropetrovsk district of Igor Volodymirovich. We still have answers to requests from Ukrainian national deputies who are not satisfied with national MPs. And they demand statements in connection with the improper response to their request. We've got this. Such a requirement from the national deputy Sergei Leschchenka. Three minutes to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u86	Good afternoon, Ukraine! In this semi-empty room, I'm going to talk about how the newly created anti-corruption body -- the Anti-Corruption Agency -- actually pulled itself away from doing its job. You remember the whole country watching over these electronic declarations, the echelons of cash, all these immovable objects of property abroad. And I put a request on the name of NAZK’s director, Mrs. Korczak, for the undeclared President of the Dusty Villa in Marbela, Spain, on the shore of the Mediterranean Sea. As you know, the scheme journalists have conducted investigations and even filmed this house that is missing from the President's declaration. And I got an answer from Mrs. Korczak that they were going to check it out in the future. When that happens, we don't know. In fact, they were removed from their responsibilities. I began to find out. It turns out, dear Ukrainians, this anti-corruption body whose leaders are getting paid -- think about it! - for 200,000 dollars, they haven't checked any electronic declaration until today. So everything that's been done, everything that's been declared, no one's checking it out, and actually corruption can feel calm. Interestingly, we see the same process as, for example, one of the MPs who is known to be televolics with pitchforks, with cows, he went to rest, bought a ticket for 108 thousand dollars, to Thailand. Similarly, a group of Eurooptimists sent a request to Mrs. Korczak to check why the ticket was not shown in the special section of the electronic declaration on substantial changes in property. [[B in m in s a l in]] The answer was: We are not interested in this, we are concerned about ourselves, we have very important matters involved in political persecution. [[B in m in s a l in]] An interesting process is taking place in the country. You know, anti-corruption authorities, for example, have written a report on corruption by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, an independent body, that Katerina Vezeleva has read a training for the German fund Friedrich Ebert for 10,000 dollars there. The whole D.A., the D.A. went to court, proved, only today, I want to welcome Catherine, she won an appeal after the first body convicted her. Another example. The U.S.S.A. is following Yulia Maruszewski, who worked at the Odessa customs office on March 8th for all customs women, including the prize. Do you know how big? 500 bucks. And that's what the BSO is doing, and this is specifically the First Deputy of the BSB, Demchina, who is looking at the President there, who's doing all of these political things, on short notice in Granovski. And what's important is that it's the BAF in its electronic declaration that's secret and no one can check and see how BAF leaders live, how girls live, how all these people live.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u87	Thank you. Your three minutes are up. Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Andriy Shinkovitch. Ladies and gentlemen, three minutes is enough to express your position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! I was forced to speak out of the rostrum by the situation around the reduction of accessibility for the Ukrainian population by rail transport, the absence of compensatory measures to ensure central authority in cooperation with the local authorities. But the real outrage was the answer to my parliamentary request from the regional branch of the South West Railway, which is part of the structure of the Crucifixion. In my request, I asked the head of the South West Railway to resume the train on the Hmelnicki-Strakostintini route or, if impossible, to change the timetable of the Hmelnicki-Shepetovka train, because this problem concerns residents of the villages of the Gardens, Hotchkowci, Veremyivka, Klimashivka, Kalinivka, Antonini, Kuzmin, Rosolovci, Manovci, Kremenchug, West, Vronkovci, others, I will not list everyone. The elimination of the Hmelnicki-Starocostantini train has led to a number of inconveniences: people need to get to school, to work, to medical establishments of the cities of Starocostin, Shepetyvka, Hmelnicki. In response to me, chosen on the 189th major constituency, I deliberately emphasized this, the South West Railway told me about both the proceeds, and the passengers, and the damages, and the absence of electric trains and diesel trains, all except solutions. And the systemic question is, it's not just about hops and villages in my constituency. The question of the elimination of trains, the unwillingness of the officials responsible to find an effective decision on the arrival of passengers is complete throughout Ukraine. First of all, I call on the authorities of Cruiseways and the Ministry of Infrastructure as a whole not to look at passenger transport from a cost-effective point of view: whether 50 people have to go or 5 people have to go. Once and for all, accept the rule: passenger transport is a social service, not a business. You have to drive people, but instead of the big and old electric trains or diesel trains, you have to solve the question, or the less convenient transport, or the less expensive kind of trains. They are in the world. And the main thing is, secondly, I encourage the Crucifixion to review the train schedule and make it comfortable for people. You write to me in answer to the question, "The train arrives in Whispering at 5:26 p.m. and please continue to move on to other trains. Come to Hmelnicki at night." What can you do to a man at night in Hmmelnick? What kind of hospital will she go to at night? Are there comfortable halls of expectation at railway stations? No, it's not. Why don't you sit down at 5:26, come to Hmelnicki and look for shelter in the middle of the night? You, Your Honor, if you make an offer or answer to the people’s deputies, consider that your answers are read, read, and graded. We call on the local authorities, and we call on the Cruise Station to do it, to connect trains with passenger bus transport and make passenger transports for people. Think of the person, the student, the old woman who uses these transports. And don't compare, distinguished representatives of the Crossroads, by themselves, because you don't ride with your trains! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u89	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the Shurma People's Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u90	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today, I want to talk to you about how effectively we use international loans and everything we do in our health care. In 2015, the World Bank entered into an agreement between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. And an agreement was made to give Ukraine 6 billion dollars to improve health care in the service of the people. You remember how the government here supported by the coalition gave full authority to the Cabinet of Ministers, including the Ministry of Health. What do we have today after the promises of the former minister of Kwiatashvili: everything will be tomorrow, by the end of the week, by the end of the year? Today, we have an incomplete government, since 10 months of unstaffed office as health minister are the reason for our failure to do so. There's no such thing in the world. The minister’s responsibilities for today, who claimed full responsibility for the situation, cannot answer today how 6 billion dollars have been used. I'll remind you, it's even more than budgeted to buy all the drugs for a year in Ukraine. So this is the situation for today after the reports that are being submitted (this report was submitted at the official request of the National MP and the response to the Prime Minister's orders) only 60 million dollars have been recovered. But what is interesting is that more than 80 percent of this amount of money used went, not to repair outpatients or to buy medical equipment or to develop some new technology or offer some kind of health - care reform, but to pay consultants and seminars. Think about it, 80 percent, more than 30 million dollars went to the organization! This has made it easier for health - care workers who today have no treatment for the sick? This made it easier for patients who come to the hospital and for their money to buy medicine, and in addition to the hatred of the medical staff, and then to the authorities come out of this hospital, at best, if they come out alive and healthy. The worst part is that it's not a 6 billion aid, it's a loan. And every year, Ukraine pays interest for those costs, because this is a loan this year, and in the past year, there are payments -- it's almost 700,000 dollars for just this money lying there and not knowing where. And with money, we have a problem: in 2016, 4 billion have gone abroad, no money, no drugs, but the minister says there are percentages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! We've completed our consideration of the question of MPs and I'm calling it a 12-hour break for 50 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u92	All right, I think we're ready to get back to work. Please prepare to record. Prepared? No, not yet. Please record only with your own buttons, you remember. People can't. I would like to see the words of the People's Deputy Volodymyr Litvin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, noted physicist Richard Feynman in one of the lectures at the University of California of Technology, gave an example, and the lecture was called "Science of Air Worship," which was carried out by an aircraft in the ocean on the island under extraordinary circumstances. Then the locals, who were amazed by this phenomenon, constructed something similar to a plane made of stones, branches, and prayed to their god that he would fly away. The plane didn't take off, and they were expecting the white gods to come back and help them do it. This is exactly how we copy reforms. Moving to Ukrainian soil without any consideration of the situation, what we have loudly called radical and extremely necessary transformations. I have to speak again, taking into account people’s demands that good intentions, particularly those of raising the minimum wage, have become enormous problems. Dear colleagues, go to some medical institutes and hospitals in Kiev, I don't say any more, around the neighborhood, and you'll see that they're closing entire offices, making people go on unpaid vacations to solve this problem. No one has calculated anything, and in places it turns out to be a complete disaster, especially in the area of health care. People are just destined to die. Unfortunately, these findings do not in any way penetrate the Reformers in Kiev. Another problem. The decision that was made to finance only the salaries of doctors and teachers, while utilities and salaries of technical personnel were financed from the local budget, was a major disaster. Hospitals and schools have begun to be closed down, reports the local budget, but it has not been calculated that there are clearly depressed areas, clearly depressed areas. We need to solve this problem, a bill has been prepared, and there will be a bill to recover funding from government subsidies from the health and education system. I'd like to ask my colleagues next week to ask us to put a bill on the table and make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u94	Thank you. Welcome to Yuri-Bogdan Shuhevich's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u95	Dear Ukrainian people! Today, I want to speak of the pitiful existence of former political prisoners, former repressors, those who fought for the will and independence of Ukraine in their time. In due time, the Cabinet of Ministers' illegal decrees gave them a 50-dollar pension allowance — think about it! - 50 bucks. And that's a fixed amount, and that's what they're giving to you today, you know? To this day, the entire amount has been fixed, but it has not been paid. In time, I organized, so to speak, an appeal to the courts. Yeah, there were subpoenas, we won those lawsuits. Thousands of people have won lawsuits, but the Pension Fund has not paid for it, the executive department has refused to execute court decisions, and so to the day. In Lviv, Black Bogdan made it, reached the Supreme Administrative Court, and when the refusal of the executive service came, he received a stroke and is now paralyzed. People in despair when I came to the Supreme Council, in a few days I registered Bill 1170, which provides for a solution. People who should and should by law get 50 percent of their minimum pension, which they get, they don't get anything. And think about it, instead of 600 bracelets today, they're given zero, while donors -- 150 and other categories are much more -- they're being robbed. My bill has been in place since December 2014, and is still pending. I have appealed to the leadership of the Supreme Council, to the Prime Minister, and I demand that Bill 1170 be introduced here. If not, I am, because I am being approached by political prisoners. Feder and others are demanding that I block the rostrum. And I'm willing to do that, and I'm going to block the rostrum because the bill is there. A positive conclusion from the Chief Expert Office, the Professional Committee, and it's not being considered. True, it was the last question today. On Friday! Think about it!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u96	Please give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u97	So I'm ready for this, and I'll be, if I have to block, and I won't come down. This is what my friends, former political prisoners, my brothers, and my sisters require, and I must obey their orders. [[Applause]] Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u98	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of the National Deputy, Irina Konstankević. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u99	Dear national MPs, dear Ukrainians, dear oxen! I would also like to address the effectiveness and effectiveness of the reforms that our government is initiating, and which we stand for as national MPs, but which are actually, in fact, in places where there are numerous violations and there are characteristics or distortions, or distortions. An example is my native Volin and the abuse we see in the allocation and distribution of agricultural land. In particular, I wanted to put a stop to the fact that it's been happening for the past two years on Volina, which is the actions of the head of the General Directorate of the Dergeokadastr in the Volinsky region of Vasilenko. In particular, I have received many references from the heads of the rural and rural councils of the Kivertsi district, Manevic district, Shak district, where the facts of the hundreds of hectares of land of the agricultural assignment that this high official distributes according to the principle: therefore, ladies, therefore, ladies, and therefore I will not give. He is a man who, in his position as such, is unfortunately governed, not by laws, but only by other principles and pursues only his beneficial goals. Unfortunately, no decisions have yet been made by the law enforcement authorities and no assessment has been given of Mr. Vasilek’s actions. That's why I'm calling from this high rostrum and Mr. Vladimir Groysman and the Minister of Agriculture. The Ministry of Agriculture of Mr. Taras Kutov, in order to evaluate the abuse of the head of the District Office of the State Department of the Land of Agriculture, is the most affected by the fact that farmers who do not have the opportunity to use the land in their livestock needs, which is so important today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u100	Thank you. The nation’s deputy Moseschuk gave the floor to the national deputy Lyszka. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u101	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, I would like to inform you that the power of today continues to advance on your social, economic rights. Today, there are nearly 50 signatures from the Comprador coalition, which is not legally in conformity with the Constitution, but there is a coalition of robbers who want to take the sacred Ukrainian land to Ukrainian peasants who want to take Ukraine’s future. These members of the Coalition of Compradors, the robbers, signed an application to the Constitutional Court for recognition of an unconstitutional moratorium, my moratorium, which was supported here in Parliament, on the prohibition of the sale of agricultural land. This is one battle front. And the Constitutional Court, which once served Yanukovich, by repealing the Constitution, today will apparently also take under sheep'seye "what will you choose?"to try to cancel our moratorium, which protects the right of future generations of Ukrainians to own their own land. The other front of the fight is prepared by the Compradorian authorities, the coalition of robbers, the Memorandum of Understanding with the International Monetary Fund, which also provides for the establishment of the land market, which is actually to rob the peasants into thread. Because today, if the land market and the millions of hectares were to be marketed, prices were not available, or they would go down for a penny at all, and the very needy would take the land away, and tomorrow our children would be walking on this earth. As in the classic, you remember, "Whose land? - It's potassium. - Whose land? - Kalytina. These new castes, let them, parasites, go into the liver! They want to take away from you, dear peasants, the land, so that there may be no cow in the village, that there may be no work in the village, that there may be no light, no water, and no life. That's what it means to take the land. Because they are primarily interested in earnings. They can't eat at all, they've got those earrings on your hill, my dear needy peasants. But we will not allow the authorities of compadres and robbers to rob you. You have a reliable defense, and your shield is Oleg Lachka's Radical Party. We ask the authorities to submit to a national referendum and ask the Ukrainians whether they support the sale of land, or whether they support the increase in retirement age, as the authorities suggest. We demand power: Hands off our land! Because I'm breaking your hands and your feet to the ground for the Ukrainian people!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u102	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Yuri Odarchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u103	Dear voters! Dear Ukrainians! Yuri Odarchenko, Hersonian Region The government is now saying a lot about the need to reduce the costs of the Pension Fund and that the requirement of the International Fund is to raise the retirement age, essentially narrowing the rights and standard of living of pensioners. The government is doing nothing to reduce the budget's spending on other needs or to adopt the bills that the "Fatherland" party has been proposing in connection with de-offshoring and taxation of dividend income. Instead, on this week, the government of Groisman is introducing a bill to Parliament to avoid double taxation with Luxembourg. I want citizens to know how cynical the position today of the government of Groysman is that, against the backdrop of statements of the need to increase retirement age, there is a completely cynical, rude, hammish-like attempt to introduce a law that would ratify the Treaty signed by the government of Desertland in 2007 on the avoidance of double taxation with Luxembourg. Citizens may not fully understand what it is. But, Your Honor, these are the same offshores that the government is trying not only to cancel, but to introduce new schemes to make their profits. So you can understand what it is to avoid double taxation with Luxembourg. It's a much worse scheme than it is today with offshore firms in Cyprus. Luxembourg is the main EU centre for off-shore banking financial services. In 2016, out of 147 banks registered in Luxembourg, only 7 had non-offshore status. Luxembourg does not disclose any information about the final beneficiaries of bank accounts or property without a court decision to which a three - year stand is recorded. Regrettably, Luxembourg did not join the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters and, as a result of the ratification of this convention, Ukraine is receiving the effect of the second Cyprus, which is currently only interesting in terms of the exemption from passive income taxes. However, after a well - known scandal, it must reveal information about the beneficiaries. I think we think it's a great shame when instead of giving the benefits back to the black people, the Afghans, the government is doing everything they can to open another offshore hole, into which they can spend their money.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u104	Thank you. Next is the national deputy Yuri Bublik, who exchanged places with the national deputy Igor Lucenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u105	Thank you. Yuri Bublik, 145 constituency, Poltavščina, non-party, non-fractional, and there's a "Peter Prashenko's Block" written on the board, which is not true, that's not true. Why is it not true, since on January 18, I was given an appropriate message in the name of the Head of the Supreme Council of Paris. From January 18th to this day, the head of the Supreme Council is ashamed to read it, so he is forced to help the Head of the Supreme Council and to report it. In accordance with article 60, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report my withdrawal from the party's deputy faction "Block of Peter Prashenko". In order to secure my exit from the Coalition of Deputies of the "European Ukraine" I hereby announce the withdrawal of my signature under the Agreement on the Coalition of Deputies of the "European Ukraine". In addition, in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules, I requested that this report be announced at the nearest plenary meeting, which unfortunately did not happen. We have this strange situation today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where there's some kind of coalition missing, but somehow there, I don't know what the rules are. Today, there are a number of deputies who believe that they have left the coalition, but they are actually there because the relevant messages have not yet been announced by the Head of the Supreme Council. It is said that this is not regulated by the Supreme Council’s Rules, but when so convincingly invited to the coalition, to the faction, it was settled. Today, I am not ready for the further reason that I have written a statement that I am not ready to share in any further division of power. That's why my constituency, my Poltavian. I'll name just a few abuses that have taken place. This is the State Architectural Inspectorate, where there's clearly a $1-to-declaration tariff for the start of work, $1 per declaration for the entry into service. All the builders come to me as a deputy to complain, which I can't influence at all, and there's no way to break this corruption component, unfortunately, that's not working. What about the Holdgeokadastre when in my native village, where I was born, grew up and lived, the Holdgeokadastre scavengered the land, came to the village cemeteries. I'm warning you, there are graves already inundated with some kind of government act. And with the last drop, it's usually the horror of customs that happens after the imports of cremated gas, where the Kurchenk scheme is fully restored. So I want the coalition to succeed. I am no longer ready to participate in this crime. Whoever shares my position, please write your statements, come out and announce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u106	Thank you. Indeed, there was a call from the national deputy, and he sounded it. Coalition activity is unregulated because it is regulated today only in the Constitution of Ukraine, so far no changes have been made to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, unfortunately. And so the order of entry as well as the exit of the coalition, so far it's unknown and regulated, let's say, customary parliamentary law, if you could call it. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Mr. Olen Ledovianski. Please. The national deputy of Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u107	Dear Chairman, distinguished peoples of the deputies, honourable Ukrainians! I want to draw your attention to an alarming situation that may happen if we do not respond in time. As we know, in Kharkiv, which I represent, Ukraine's largest higher education facility is the Kharkiv National University of Internal Affairs. But the quality training of future investigators may be at risk. I have verified information that certain interested communities lobby for changes to the Higher Education Act, which provides for the removal of the "Follower" specialty from the list of legal professions and the transfer of it exclusively to law enforcement professions. This would seem insignificant to many, in fact, to cause irreparable harm to the entire criminal bloc of the National Police. According to statistics, 98 percent of criminal conduct is carried out through the National Police, and it is the investigation police that in most cases qualify as the primary criminal offence under the Criminal Procedure Code, which is a purely legal direction. So these proposals to the Higher Education Act could result in the actual destruction of the Institute of Investigations in Ukraine. Simply put, the future investigator will lack the necessary knowledge, qualifications, and skills to carry out his duties. The question is, Why is this being done? It's very simple: chasing a government order. Higher education institutions that train lawyers are interested in keeping the number of such NCDs as small as possible. For no one is the secret that almost every higher institution today, even technically, is releasing lawyers. But let's set our priorities: how well the future investigator is prepared directly depends on the outcome of the fight against crime, and then on the safety of every Ukrainian citizen. Dear National Deputies! You and I have already passed many laws on law enforcement reform. I call upon all of you, present and absent, to be true patriots, to show indifference and responsibility and to prevent changes that can cause irreparable harm to the entire law enforcement system. Thank you. I hope you'll be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u108	Thank you. As the person who initiates these changes, I'm willing to come to you on a faction to explain the nature of the changes that you're so afraid of, in which there's really nothing to worry about. And that's the only thing, but this is about my initiative. Of course I'm not, I'm not appealing to the author, I'm just suggesting that I'm ready to explain. [[B in m in s a l in]] He's lying to Valeriovich! I'd like to have a word with you. I invite you to hear the words of the national MP Martovitchki, who was given the word of the national deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u109	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The situation in the Western Donbas region with the supply of drinking water is almost catastrophic. The water supply to the region is provided by the water supply company Dnipro-West Donbas, which provides drinking water to the population of the cities of Pavograd, Ternivka, Prvotravensk, Sinielnikovo, Pavlovdski, Petropavlovski and Synełniki district of the population of 300,000 inhabitants. Consumers of this water: 11 health care facilities, 3 maternity homes, 72 kindergartens, 79 secondary and vocational education facilities, 17 enterprises, including 10 coal-based enterprises and the Pavlovgrad mining and enrichment plant, which for many years provide the energy security of our state. In almost 30 years of operation, without capital repairs, more than 80 percent of the pipelines have worked and require substantial renovations. Unwarranted water loss is more than 30 percent, and energy consumption exceeds 30 million kilowatts per hour per year. All of these measures require a steady increase in water tariffs for consumers, but these are not the most desirable measures that do not improve the financial situation of an enterprise that has been cost-effective for many years, which has not been able to pay its workers on time, and to purchase the necessary water-filtering, reagents. In March 2016, a working group of leading water and energy professionals was established, which carefully studied the technical state of the pipeline and developed proposals to reduce energy consumption with financial calculations of the cost of capital repairs and the installation of modern equipment. In order to bring the Dnipro-West Donbas to the right state of mind, it takes 170 million dollars. In 2016, part of the work being done by the working group was started, but it's being done at a very unsatisfactory pace, including because of the lack of funds. As Ukraine’s national deputy, I was asked by the West Donbassians to help solve this very important issue. In view of the above, I am addressing you, Prime Minister, honourable colleagues, with the request to support the 300,000 inhabitants of western Donbas and to address the urgent issue of financing capital repairs, replacing the modern equipment of the Dnipro-West Donbas Water Force, which will allow the continued uninterrupted supply of drinking water to the region, significantly reduce the energy efficiency of the enterprise and reduce the tariffs on water supply and water supply for the population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u110	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Igor Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u111	Dear fellow citizens, dear colleagues, I would like to inform you of another crime committed by the management of the National Bank of Ukraine. On December 14, 2016, the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Valeria Gontareva, addressed a very presumptuous and unceremonious letter, named the Supreme Court of Ukraine, with a poor demand to force all courts to decide matters in favour of the National Bank of Ukraine. According to a letter from the chief of the NBA, the financier requires the judicial branch to apply the same rules of banking law in the course of handling cases involving the annulment of the decisions of the NBA. I'm going to remind you that at the present time, the courts have cancelled Nazbank's decision to withdraw licences for the liquidation of 11 banks. So in 11 cases, the courts confirmed the absolute non-professionalism of the leadership of the National Bank of Ukraine. That would be the verdict for any NBA manager, but not the Pottery one. On the other hand, the NBU in the person of Gottareva believes that it can give direction to the court and require that the courts, in principle, do not dare to challenge its decision. I would like to inform Mrs. Gotarevo, who obviously does not know the basic foundations of justice that the Supreme Court, in all respects, is not a management office for lower courts. And Mr. Romanyuk himself, his head, is not the ruler of all the judges of Ukraine. This may be a revelation for Pottery, but by law each judge decides on his own or in his own form. The Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine cannot simply call the judges and give them instructions on how to make decisions. I believe that such appeals by the National Bank of Ukraine are a component of a criminal offence, an attempt to cover those violent crimes for billions of dollars that are being committed for the benefit of Mrs. Rozkov and Mrs. Hontareva. I guarantee that next week there will be a series of public actions that will require, first and foremost, the law enforcement agencies, a proper legal assessment of the actions of Rozkova and Gontareva. I hope that soon it will be through the corrupt leadership of the National Bank of Ukraine to communicate with the court, not in its present status, but in the status of the accused. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u112	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u113	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. In view of the fact that there is no concept of a health - care strategy for the third year of reformation, the subject of hospital districts is now extremely dramatic in society. There were completely unexpected problems, people outraged by the incomprehensible distribution of areas, even taking action to increase the number of districts and change the approved boundaries. The residents of Winnitzkina, Volini, Kharkiv region are calling for such abuse to be stopped in the medical sector. In the district government, are they referring to an instruction from above about how many districts there should be? And they don't take reasonable comments from the residents of the area. But the question of defining the boundaries of the hospital districts is the competence of the local communities alone, and the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Health should monitor only the methodology and technical criteria for the formation of the district. For example, in Winnitzkin, by the way, the home of the President and Prime Minister of Ukraine, it can be argued that in the practice of creating hospital districts, it can lead to a real reduction in the network of facilities and thus the release of people. That this project is antihuman, this pseudoreform will cause some of the population to lose access to emergency medical care. And in the case of insufficient hospitals, the basic principle of medical form is that citizens have access to medical care. Such extremely important steps in the area of health care should normally be taken, and logically, the establishment of the hospital districts should normally, and logically, be implemented after successful testing in the form of experiments. I would like to point out that, as of today, no one has annulled the current article 49 of the Constitution, which prohibits the reduction of the network of public and municipal health facilities. In doing so, Ukraine’s health - care legislation again defines the network as a group of health - care facilities that provide health - care services for the population in the area concerned. The government should point out that the authors of the so - called reform have completely failed. All of this leads to increased social tension in society. The crisis continues to worsen. Today, it is necessary to suspend the Government Order 932, until a specific plan has been drawn up by the Ministry of Health, and an approved plan, a complete package of necessary normative documents, and consultations have been put in place. and a discussion on the ground. If we're talking about decentralization, then the communities themselves have to confirm the number and boundaries of the hospital districts, and the process of creating the districts should be public, open and approved at the sessions of district, city and district councils. This will be the basis for their creation. Hospital districts have to be shaped by people. What about today? To this day, people go to the clinic to see if they are being followed by money, as Mrs. Suprun had promised. They came to the clinic, and there's no money for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u114	Thank you. I invite you to hear the words of the People’s Deputy Solovia, to whom Ishchenko, a national deputy, spoke. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u115	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the timely reform that has been carried out in our immediate neighbours -- Poland, Hungary, Romania, or even in Bulgaria in terms of decentralization of power -- has resulted in the fact that these countries are now moving much faster and more dynamic than Ukraine. This is because the starting conditions were completely different, and Ukraine had a much greater economic, intellectual and human potential at the start. In a country like Ukraine, it is not possible to make quality and effective decisions when these decisions are taken in the center. And we have an example, a 20-year-old example of government governance, a model of central leadership, and it has the results that every Ukrainian is experiencing today. And I think that perhaps the most important reform that the Ukrainian Parliament started was the reform of the territorial administration or the reform of the decentralization of the Ukrainian government. It is difficult, it is not easy, but this reform has been initiated and is being implemented in our country today. The essence of this reform is very simple -- the transfer of authority and the transfer of resources from Kiev to places so that people can choose for themselves the power that will function in the interests of those who choose this power. And today, this reform is moving in Ukraine, and more than 300 communities are working in Ukraine. I am grateful to every parliamentarian who voted and supported three important historical bills to promote further decentralization in Ukraine yesterday, this is also the Oil Spot Bill (4772), a bill to empower the elderly working in places (4742) and it is a bill to transfer to the united territorial communities the powers and resources of local self-government. But are these bills enough today to complete this reform by 2017? Obviously not. Today, we have not been able to include in the agenda the 5520 bill on the unification of villages in different areas. And that's why I'm addressing Parliament's leadership. As soon as possible, at the next plenary session, to bring to Parliament the question of how to bring the bill into line. I refer separately to the government. Reform cannot last forever. It must have a beginning and must have an end, all the more important for Ukraine is the decentralization of power. I think 2017 should happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u116	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u117	I believe that 2017 should be a year for both the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian Government to complete the decentralization reform, which, I believe, will give a tremendous impetus to Ukraine's development, as it will enable people directly to manage those communities and the leadership they choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u118	Thank you. I invite you to hear the words of the People’s Deputy of Moseschuk, who was given the word of the People’s Deputy of Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u119	Dear Ukrainian people, today's sales, the Compradorian majority in Parliament, the Compradorian government and the Compradorian authorities in general are doing everything to destroy the Ukrainian economy, to destroy the very essence of Ukraine, in order to take the most precious treasure of our nation, the Ukrainian land. This Parliamentary Hall runs a variety of mice, collecting signatures for the commission of agrarian oligarchs and foreigners, signatures submitted to the Constitutional Court to cancel the moratorium on land, so that foreigners can come to the country with the blood of Ukrainians -- and take away our native Ukrainian land from us. The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk will not allow this thieving plan. The other one. Now on Prikarpata, a moratorium on the removal of roundwood from Ivano-Frankish is being exported by coaches of the forest in the form of wood. That's a fact. And if customs don't do that, then our one-party, members of the Radical Party of Frankish will block these wagons, show the whole world. I want to assure the customs officials that your theft plans are well known. In the past year, it turns out that no roundwood cube has been removed from French, but wood has been removed. Finally, there is a war in the country. A lot of people are discussing the blockade of cooperation with so-called DNRs, LNRs. But what you can talk about is if cooperation goes to companies that are directly affiliated to the Russian Federation that have changed the sign and continue to work for the Russian budget, to the Russian defense industry. It's about a company called Lukoil, which has just held a renegade called Amik. I would like to state the following and address these words to the leadership of the Ukrainian Security Service, which has already violated criminal conduct, to the Attorney General's Office and to the DFS. This third - year company shows a negative balance that they are in harm’s way. Imagine, when they sell oil, they're at a loss. This is tax evasion, and I'm asking the law enforcement authorities to intervene, and please consider mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u120	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u121	by the MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u122	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the National Deputy Bondar, who has been given the floor by the People's Deputy Denisov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have been approached by the District State Administration of the Lviv Region. The winter is coming to an end, the soybeans begin, and the problem that has arisen needs to be solved. Decision No. 1051 of 28.12.2016 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine decided to place on the State's food service the registration of agricultural technology and the control of seed quality, biological and genetic safety through the elimination of Sustainable Inspection. This was to ensure the uninterrupted registration of agricultural techniques, the certification of seeds and the planting material of agricultural plants designed to be implemented and implemented. in Ukraine and international trade with the issue of a certificate. At present, the decommissioning mechanism is not regulated. In the Brodwi district, the Lviv district’s State Administration is located in the area, where owners of agricultural technology are asked to register it, to obtain the right to manage the mentioned technology, and to agroform the area to determine the seed’s crop quality. However, the absence of qualified professionals in the above - mentioned structure in the Brodiv region makes it impossible to implement the mandated Maintenance Service. Please contact the relevant ministry to respond to the problem and solve it. Mrs. Oksana, I'm also going to ask you to address me as a reference to the appropriate structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u124	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Ostrikov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u125	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-Help faction. Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues. Today, we hear a lot of information about the error that was made in voting for the fiscal package for the tax police, when, as a result of the error in the tax police section, the tax police was excluded from the tax code, and this should have taken effect at the same time as the creation of the new financial police body, but as a result of a technical error, this state law enforcement body was, unfortunately, out of the law, and it was left unannounced, and the state was not determined to create a new, high-quality financial investigation body and transfer it with appropriate powers. So when we have this legal coalition, to speed up this situation, we certainly need to work together now and quickly in Parliament to consider the law on the creation of a new single body that will investigate all criminal conduct, where the public interests of the state and local self - government are the subject. Yesterday, we'll learn from the media that there's a working group of rapists and ministers working in the government that's looking into this bill. Please tell me, what can the forces change and reform? Do you believe that they will give up part of their powers in favor of the new single body of analysis and their punitive instruments? I don't believe it, for example. So in order for us to carry out this reform in a good way, I think it's necessary to remind Parliament that, for a year now, as a registered 4228 bill, my authorship on the elimination of the tax police and the creation of the Financial Police. And I want to remind you of the basics of the concept of this bill, which I think should be taken by the government, its working groups, on the basis of it. First of all, the Financial Police is supposed to be a separate independent single body that's going to take economic responsibility from the B.B.I., the National Police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the D.B.I. As provided by the IMF memorandum, the investigation will be carried out by a single body. In doing so, his efforts should focus on the operational and investigation work carried out by detectives in compliance with the conditions of non-interference in the activities of economic operators prior to the detection of the crime. And verification will only take place in cases provided for in the Criminal Procedure Code. There shouldn't be a force unit there. There should be quotas so that all old forces that have worked in the law enforcement system for years and do not show any effective results in combating economic crime can not come to the competition and become employees of the new Financial Police. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister right now, I'm asking the Minister of Finance to secure it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u126	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u127	ensure that the working group of national deputies from the professional committees, the public, and, most importantly, not only prosecutors and militias, but also lawyers involved in farm crimes, who know for themselves what violations are committed by the tax police and how to eliminate them in the new body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u128	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Rosenblatt.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u129	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people. I want to go back to Tuesday, when another state crime took place in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the Supreme Council has not been able to adopt the Law on the Legalization of amber for two years and has failed this bill in its second reading. For two years we awaited the adoption of this law. For two years now, people who are harvesting this amber but who want to do it legally because they have to feed their families, families, they have been waiting for it. Sadly, we did not live up to their expectations. Unfortunately, we did not live up to the expectations of the Ukrainian people in general, who are already looking at this insolence, for this state crime that happens every day when criminal structures under the roof of law enforcement authorities illegally acquire amber. You know, we've recently created territorial communities united. The leaders of these united communities called us and asked us: When you adopt the law, when we are able to, in fact, care for people’s health, build roads, hospitals, education, including funds, should go to the local budgets, to the state budget. We have to create jobs. We must do everything we can to make Ukraine develop. Today, when we are once again surprised that the IMF has put aside the issue of the allocation of another tranche, I want to say in answer, and they are really wondering why Ukraine, with all its resources, land resources, natural resources, cannot use them for the development of its economy. Why should we keep on walking around the world looking for money and supplies? How long is this going to take? We have recently discussed issues on the committee that have been put into the agenda, not the agenda, but the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Law on the Distinguishing Moratorium on the Export of Forests. What's going on in the country? People believed in investment, people made investments, people invested money to create an enterprise, woodworking, furniture business. Today we say no, we're looking. Because, you know, the Supreme Council is making decisions today and they might call it off. I don't think they can be in a country that wants European freedom that wants European values. Sorry, we are acting very unfairly with regard to all those who believe in Ukraine. So I want to refer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine as a person who may be the last hope to pass a bill, as required by all parties and blocs that did not vote in favour of the bill, and to find a way out of that position. Because the month of February is about to end, and when it snows, people will go looking for jobs again. If we can't give them the opportunity in a legal way.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u130	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u131	So we need to find a way for them to be created by the government. So I urge you today to find a way out and stop this nonsense, what's happening in Polissa and in the woods in the fields. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u132	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Leschchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u133	Good afternoon, Ukraine! I share the colleague's concern that there is no investment climate in Ukraine, that there are no foreign investors for privatization, and that there is no privatization because state enterprises are dairy cows from the state budget. The clans are getting rich, the Ukrainian citizens are poor, and at this time, there is a cynical process of consolidating the power structures in the hands of the President. Compare what was a year ago and what is now: between the NAMU and the Special Prosecutor's Office of the split, NAZK is not working at all, in fact, the State Bureau of Investigation has removed, the favoritist is a person close to the President's Administration, and in the Henprocurator's Office there were expectations that we were changing Shakin to Lucenka and something was changing, and nothing changed about the BAF under the direction of the real Demina, the first deputy, who is close to the President's environment, everything works in the same vertical. We're going to the President's election for the next term, and obviously we all have to put it together in one fist to guarantee the outcome. But in addition to the consolidation of the muscle, there's consolidation in the mass media. You can see that on one channel they're assigning the Bank's viewers, on the other channel they're holding the owners on the hook to properly explain the work, on the third channel they're taking the licenses, they're creating problems not to tell you who the main beneficiary of corruption is in Ukraine. And the third process of consolidation is the consolidation of corruption money, when all state-owned enterprises are appointed "lookers" by intermediary companies, who are going to supply or buy products and then resell with margins, and the margin sits on offshores to put that money back into politics. And today's performance is dedicated to a particular scheme that Ukraine is not yet familiar with, but which I already know. Last week, the Crucifixion launched a tender to buy a huge amount of fuel for 3 billion dollars, it's almost half of the entire year's needs, and all 3 billion dollars, three lotts, won one, little one, company. There was a lot of stuff going on, and socar was going on, and everybody knows the fillings, and okko was going on, and the wog was going on, and these companies were all listening, and three billion dollars of the tender is going to win this kind of thing, little one, Trade Commodity, no one's ever heard of it, nobody knows it. I'll tell you, this company belongs to Mr. Adamowski, who, in turn, is a partner, all the known, "watchers" of the courts, the prosecution, Mr. Granowski's BSC. And the odds are that there's an open, corrupt conflict of interest. The second story is that this company, Trade Commodity, supplied the state reserve of Ukraine last year with fuel-oil materials and the state reserve refused to accept them because they were of low quality because they were just falling apart and I have expertise in my hands that confirms it. These facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u134	Please for 10 seconds, because everyone wants to speak, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u135	These facts are known to everyone who needs to, everyone knows in the leadership of the state, everyone knows about these fuel-oil materials that were of poor quality, which the reserve refused to accept and even went to court to condemn 30 million dollars in Trade Commodities. Instead of making up for the money, Trade Commodity has now received a 3 billion dollar tender for the Crucifixion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u136	That's all. Thank you. I invite you to speak to the national deputy of Halasyuk, who has been given the floor by the national deputy of Rybalko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u137	Dear Ukrainians, welcome! In order to raise citizens' incomes, to raise social standards, wages and pensions, it is necessary for Ukraine to develop its own economy, its own industry. Industry is the heart of any modern country's economy. What's going on with us? The government is now taking another triple blow on the Ukrainian industry to further drag the country into a debt pit and instead of taxing it to live, taking IMF loans, and selling land for these loans, selling retirement age, and pushing talented Ukrainians from our home country. What's going on? The National Energy Regulatory Commission has raised the cost of connecting to electricity six times, i.e. the introduction of a completely artificial, unwarranted, corrupt, plundering tax on the entire Ukrainian industry, to small and medium - size enterprises, and virtually destroyed the decision to create new alternative energy objects. Is that what you do in any country that respects yourself? No, it's a completely anti-government decision for the benefit of the monopolies and against the Ukrainian industry. As deputy leader of the Radical Party, the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, I made appropriate calls to the NCRE, the company that made the assessment on the basis of which these heist tariffs were created. We're going to try to review them and undo this decision of NCRE. The other one. They raised the cost of gas for industry by 22 percent, what is it? Tell us how you can compare the artificial price of Ukrainian gas to the price of imported gas. So if we're going to use that logic, let's just take the wages and compare them to Europeans, or we're going to do the cost of credit instead of 25 percent, 2 percent in one day. We realize that's impossible, so why is that possible in gas pricing? How can you just kill the Ukrainian industry? Or the next thing you know, the next thing you know, the next thing you know, "The Railroads" is to raise freight fares by 25 percent. Listen, this is a genocide of the Ukrainian industry, which has calculated the impact of this absolutely short decision, on inflation, on the exchange rate, on citizens' incomes, on the country's GDP, on the tax revenues that will come. This influence is negative, which is what international and Ukrainian experts are calling for today. So tell me, will the authorities listen to these positions, or will they continue to destroy the Ukrainian industry? The Radical Party faction calls on all the Ukrainian MPs, we take this issue under strict parliamentary control and we will choose the country's tariff policy for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens and for the benefit of the Ukrainian industry to live on our own resources, not foreign taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u138	I invite national deputy Yuri Derevyanka to give him the floor to the national deputy of Richkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u139	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Dear Ukrainians! Dear Automobiles! Respectable car owners on a foreign registration! We can pretend that we don't have this problem in the country, that there are no foreign registration problems in Ukraine, but we need to be aware that between 1.5 million and 2 million of these cars are in Ukraine. And the owners of such cars today are forced to do a variety of things in the right field. And they're using these cars not because they have such a good, good life, but because they're leftovers of our middle class, which today is capable of having two or three thousand euros or dollars and buying exactly that kind of car. And this is the only way for many of these people today to feed their families, to be economically active, and to work. Our motorists, who use these vehicles, have already carried out a number of warning actions to draw the attention of the government and authorities to the problem. Instead, what is the reaction to power now? What does the authorities do? The government has created special fiscal services, police and customs forces, which remove such cars throughout Ukraine, stop them, sometimes using the legal ignorance of citizens, require bribes to release such citizens, and these repressions take place all over Ukraine. In order to solve this problem, we and many of the people's deputies -- Volodymyr Parasuk -- and more than a hundred of the people's 100 national deputies present today in the Ukrainian Parliament -- proposed Bill 5567. And I am very grateful to all the national MPs who have taken part in this initiative to solve this problem. But today this process is being blocked, today by the government, and it's up to the government to have the position that the relevant SAE committee is waiting for, the government's point of view on solving this problem, which is essentially very simple: car owners with foreign registration are willing to pay between 150 and 200, 250 and more euros annually depending on the car, to fill the State budget, that's about 9 billion dollars a year. It's not enough that ATO participants will have a one-time exemption from such payments, little that all cars will be able to go through appropriate customs procedures within two months to legalize their situation in Ukraine, and we'll have a clear register of all the owners of Ukrainian citizens' cars who will be responsible for these cars. That's why we're demanding today to stop these repressions, we're asking the government today to give a clear signal to Mrs. Jujanina's profile committee about supporting Bill 5567 and allowing our Ukrainian citizens to use these cars and feel worthy and stop bullying them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u140	Thank you. I invite you to take the floor of the People's Deputy of Semimenho, who has been given the floor by National Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u141	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, Madam Chairman! The fourth year is war. The terrible, undeclared, national liberation war of Ukraine for its independence. However, the Ukrainian Parliament -- hopefully so far -- has not carried out its historic mission: has not recognized war as a war, has not called the territory occupied, without putting the same legal responsibility for all crimes against the Russian Federation. Moreover, the cynicism of power continues to grow and debilitate. Today, when the government meets in this rostrum, notice that government officials don't even use the term "occupied territories," they use the term "uncontrollable territories". From this rostrum, Mr. Zubko was probably indignant today, perhaps with three thousand shells that had flown over the last weeks to our military in the Audiowka region, but counting how much metal had gone down, why did Mr. Zubko treacherously remain silent, how many thousands of tons during this time of Ukraine, trading in occupied territories, supplying metal, rolling in those territories? Next. Unfortunately, Parliament did not make it through this week, in the first reading, to consider the Law on Interimly Occupied Territories, although by creating a working group on a profile committee, starting a discussion on this subject, this is the debate in this Parliament. People often ask us: Why are opposers of this law very often concerned about those people in occupied territories, but they remain silent about those people who have lived on the collision line for years and who suffer from Russian aggression every day? Why are such people not concerned about the families of the dead, the families of the mutilated people, our fighters, the soldiers during the years of this terrible war? Why do these people not care so much about those who, as a result of their intense hostility against all Ukrainians, have left that territory and, even after victory, are unlikely to be able and willing to return? Because only after the unity of all these people can there be a real victory and restoration of sovereignty in Ukraine. So, colleagues, I urge you in the next plenary week to consider the Ukrainian Law on Interimly Occupied Territories, which can legally place responsibility on the Russian Federation, which will finally stop the blood trade with occupied territories, the law that will determine war by war, particularly the time of the beginning of the occupation, the time of the beginning of the war, which has not yet been done for the fourth year of the war. Therefore, colleagues, if this Parliament is to continue to have a prospect and be truly pro-Ukrainian, there must be a pro-Ukrainian majority in this Parliament, despite all our political differences, in order to recognize things by their names and finally admit war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u142	Thank you. And the final speech is the national deputy of Krivoshea, who was given the word by the national deputy of Jedak. Please. Please, the People's Deputies of Krivoshia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u143	Thank you. Gennady Krivoshia, faction of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u144	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u145	Thank you. Gennady Krivoshia, faction of the People's Front. Today I would like to pay attention, in principle, to a small problem. I apologize to my colleague for taking your attention. But anyway. During this week, we voted on rather serious initiatives and passed laws regarding the unification of the territorial communities. In some areas, however, this process actually slows down and does not go any further. This is true of the Kyiv region, particularly my hometown of Boguslav in the region, where two territorial communities are in the long run. For inexplicable reasons, in fact, today’s and district administrations, district deputies, who have little to do in providing appropriate support for the unification of these communities, are not doing any work. So I would like to focus on this and ask you to pay attention not only to the head of the district administration, but also to the professional minister of the Cabinet of Ministers and to Mr. Zubko's professional minister. Dear colleagues, at the same time, I would like to pay attention to the following. I have talked a lot about the fact that we today have a very large number of local governments with proper authority and the right to control, to regulate tariffs for heat. Thus, in our native district of Boguslav, Boguslav, thanks to the active position of the public, the individual district deputies, the position of the district administration, the tariff has recently been changed – and it has been reduced in fact, there, by 30 percent, to what extent the tariff for the population in the Boguslav region has been reduced. However, the District Council did not do its best to end and did so, in principle, that state enterprises, institutions, organizations -- they stay, stay and overpay the corresponding funds from the budget, I remind you, to the corresponding Boguslav thermal supply actually the same 40 percent. Then the question is: we're making a picture for the population when we're focusing on this in the Supreme Council, we're saying that the district council and the district deputies are so good, they're so active, and for the state institutions where they're all subordinated, and for the local self-government authorities where they're all subordinated to the heads of the district councils, we're not changing these tariffs. That is to say, there is a recalculation of funds for conventional thermal organizations, such as those related to the Boguslav region of 40. More than 40 percent. Then the question is, why do you want to take a picture and steal a budget? Make sure that our children, the school, do not overpay for the heat, and this cost goes to education. Let's buy furniture, let's develop educational institutions, build new educational institutions, and be bold enough. We will not be presumptuous enough to treat our inhabitants by showing and taking pictures in places. So I'd like to go back to Boguslawsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u146	Please finish. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u147	To the Boguslav District Council, focus on this and make the right tariffs for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-10-m0.u148	Thank you. We have one more announcement. It's consistent with the law. in article 60, marked 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of an interfractional parliamentary association "Kyivščina". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Moskalenko Jaroslav Mikolaiovich, was elected head of this association. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council will take place on February 21st at 10 a.m. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
