ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Colleagues, please take your seats, we'll have the registration now. Can we make a registration, colleagues? Everybody in place? Then please ask the national deputies to register. [[10:05:01]] There are 345 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I would like to welcome the election of the new President of the European Parliament, Antonio Tajani. It represents the largest group of the European Parliament, the European People's Party, which has always been a trusted partner and friend of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine looks forward to continuing its close and fruitful cooperation with the European Parliament and Ukraine’s support in the fight against Russian aggression and on the path of European integration. I also want to thank all of us for our fruitful cooperation with the previous Head of the European Parliament, Martin Schultz. Thank you for the support we felt during the Dignity Revolution. Assistance in the integration of Ukraine, assistance in the fight against Russian and imperial aggression. Martin Schultz, as Head of the European Parliament, made great efforts to create an antiputinian coalition in Europe. We thank them. [[Applause]] Colleagues, we spend 30 minutes today, according to the Rules, speaking from national deputies. So I would like to point out that not from the MP factions, but from the MPs, that is, in the free record, who will be able to say the word of the truth. So I'm asking the National Deputies to prepare for the recording of the speeches by the deputies. Ready? And please record, please, colleagues. Thank you. Let's move on to the performances. Hviča Nodarovich gives the floor to Maxim Burbak, director of the People's Front faction. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I'm going to be representing the People's Front faction today, electoral district number 204, Majority district, in the Chernjevic region. With regard to yesterday’s disgraceful situation, there was a lack of support for a very important law that would allow territorial communities to unite in different areas. I would like to remind you that yesterday, on another occasion, a merger has already been established in the broad opposition of Fatherland and the Opposal, which have not voted for this necessary reform. Secondly, I want to remind the Fatherland representatives, as they did last year, by inviting many village heads to this balcony, they reported to them and said they swore they would support decentralization reform, instead of doing nothing. Yesterday, from my native 204 district, I got a call from the village head of the Kolinkovites, and he said, "Dear Maxime Yuriovich, you promised us that the bill that was signed by all the factions' heads would be supported by almost everyone in terms of unification within different regions. And we will finally be able to join two more villages from the Novoselick region and form a united territorial community, and this will be a continuation of the decentralization reform initiated by the Yatsenuk government. What happened, Maksim Yuriovich, yesterday?" And there was a disgraceful example of how the interests of the Fatherland and the Environment communities were betrayed, who were shouting that they were behind what the main thesis of yesterday was that they had won elections in the united communities. That's the bottom line. So the next time I look at all the rural heads, I'm going to go through my entire district in the next few weeks, and I'm going to talk about real support for this kind of decentralization reform that's needed. Secondly, I would like to address the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health on the situation that has arisen with the appointment of hospital districts in the areas. The Montenegrin government sent a letter to create three hospital districts in the Chernobyl region. I spoke to Mr. Zubko, Vice Prime Minister of the Region, yesterday, so that it is very necessary to include in this working group of representatives of major MPs who also know the situation as it is in places. Well, there can't be two hospital districts in Chernobyl, there's got to be three, and in my family's, 204 district with the hotline, where the better infrastructure is where it is. A maternity home is being built, where the central regional hospital is modernizing, where we make windows and doors, everything new to make them. Again, Kiev officials do not know how to make sure that all the wishes of the community are taken into account. That's why we're demanding that the working group on the establishment of hospital districts be involved with major MPs, and I'm sure that all major MPs from different factions support my initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u3	Thank you. Natalia Vasilovna Novak, please. Passing Chumaku the word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u4	Victor Chumak, 214 district, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! It took almost 2.5 years for the elected President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, two years as the elected new Parliamentary Assembly. During election campaigns, both of them made many promises, slogans, unfortunately not all of them were fulfilled. So yesterday, 22 people's deputies signed an open letter to the President of Ukraine regarding the implementation of the presidential and democratic factions' pre-election promises. Instead of telling you, I'll read it to you: "Dear Peter Alexiovich! More than 2.5 years ago, in your pre-election programme "Living – New" as a candidate for the presidency of Ukraine, you stated that you would make every effort, as part of your constitutional mandate, that the parliamentary elections in Ukraine would take place essentially on a proportional basis behind open lists. In addition, an agreement was made in 2014 on the creation of a still valid coalition of MP factions "European Ukraine", one of the participants of which is the "Block of Petra Prashenka" faction, also includes a clause on the abolition of parliamentary immunity, the introduction of a proportional electoral system to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where voters will be able to vote for specific candidates in multi-mandatory constituencies (a proportional system with open lists), the adoption of legislation that regulates the procedure for bringing the President of Ukraine into charge in the order of imperialism. In two years, unfortunately, the coalition of MPs failed to demonstrate political will and failed to submit relevant bills for consideration by the Supreme Council. In view of the above, with a view to completing political reform, fulfilling the promises and implementation of the culture and practice of political responsibility in Ukraine, I ask you, Sir Peter Alexiyovich, to exercise your right as President of Ukraine and to determine as urgent for consideration at the sixth session of the Supreme Council on the eighth call such bills as fully implement your data and your political power before the election promises. First. Draft Law on the Election of People’s Deputies (number 1068-2). Draft Law on the Special Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council on the Investigation of the removal of the President from office in the order of impeachment (number 2278). Third. Draft Law on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine on the Inviolability of People’s Deputies and Judges (No. 1766). Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Inviolability of People’s Deputies (No. 5487). Fifth. Draft Act amending certain legislation on prevention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u5	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u6	corruption and conflict of interest in the activities of those who hold political office (2343a) and the draft Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum (number 2145a)." The letter is open. Any national MPs who support this position may also sign up. It will be sent to the media so that representatives of non-parliamentary political parties and public political movements can sign. Moreover, I propose every plenary Tuesday, starting with the sixth session for all non-parliamentary and parliamentary political parties, the public movements that support this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u7	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u8	Every Tuesday, take appropriate action before the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Administration of the President of Ukraine to remind parliamentarians and the President of their promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, Nechayev's next and the Shemtz are giving their two speeches to the national deputy, Dobrenkov. So please take these two deputies off the list and include six minutes for the performance of Dudenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Here the representative of the People's Front spoke of the fact that the faction of the Opposition Block did not support the decentralization bill. Yes, indeed, we do not support this decentralization. And we're talking about this directly and openly to Ukrainian citizens. Because, first of all, the bill that was put to the vote yesterday in the plenary room had nothing to do with the interests of the territorial communities. The essence of the bill, which you thought was called by a representative of the local authorities, was to determine the boundaries of cities and districts, to transfer authority from district councils, city councils, district councils to the appropriate authorities. Where is decentralization? Of course, the opposition block faction of these disgraceful bills has not supported or supported, that's the first. The second is about the concept of decentralization itself. You're talking about decentralization offering to increase the financial autonomy of the regions, and where is that? How does this happen? In fact, 25 percent of the taxes on the income of individuals who provide 50 percent of the revenues on local budgets are transferred, transferred to the state budget -- that's your decentralization. You've canceled the retail excise on tobacco, alcohol products yourself, because it's ineffective, it's not administered by local tax inspections -- here's your decentralization. So, of course, the Opposition Block faction won't support these bills, because it's not decentralisation, but it's centralization of power by depriving the financial resources of the territorial communities and spending them in the fields of education, medicine, vocational and technical education. In general, my statement relates to the current economic situation in the country. It has to be said that the country’s economic situation is very catastrophic. Unfortunately, members of the coalition, the current authorities, are calming the population, saying there's going to be financial macroeconomic stability. But, unfortunately, statistics are a thing of stubbornness, it's very hard to argue with, and unfortunately, it speaks of the opposite. Declared the first and second coalitions, which included all factions other than the Opposition Block, in no way provided structural reforms in both the tax and economic spheres. The fight against corruption has led to even greater corruption in the country. If, in 2011-2012, Ukraine went to the pre-crisis level of 2008 at the level of GDP, since 2014, when power was changed, we have re-started our vector to the financial and economic divide. The inflation rate is 40-50 percent, the devaluation of the bracelet is more than 300 percent, one of the world's largest. The average wage is about $190, when it was $350 in 2013. The average pension from $200 in 2013 dropped to $60. The high inflation rates, the decline in population income, the rise in housing and utility tariffs -- all of this leads to the poverty of the population, the decline in their purchasing power. Where are the improvements? Where are the structural reforms that really improve the life of a Ukrainian citizen? In addition, the economic policy of the State is unfortunately aimed, not at supporting the national producer, but at the clear and inescapable fulfilment of the requirements of the International Monetary Fund. In particular, media outlets are now building up data on the round-the-clock negotiations with representatives of the International Monetary Fund, which propose to increase the retirement age, remove the moratorium on land sales, continue cuts in the budget area, cancel a single tax for workers in small and medium-sized businesses. Where are the reforms? Are these reforms contributing to economic growth, strengthening and improving the standard of living of the population? It's a rhetorical question. It has to be said that the country is in a very difficult financial position, because the deficit in the State budget of Ukraine is 77 billion dollars, reflects only the excess part of the iceberg, because the expenditure in question does not include the cost of the Investment Guarantee Fund of individuals, the expenditure recorded does not include the NAC Naftogaz Ukraine grants, subsidies from the State budget for the recapitalisation of Ukraine's banks. So the deficit in the financial balance of payments is even higher, it's about 200 billion dollars. It should be noted that a recent state policy aimed at nationalizing the largest private bank has in fact led not to nationalization but to the nationalization of the credits of the bank. The International Monetary Fund will have to pay over $5 billion back to pay off loans to Ukraine for $1 billion in tax payers. The lack of structural reforms has led to a decline in the manufacturing industry, from 20 percent to 12 percent. Economic policy results in falling exports, losing external markets, ineffective operation of the Association Agreement because of quotas already selected in January of the current year. We are losing external markets, but exports are not taking place in EU countries. External debt is 95 percent of GDP. This policy is unacceptable. We have to go to the policy of refusal.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u11	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u12	We need to give up our cooperation with the International Monetary Fund because it is deepening, making the country's economic situation worse. The policy of raising housing and utilities tariffs must be abandoned because low population levels prevent it from surviving, in fact 12 million pensioners placed on the brink of biological existence. So we have to start by shutting down the interaction with the IMF and starting, in fact, structural reforms in the economic and tax sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u13	I was walking Vassil Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u14	Good day to you all! Vassili Gulyaev, 140 constituency, Odessa District, Rebirth Party. I would like to raise today such an evil subject as the reform of the IMF. You know, reform is, of course, necessary. But it is admitted that it has not brought all the results that it would like them to bring. I would like to give a concrete example of the city of Chernomorsk, the former Ilyichevsk. It was once a peaceful, quiet, quiet town. But it all started where? That the horrendous had been shut down and the police department did. This is a city of regional jurisdiction in which to date there remain 20 investigators from 2-3 investigators, out of 15 stations from 3 stations. Tentage thefts have tripled since 2015, which is now commonplace in a small town where apartment theft takes place every day. I'm not talking about robbery attacks, which were such a simple exception, that if there was once a robbery attack in the city, all the interception plans and all that sort of thing were included. Today, this has become a common practice in a small town that is a resort town. We must understand that in this city, the population increases by at least three times during the summer season. So something has to be changed, so we have to do something. And as a national MP, and the people of this city, this is my district. There is a Black Sea port in my district, which also needs protection and protection. Return the government, return the people to the city office. During the year, four heads of our workshop, the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, were replaced. What will be the direction? What's it gonna be like? Yeah, so far we've changed the district leadership, and we've started doing something. At least they're sending some outfits, and something's going on in the city. To date, I am addressing myself to return to Black Seas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u15	Thank you. Dekhtyarchuk Alexander Volodymyrovich gives the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, you know, at the end of December, the official report of the Mission of the BDIPPL of the OSCE came out regarding their assessment of the vote in the Russian Federation of Elections to the State of the Russian Federation. And let me draw your attention to the inadmissibility of the fact that there is no word in this report that the elections in the occupied Crimea were followed by a breach of standards. Imagine that this Final Report of the Monitoring Mission states that the four deputies of the State Duma of the Russian Federation were simply elected to the constituencies formed in the Crimean Peninsula. It admits that the mission itself was not present and was not able to observe elections in Crimea due to the lack of consensus between the OSCE member states on the status of Crimea and the constituencies established in its territory. And there's obviously no word on the impact of illegal voting in Crimea on the outcome of the election to the State of the Russian Federation. There is no mention of voting in the elections to the State Department, which was done by means of falsified electoral lists, the baseless inclusion of Ukrainian citizens in the electoral lists, the forced passporting of Ukrainian citizens. And this is because the Russian Federation is making every effort to discredit and degrade international institutions and is trying to make progress by imposing its own vision of the standards of democracy. Obviously, Ukraine as a member of the OSCE cannot stand outside such processes. Moreover, according to the Minsk Treaties, it is the OSCE’s BDIPL that monitors the elections on Donbassa if they take place if demilitarization takes place. And so I would like to make the following suggestion that we should go to the EU High Council's profile committees on issues of Euro-integration and foreign affairs and request that we prepare a statement from the Supreme Council of Ukraine to all the OSCE member countries asking them to pay attention to this report, and to this day the methodology used by the OSCE's BDIP is required to improve this methodology, requiring that this report be acknowledged in a way that does not correspond to reality, because there is no European country that recognizes the annexation of Crimea. And we can see that these reports are giving us a creeping attempt to acknowledge the annexation of Crimea. And that's why I'm asking the committees to prepare this statement, and we've accepted it tomorrow. And my second message has a different character. I would like to say, my fellow Members, that yesterday, during a speech by one of the leaders of the parliamentary factions, I allowed myself to take advantage of the possibility of being present at the presidency of the Supreme Council and protesting that this leader of the faction of people with limited capabilities in ambiguous claims.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u17	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u18	with the microphone on. Obviously, emotions can't dominate the Ukrainian Parliament, and I want to admit it, especially in the Presidium. But also to urge the leader of this parliamentary faction, who loves Ukrainian women, Ukrainian cows, animals, to be treated with special respect by all of us politicians with limited opportunities. Parliament has done very little for them in fact. And I urge all of us to take courage when we're wrong, when we're wrong, to admit it. I admit my mistake, I call for this to be done by the distinguished leader of the parliamentary faction. And let's show a high political culture in the new year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u19	Please, Mrs. Irina mentioned the leader of the Radical Party in her speech. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u20	[[From the Hall]] You asked me to express my position.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u21	Of course. I meant Oleg Lazka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u22	Please, it's Oleg Lazko's line.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u23	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm sorry my respectable colleague Irina Heratschenko likens our most charming women to cows. We do. Indeed, we treat cows with great respect, because a cow is a farm in a village. But it is not necessary to humiliate women or cows with such comparisons that Ukrainian women and Ukrainian cows are equal. Now, let's talk about what's going on in the hall. Dear Ukrainians, it's a world-viewed discussion, it's not personal. The Radical Party team wants our country to be rich and powerful. The Radical Party team wants Ukrainians to have jobs and wages, and our opponents want our country to be a raw colony and a "banana republic" from which they will export forests, land and raise their retirement age. That's what we're talking about! And those people who have led the country to the pen that our richest country wants to turn into a banana republic, our opponents, with whom we will fight as much as God will give strength. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the intention of Irina Heratschenko's speech was to have a political culture and no image in the hall. I think it's the right thing to do. I urge you to continue to avoid the image, in political and secular discussions we should use arguments rather than personal images. And I'm calling on all the national MPs to stand up to a high level of political culture. This is the face of both Ukraine and our international colleagues, and most importantly, in front of Ukrainians and in front of Ukrainian society. Thank you. Lensky Alexiyyovich conveys the word Halasyuk for the performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u25	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Each dollar leap makes 90 percent poorer. Impairment of the bracelet is essentially a tax on the least-secured people in the country. Why is the bracelet so fragile? Because it is based, not on a solid foundation of its own industry, its own production, its own exports, and its investments, but on the quick basis of IMF loans. We have a marginally negative trade balance, import goes beyond exports for ten years, so we buy much more abroad than we sell goods into the world. Such a situation cannot guarantee the stability of citizens’ bracelets and well - being. In better years, trade deficits amount to $2.3 billion, less than $14.15 billion. Tell me, can you fill this bottomless barrel with an IMF loan shark? There's no way. The only way to remedy this situation is by raising your own production. Or you can raise your own production when the main task of the monetary policy of the Nutzbank under the direction of the Gontarev is to put what's called inflation targeting, i.e. essentially curbing inflation, freezing the economy. I'll explain it to you in plain language. If a person is sick, has a high fever, and sweats, instead of treating him, they say we will not let you drink, or we may even put you in the refrigerator. This is inflationary targeting. This is a complete idiocy that can only kill the Ukrainian economy, and there is no way to gain international subjectivity or increase the welfare of citizens. The economy is declining, and Ukraine’s external government debt and the percentage of its services are increasing. In this year's budget it's over 110 billion dollars, it's totally unacceptable. Nazbank, led by Gontareva, leads the country to an imminent default when the non-professional minister of finance is subdued. Unless we change this shameful monetary policy of the National Bank and the economic policy of the government, as the Radical Party calls for. Today they have turned the country into a financial desert, at the cost of Ukraine’s loans to the eighth since the end of the world ranking table, the eighth since the end! Along with Honduras, between Uganda and Honduras, this is unacceptable. Therefore, the Radical Party faction requires the resignation of the head of the National Bank of Honduras, the change in the monetary policy of the National Bank and the direction of Nazbank's activities to promote economic growth, to ensure price and exchange stability of the currency, to ensure a reasonable level of interest and to promote full employment of the population, as is the case in the United States. I call for support for the changes to the Constitution of Ukraine that we have initiated with you in this room. For Ukraine's sake.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u26	You're done, aren't you? Dear colleagues! The national MP, Barwinenko, gives the floor to his fellow MP, Gulyavov. BRAZIL B.Y. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u27	Vassili Gulyaev, Rebirth Party. I'd like to talk about this one interesting thing today. Here, we MPs discussed our wages yesterday, talked to all of Ukraine, it was visible, and it didn't end. What's going on at the IPU in the Ukrainian port administration? I spoke here yesterday with Minister Omellan, at the end of 2016, Mr. Minister is signing a document that needs to be reduced by 30 per cent of the employees of the AIPU. If Mr. Minister doesn't know who works at the ports, who works at the AIPA, it works in the human dynasties, people work for decades and today take them and reduce them because the wage fund has to be reduced. What's pay? No one can answer such a simple question today, and why the management of the AIPA wrote to itself at the end of the year, a guide for 320,000 wages. So the people's deputies are sitting here talking, and so far there's no one to ask, 320,000 wages -- once, plus a bonus, plus that. No one knows. And the workers that have to be removed -- and for a second, that's today in the city of Blackmores -- that's about 30 percent down -- that's 300 people, that's 300-400 families out of work. This means that workers have to be removed, and the wage is not as high as 3-5,000 bracelets. But that means the management is getting 320,000 to date. I want my statement here to sound like a parliamentary request to Mr. Minister Omellan to give a clear answer, why did this happen, and who got that money, and are they going to put that money back in the budget? Because here in the hall yesterday, the right words were saying that let's not just talk to the MP in a transparent way, as he gets. Because it's easy for the MPs to say, let's get all the ministers, let's get all the departments, let's go directly to the Ukrainian Port Authority, let them show us what salaries they get. What people get on the ground, we know they're still missing, and I'm asking you to consider my statement a parliamentary request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u28	Thank you, Your Honor. The Lithuanian People's Deputy of the People's Will Group gives the floor to his colleague Melniczuk. Please, Mr. Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u29	Good afternoon, reverend Ukrainian people! Good day to the people's deputies, chairman! I would like to raise the issue of health care in Ukraine, namely, that there is not yet an appointed minister of health. The man who serves as minister, yes, the man is a fine, fine volunteer. But this is not a specialist who has experience in the work, the experience of the manager, and the result on the face: the branch, well, the entire ministry and the actual intelligence that monitors the health of the nation, and we are actually left with the health of the nation, because we have led the Ukrainian people into the condition of the dying beggar. And health care itself has become a major forpost. Since 2015, there has been no purchase program, and only at the end of last year, someone has gone through some of their conundrums to steal government funds, moved to Ukraine -- I've moved, I mean, this is information for the power structures and for the investigation -- a drug that's less than six months left. In other words, drugs that have already been defrauded are passed on as humanitarian aid within six months. They were put into the purchase program and sent to Ukraine. So by the end of the third month, we have to use these drugs. This is the 2015 purchase program. So these government funds that were used to buy drugs that came to us for humanitarian aid. So I'm asking the power organs to sort this out and consider this a parliamentary request. Part two of mine. My report that I want to raise is what happened in the first weeks of this year, which is this company called Ukkrimtransamak. In just 13 days, it's a simple Russian company. Russian companies for which ammonia was to be transported put up $11.5 million for Ukraine. Mr. Polozov, who has a Russian passport, sabotages the business and harms Ukraine. If you had to do something, please cut the contracts, and do it right. From! And so this guy was supposedly removed from his job in the company, and he's causing damage, and then he's lying on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u30	Thank you, Mr. Melniczuk. Dear colleagues, during the performances, I remember! - during the national MPs' performances, there was a negative lineup, a negative message to the "Fatherland" faction. And Sobole Sergey insists on a minute of reaction from the faction. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, the next time they try to tell us what a wonderful decentralization is taking place in Ukraine. A colleague without whom the sun does not rise or set in Chernivsky tried to accuse the faction of the Fatherland of not supporting decentralization. We're backing it up. But decentralization, from the point of view of the Fatherland faction, is a clear tax consolidation at the city level, the village, the village. This is what is meant by preserving each of the locations directly in Ukraine. It's about the bill. Until the issue of how financing takes place in shared areas of land administration is settled, the issues of direct education subsidies, the issues directly linked to the joint financing of objects, our faction will not vote in favour of the bills. So we insist that these issues be addressed first and foremost during decentralization. And that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u32	Thank you, Your Honor. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u33	And only this will enable the real development of the village and those united communities that volunteered to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u34	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, if we're going to be a replica, we're not going to be able to go into the agenda. So the names weren't mentioned. What am I offering? We're going to have a bill discussion right now, so let's go over the bill without mentioning the last name or mentioning the faction. I call on everyone. All to a high political culture. Dear colleagues, the downside is that you can't sign up for a performance here, so I'm giving you three minutes to speak to my colleague, Mrs. Oksani Siroid. And on that we finish the speeches, and then we move on to the discussion of the agenda. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u35	I'm going to the secretariat to put on a video. Please make a video. I want you to look at these photos again, and I want us to remember this, because at the time that the President, the President of Ukraine, is stressing in all of his speeches that Russia will be called to account for the crimes it is committing in Ukraine, while the Ukrainian Parliament is actually addressing everyone every plenary week, all of our international partners demanding to strengthen sanctions against Russia, demanding that Russia be recognized as an aggressor state; while every Ukrainian who has a little sanity, especially those who have suffered, is primarily those who have suffered during the war, and the soldiers, they are asking why we have not yet called war, they are asking why we have not yet recognized the territories occupied. And at the time, the Ukrainian government is actually putting a knife in the back of the Ukrainian people -- and it's going in the Russian way of reintegration. I'm talking about the decisions that the Ukrainian government has been making over the past six months, ignoring the numerous decisions of the Supreme Council, namely the Supreme Council's Order on Recognition of Certain Areas, Cities, Villages and Villages of Donetské and Lugansk Areas temporarily occupied in 2015. The Cabinet of Ministers first endorsed the concept of a state-of-the-art program of reconstruction and peace in the eastern regions of Ukraine. You know, in this concept, this concept doesn't even mention the fact that war -- even ATO doesn't mention it? It is an armed conflict in eastern Ukraine that is unknown where it came from. After that, as such a concept was adopted, the government is now adopting in January a plan of action aimed at implementing some of the principles of national domestic policy in specific areas of Donetské and Lugansk, where public authorities do not exercise their powers. I want to tell you what's in this plan: that's what's keeping businesses in occupied territory; that's where we encourage the use of Russian language, by the way, to play with which it's the cause of Russian aggression and occupation; that's where the dialogue with the separatists and the invaders is settled, and to make peace with them, instead of investigating the crimes they've committed. The government pretends we don't have people who don't die, we don't have refugees. And at the same time, the entire burden of damage is on the Ukrainians' shoulders, because Ukrainian taxpayers have to pay for the recovery. I want to make your point that this is an exclusively Russian plan. It's an exclusively Russian plan! And the plan of the oligarchs who contributed to Russian aggression and who are interested in preserving trade in the occupied territory. The Ukrainian way is to recognize the occupation. And until he's punished. everyone and everyone who has promoted Russian aggression, who has supported it, who has encouraged it, cannot speak any language about reintegration and interaction. That's why we're calling on the Prime Minister and the government to review these decisions immediately. We ask Parliament to support the requirement to review such decisions. And we're calling on the Ukrainian Security Service to open up a lead on the state betrayal of those individuals who initiated and contributed to such decisions. Collaborators have to be punished or we won't have a state with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! The time taken to announce applications, messages, proposals, is exhausted, and we're moving on to agenda issues. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. I'm going to propose the first draft of the law with a reduced procedure. I very much ask everyone to take up their jobs and go into the hall. Please invite the deputies to the hall. The first is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection (for the first-line free provision of sanatorium and smoking treatment for war invalids who participated in the ATO). Dear colleagues, I'm going to propose a brief consideration of this bill, and I ask you to support me and please prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to review draft Law 2215 under a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote. [[10:49:23]] For 134 Guys, I'll put it back on. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. Colleagues, given the question of "The status of veterans of war, the guarantees of their social protection," it actually unites Parliament and is being positively understood. Of course, we can look at it for an hour. Then we will not be able to go through other questions. And that's why I think there's got to be a general agreement here for all factions to look at in a simplified procedure, colleagues. I ask you, I'm going to put it to the vote again and I hope for your support, to consider a reduced procedure. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. And, colleagues, I have just been informed that the drafter of the bill is not in the hall. Shinkovic Andry Vasilovich? It's not in the hall, is it? Ready? So, my colleague, while there's no bill 2215, we're going to wait for it to arrive, and we're going to move on to the next 3833. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Freedom of Movement and Free Choice of Residence in Ukraine (as regards granting asylum to homeless persons). So, colleagues, we're going to be the author, we're going to go back to 2215. And once again, I ask you to vote and support the consideration of draft Law 3833 in a simplified procedure, colleagues. Please, 3833 on short notice. I ask you to vote and please support me, colleagues. Vote. Please. [[10:52:51]] For-136 Colleagues, I see, have no political will to consider a reduced procedure. Again, huh? The committee's head asks again, I'll put it again. If there are no votes. Colleagues, if we don't have votes, we'll go in full procedure, colleagues. Please take up jobs. Colleagues, now I'm going to make this last offer, if she doesn't get the votes, we're going to move on to the full procedure. Please take up jobs. I ask that you support the consideration of the shorter procedure for the draft Law 3833. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Are you guys ready? Vote. Please vote. [[10:53:55]] For-149 Okay. Please vote, summary procedure 3833. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:54:20]] For-146 There is no political will for a reduced procedure. Let's move on to the full procedure. So, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Movement and Freedom of Residence in Ukraine. I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Rosenblat Borislav Solomonovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! Dear Lord Chairman! Today, we are introducing a bill that is very short, but very correct. Why? Because it applies to arbitrary procedures for a specific category of citizens. This is about the registration of our compatriots who find themselves in difficult living conditions, namely, those who do not have a place to live. A year ago, we passed a law that established rules for the registration of residences for homeless citizens. But in the course of its application, there were certain points that needed improvement. First. By law, a person can register a residence only at the social institution created by the local government. As we know, current legislation allows for the creation of appropriate centres for charitable and social organizations. According to its status, these accounting centers are no worse than those created by local councils, but they have no right to register. In this regard, it is perfectly fair to compare community institutions and institutions that are established in such rights. The public sector. The second question. The state of residence of a homeless person today can only be registered at the premises where he or she lives. It must be determined that the granting of shelter is only one of the social services provided in our country. At the same time, the majority of such citizens do not live in social institutions but only receive separate social services. According to the law, these citizens should also register their place of residence, but article 6.1 of the law deprives them of such opportunities. The bill therefore proposes that homeless persons be granted the right of registration not only in the event of their immediate residence in a social institution but also in cases where such a person is provided with other social services. Please note that the bill is very short. He received positive conclusions from the relevant working bodies of the Supreme Council. I don't think it contains any provisions that need to be separately worked out between readings. Therefore, I propose to vote not only on his basis but on his basis as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u38	Thank you very much. To the report. Aah!? Three minutes, please. Recording is three minutes. Monsieur, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u39	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. Mr. Reporter, would you please tell me, perhaps it is better not to enact laws on homeless citizens, but to make sure that there are no homeless citizens in our country at all? Perhaps it is better to start working to avoid such a shameful phenomenon in the center of Europe as homeless citizens? Maybe it's better to work on developing our own economy, developing our own industry than engaging in homeless citizens, and multiplying them more faithfully every year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. But first of all, I just want to assure you that while we're doing the social development of our country, these people are already in such difficult conditions. And if we're really going to wait until we're done in our country, these people can just, excuse me, die. So I'm just proposing this law today to somehow regulate this rule and move on to all the composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to improve the economic and social situation in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u41	Thank you. Aresonkov from Peter Dustock's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u42	Boris Solomonovich, I don't really have a question for you from this law. Of course, there is a vote to be made here. I want you to contact all the deputies in the session room right now to stop what's going on. Non-voting for a reduced procedure shows that either a large part of the deputies does not matter at all what law is currently being discussed. What can we now talk about in full procedure? We have to vote now, we have to stop the performances, and we have to move on to the agenda. We have a huge number of serious bills. Vocational technical education raises again the issue of financing this area today, regulatory issues and so forth. So, please let's all vote together where we need it in full procedure, there are laws like this, there we have to go, but where we have to reduce our number of speeches, emotional ones including let's do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u43	Thank you. And the last question is Semenha Roman Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u44	Dear reporter, I have questions about the substance of the bill. The text proposes to expand the registration of homeless subjects, not just for them. for homeless people created by local governments as well as by public organizations. At the same time, the requirement for a homeless person to stay homeless at the Homeless Center to register such a homeless person is lifted. In our view, we have studied this bill carefully on a faction, which may lead to significant manipulations, falsifications through the mass registration of such people during any election campaign. Or, in fact, there have been more than once, for example, 25 districts in Dnipro and many other cities, many of which have often been identified by the public organization OPRAR. So the question to you is, will it not be an even greater expansion of opportunities for abuse, forgeries, which could be the result of distorting the results of the elections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u45	Thank you for asking. When we created this bill, we had no idea that it could somehow affect the electoral system or affect the electoral lists of individuals. We thought first of all about people who today need our protection, the protection of social communities, the protection of social organizations that today can afford to support these people. I think today, these people who are at the edge of their survival, they think, first of all, not about elections, but about how to survive them. That's why I'm here, Your Honor. How right your question is, but we really only thought about those people who need our help today. We didn't mean any electoral processes. This bill will not contribute to counterfeiting in electoral processes, I guarantee you that. Those organizations that are doing, well, sacred work today, supporting these people, they think first of all how they survive today and how to make sure that these people have opportunities in society to find their place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u46	Thank you. Thank you for the report, for the answers. And the report invites the head of the Committee on Human Rights, the national minorities, and the national relations of the Nemira Grigory Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u47	Thank you, Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to all present to support this bill. Now, in responding to a self-help colleague's questions, I want to point out that this is not only about homeless citizens, but also about homeless children. I think it's important to count. The essence of the bill is very simple. There is now no possibility to register a place of residence, if it is an institution, an institution created by public organizations or charities. This is a bill designed to protect the rights of homeless citizens, homeless children who do not have a permanent place of residence. As early as May this year, the committee considered the bill, and unanimously, I stress, unanimously, and the committee includes opposition representatives, and two parties, which make up the majority, supported the bill. Instead, in view of his failure to reach the Plenary Hall, in July of this year, the Cabinet of Ministers introduced its own bill aimed at resolving the same issue, but which has editorial differences from the main bill proposed by colleagues Rosenblatt, Chubarov, and others. In this connection, the Human Rights Committee, at its September 21st meeting, considered these issues and recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act (number 3833) amending the Ukrainian Law on Freedom of Movement and the Free Choice of the Month of Living (for granting shelter to homeless persons) to accept as a basis and entrust the Human Rights Committee to prepare it for a second reading, taking into account the legislative proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as set out in the draft law (registration number 4920). I will also point out that such a committee proposal is fully supported by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u48	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum, Grigory Mikhailovich. Three more minutes for questions and answers, please record to the co-rapporteur. Please. Bachelor's Aunt Dmitry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u49	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to say "thank you" to all the authors of this bill. It is very important to say today how much can be done to ensure that there are no truly homeless people in our country, but statistics show that there are, unfortunately, more than 12,000 in Austria, 13.2,000 in Britain, that is life. Today, my people's deputies - the authors have done very well that this needs to be regulated, regulated by law, because today no one knows how many homeless people really are in Ukraine. It's given by the Ministry of Social Policy that it's about 16,000, although it's probably going to have to be multiplied by ten. The Committee therefore supports the basis and observations made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office. They need to be accounted for. Therefore, the Opposition Unit also supports as a basis, and once again with great gratitude.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u50	Please, Mr. Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u51	Thank you for your support. I would like to point out that on January 1, last year, there were almost 35,000 officially registered homeless people in Ukraine. But that's why I agree with those colleagues who think that real numbers are higher, because they don't register places of residence for those homeless, homeless people who live in social protection facilities that are made by contracts with local governments, local authorities, charities or social organizations, including international public organizations. I think we need to understand that human rights are indivisible, and in this sense the rights of homeless people, homeless citizens, homeless children must be the same as home and shelter.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u52	Thank you. Captain Olena Sergiyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u53	Thank you. I'll get right to the matter to the head of the committee. Please tell me, do you think that the specifics regarding adults and the specifics regarding homeless children should be the same? And what's stated in this bill enough to solve questions about homeless children? Because the question of homeless children -- it already has a complex solution and a number of stages. There's no question and no problem in registering their place of residence, here's the question of how these children are being redistributed, properly establishing the causes of homelessness and so on. I think so. However, I am curious about the purpose of this bill regarding children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u54	Dear colleague Sotnik, thank you for asking. I did not speak in my speech or in comments that the adoption of this law would resolve the issue of homeless children, but at least it would solve the issue of the registration of homeless children. And in that sense, it's just a small contribution, of course, because it doesn't apply all of the complex questions about homeless children, and we have different experiences about it throughout the country. Your question about the possibility of manipulating electoral campaigns about the problems that exist with the electoral commission, with the voter register, is a valid question. But based on this, we cannot actually move forward at all, and the victims in this sense will be the most vulnerable, homeless citizens, homeless children. So I encourage you to consider this and take a small step towards solving the basic issue: enabling you to register.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u55	Thank you. And the last question is Illenko Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u56	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Mr. Reporter! In fact, this law is certainly necessary. We understand the problem that exists with homeless people and especially homeless children. We realize that today, unfortunately, because of economic hardship, because of the lack of State support, many people find themselves in such a crisis of life, we cannot throw them aside. And that is certainly why we should vote in the first reading. The only thing that really wanted to be done before the second reading was some work and we made it impossible even for any theoretical possibility to manipulate this issue at the time of the election, because it's actually possible. We understand how cynical some people are who can even use such questions in some manipulations, so this will have to be taken into account in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u57	Thank you. Thank you, Colleague Illenck, for the right comment and the right question. I agree with the proposal to take this into account, but I also want to point out that this is not a business as usual. The thing is, during the war, we now have a much higher number of homeless citizens, including homeless children, so we have to consider the humanitarian aspect. But from the political point of view, political life I fully support the proposal for second reading, to see how the possibility of manipulation and abuse can be minimised in electoral campaigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u58	Thank you. Thank you for the report, Gregory Mikhailovich. We're going to go to the next chapter of the rules. It's a faction statement. Then there will be speeches from the deputies, but first act from the factions. Please record the performances, please. Lisko Oleg Valeriyovich is handing over Mosiychuk to Igor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u59	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! This bill is part of a worldwide discussion between the Radical Party team and a group of Eurobalabols that have been dug up in the Ukrainian Parliament. [[Applause]] We have supported and supported, and we will support, not words, but the work of the homeless, who, unfortunately, have been led to such a condition. During New Year’s and Christmas’s factions of the Radical Party, our team visited all the shelters, visited hotspots, and helped the homeless. But what are we talking about? The talk is that these people have been led to this and continue to argue and continue to multiply the number of homeless people. Yesterday, a man came to this rostrum, a parliamentarian who is the author of a bill on the sale of Ukrainian land and also a relative of the country’s largest agrarian oligarch Andrija Verevski. Clearly, what and who needs the sale of Ukrainian land. So the Eurorobalabols want us to sell the Ukrainian forest. Eurobalabols want us to sell Ukrainian grain, Ukrainian metal scrap, Ukrainian raw materials. And we want Ukraine to make Ukrainian furniture, Ukrainian cars, make flour, and re-manufacturer. That's the difference, that's the difference between the Radical Party team and those who just "bolobolize" and actually use compadres, is used by those who want to exploit Ukraine! And that's why, considering that it's really a discussion that doesn't need to be passed on to individuals, to Thailand, to the disease of someone or anything else, the Radical Party faction claims and is now preparing a draft release order, for the resignation of Vice Prime Minister from the European integration of Klimpus-Cincadze for betraying national interests in the international arena. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u60	Thank you. It's from Peter Prashenko's People's Deputy Melniczuk. He's coming out of the place. Please, Mr. Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! A small trailer to the previous speaker. Before requiring the resignation of the Deputy Prime Minister and very concerned about the fate of the homeless, the following can be done. The previous speaker can be converted into three single - room apartments at least. Give two to the homeless and thus solve at least a little bit of the problem of people. You don't have to, you don't have to, I didn't interrupt. Yeah, I didn't interrupt you when you were performing. In fact, this bill allows people deprived of their homes to have free access not only to administrative services in established communities, but also to move freely across Ukraine. The Petra Prashenko faction has been approached on numerous occasions by many charities that deal with the homeless. They expressed their support for the bill and asked for it, of course, to be voted on. So we sincerely ask the parliamentarians, we assure them that the Peter Prashenko faction will unanimously support this bill, and let's give it a chance to live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u62	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from the Self-Help faction of the Romanov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u63	The self-help union respects homeless children and homeless people, homeless people, but the point is that this bill does not solve the problem of staying and providing accommodations at night. The point is, the state has to make sure that homeless and homeless people get their homes right away. And now in the current legislation, this problem is taken into account, because social institutions provide housing and this person has to register. The bill offers us to register people where they are simply provided with social services. The concept of social services is very, very extensive. Social services may have little service, not like housing. And that's why we see this bill as a huge risk of manipulation during election campaigns. Because in your district you can create any social organization and register any number of homeless people. As the MP correctly pointed out, there are currently no clear statistics on the number of homeless and homeless persons in Ukraine. Therefore, the self-help union will abstain from voting for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I am now asking to sign up for this bill of Ukrainian MPs. Please write. Please, Victoria the Bird. Ladies and gentlemen, I strongly urge all of us to adhere to political culture, and let's discuss the bill, not exchange replicas and trailers. This will contribute to the year 2017 being marked by a high political culture in the European Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you. Please. Mrs. Victoria. Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u65	I'm asking you to tell Mr. Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u66	I'm asking Mr. Chubarov to the rostrum, please. Mr. Refate, please. Dear colleagues, a distinguished colleague of ours, Rephat Chubarov, who represents the occupied Crimea, including. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u67	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! My speech may not be a bit of a topic, but it all comes up with a question about our citizens, a sense of society. It is known that darkness increases before dawn. It is also obvious, as is the fact that international criminals, who are certainly Putin, are putting out all their efforts to avoid punishment for blackmail, around ultimatums. But for this not to happen in the country, we all need to maintain unity, our will, our self - defense, and our earth. I say this because we need to be very careful about what we do. Yesterday's public statement by our colleague of the national deputy of the Ukraine of Hope Savechenko about the fact that, in order to return Donbas, the Crimea must be abandoned is not only extremely unacceptable but deeply offensive, cynical and treacherous in relation to all Ukrainian citizens, to the Crimean Tatar people who remain hostages of the Russian occupation. Regrettably, such a statement was allowed by a person who went through the horrors of Russian captivity through Russian prisons. I received enough calls from Crimea this morning. People demand explanations, people demand a clear position of state. I've already spoken on the phone with Nadia, a respected colleague of ours, and I hope that she will clarify her position: no concessions to the aggressor. Moreover, from this rostrum, I would like to urge the President of Ukraine to convene the Constitutional Commission as soon as possible, and we are already engaged in the status of Crimea, the future of our peninsula since its return to actual control. So, dear colleagues, we know that for the sake of preserving Ukraine, for further development, for the purpose of solving all the issues that are relevant to Ukrainian citizens, there is no concession of Ukrainian lands. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u68	Thank you, Mr. Rephat, for the state's position. And now we're inviting the People's Deputy of the Opposition Block, Mr. Germany. Please, Mr. Nimchenko, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u69	Opposition Block, Germany. Dear colleagues, I believe that this bill, which is proposed today, does not bear the fullness of the problem that it must solve, such a law. We have forgotten that, to date, under the so-called displaced persons, we have about 2 million Ukrainian citizens, our fellow citizens, who are, in fact, a large part of them, belonging to this status of the homeless. What are we saying, why don't we do all these questions in a complex? Why are we moving away from social protection issues for these citizens? Let's move on. If that's where the division of the front is, let's call it, not our citizens who are homeless because they are simply destroyed by the war on their construction. Where is the question of the decisive social protection of these people? That is why the problem seems to need to be addressed. With regard to this bill, I would like to see a distinction here between the notion of homeless people, as we speak so often about in Ukraine and the homeless. Because in the legal sense, they actually have a different temological burden, that's the question. Therefore, support for this law is likely to be the “Opposition Block”, but those shortcomings must be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u70	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Skuratovski of the Radical Party. He's giving the word to his colleague. From the rostrum. Oleg Lazka, of course. Well, everyone knows your name, Reverend Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u71	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, where do the homeless come from, which one of you knows? The homeless don't fall out of the air, and they don't fly out of Mars; they're our citizens of Ukraine who, as a result of poverty, because they have no place to work, to support their homes, to themselves, to become homeless. Many of these people, who are homeless today, have lost their homes because they are pensioners, have taken this place away because of various fraud schemes. They were not protected by law enforcement or the judicial system, nor were they able to work or earn money. And so if you wanted to see what homeless people are like, you'd be like a radical party team that fed homeless people all over the country on Christmas Eve, which one of you fed these people? Which one of you is from your New Year's Eve table, which broke from the snacks, to the oil and snacks, which one of you at least took a piece of bread and took the homeless to the train station, to the back, to the garbageyard, where they're digging, the former teachers, the former doctors, walking in a striped hood, which is 40 years old, which a decent man once wore, today he's walking around, digging up garbage. And so when you're looking at bills here, you're tired of people's heads, you need one bill to get these homeless people to vote for power -- that's the purpose of the bill you're considering. And in fact, your policy, your comprador, your current power, and your parliamentary majority is leading to Ukraine's soon to be homeless. All of Ukraine! Because you deprive people of their jobs, their wages. You want to turn Ukraine into a banana republic, a raw colony. And you want against our policy that gives Ukrainians a job. As a tank, I'll move you to anyone who wants to take a job, a salary, and an opportunity to live in their home country. And so the only way to overcome the problem of unemployment is to employ, protect people, give them normal tariffs, give them pay, give them normal pensions so they don't get married, and then there'll be no homeless people in the country. A particular category of homeless people is children. When a child finishes boarding school, no one needs her, she's thrown away on her own. I was raised five years in a children's dormitory and from 1st to 11th grade in the boarding school, and I know all of you better what orphans and children are. Is the State helping them today? No, it's not. These children either go to County or jail or homeless. Instead of running state support for physical culture, sports, the health of the nation, that's all the Radical Party stands for. And you parasites want to stop us?Oh, my God! You're not gonna make it!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u72	Once again, I urge all my colleagues to respect each other. And here's an invitation from the People's Deputy of the Dove of Peter Dustenk, a distinguished colleague. From the place, please, People's Deputy Dove. Please turn on Mr. Dove's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u73	Thank you. Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Irina Volodymyrno, I will address you. Well, first of all, on the substance of the bill, so as not to violate the Rules, the faction of "Peter Prashenko's Block" will support the bill. But I'm going to talk to you, and I just want the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules Act to be followed in this session hall. As yesterday, many times today, the factions of one factions in parliament have repeatedly failed to appear on the subject of the bill. According to article 36 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the chairman interrupts the speech by the designated national deputy, if it does not concern the subject, has some offensive speeches and so on. Madam Chairman, I am personally asking you to stop such speeches by the national MPs when they are not merely interfering with some kind of insult or something, but in general that do not apply to the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again I ask you to abide by the 36th article of our Rules, not to prevent the presiding from holding meetings and honoring each other. Please, I beg of you! I am convinced that we will succeed in our mutual respect and love for each other in 2017 under the leadership of the Honourable Speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I now take the floor to speak to the honorary colleague of the non-frustrational Mr. Matkowski. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u75	Please pass the word to Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u76	Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Sokalstina, Red Town. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this bill in many ways, but first of all, this bill regulates the order of involvement of non-State organizations in helping homeless people. It turns out in our Ukrainian legislation this is. This function is placed exclusively on the state, and many social organizations, charities that would be able to raise donor funds, would be able to attract mercenat funds, they don't legally have that possibility. So this point, which is set out in the bill, is very important for building in Ukraine, including civil society and the ability to help, no matter what the state is capable of, can't help homeless people, maybe interested social organizations will do that. And I want to take off, maybe this is a warning that our self-help colleagues are making, they're seeing enemies everywhere: the authorities are going to manipulate, the authorities are going to do something with those homeless people, they're going to vote for them. Well, actually, it's not that easy to get into voter lists, it's a necessary registration and it's a long procedure. So I don't see any manipulation here at all. And how many homeless people do we have, if there's 10 or 20 people out there and they can get social assistance, the risk you're talking about is absolutely worthless. And I would ask everyone to pay attention to this and, if there is no objection to the hall, maybe even to support this bill, not just on the basis, but in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u77	Thank you, dear fellow Moses. And now Mr. Shurma, Igor Shurma of the Opposition Block, is invited to the floor. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u78	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. The opposition bloc will support this bill in adopting it as a basis, because it is beginning to at least somehow draw attention to the problems of those who have lost their homes and do not actually have a place to live. The question is solved in some way. And the main thing, as the previous speaker said, is that before this issue is resolved, there is the involvement of non-state, non-profit organizations. We will support this bill, but only as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u79	Thank you. And, please, we invite the national MP, the distinguished Mr. Kishkar Paul, to the floor. Mr. Paul Kishkar, I ask you to be excused from speaking to your colleague and I invite you to speak. You're taking your word for it. Najem National Deputy. He doesn't want to speak either. Mrs. Tetjana Yuzkov, your honor, will you take the floor? You're up now. No, you won't. Dear colleague Wolf. It won't be either. Dear colleague Illenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u80	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, today we see a day when we do not consider those perhaps excessive bills that the Ukrainian people today need. And in general, we see that this week, actually, the daily order isn't very saturated, and it's very bad. But in this case, we need to vote in favour of this law, although only in the first reading, in order to complete it properly, to remove all the dangers that are there, from the point of view of possible manipulation in elections, and to support people who today find themselves on the street who cannot have their own place today. And it has to be understood that yes, of course, war has contributed to this when many people have lost their lives as a result of fighting, and this has also contributed to a catastrophic economic situation. And today, when you see the demands of the International Monetary Fund in Ukraine, I understand that they want the number of people on the street to increase tens of times in Ukraine. Because what's being proposed: increasing the retirement age, eliminating the simplified taxation system, the land market is so called, many others, completely antisocial, anti-national things -- are totally unacceptable. We need to be aware of that. And if we pursue politics in our national interests, if we pursue politics, not that Ukraine is just a raw addition to other states, but a country that produces high-tech products that generates added value, then we don't have that many homeless people, then people will have jobs, they will have housing, and we won't have to ask for loans, and we don't have to go into a debt pit. And then we don't need those laws in principle. And now we have to vote first in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u81	So, dear colleagues, we've finished the discussion. Now I'm going to take the floor for Rosenblatt Borislav Solomonovich. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite all the deputies to the Hall. And I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. We are now moving on to making a decision. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Excuse me, from the Ministry, I'll give the floor to the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u82	Fedorovich Natalia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u83	Please come in. We'll listen to the Ministry's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u84	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! As of today, homeless persons are entitled to a place of registration only if they live in established municipal institutions. If they live. Instead, many homeless people who use accommodations do not actually have the right to be registered because they do not have a place to live. They only have a place to stay. So we urge you to support today's bill, it's very important, based on taking into account the position of the Government Bill under number 4920. And we ask you to fully support the position of the Committee on Human Rights, National Relations and. Nationalities and international relations. Thank you. I ask you very much to support this as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u85	Thank you, colleagues. And now the closing word. Everyone please come into the hall, colleagues. Please, Rosenblatt Borislav Solomonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I want to ask you again today to support this bill. I understand there are risks today that we haven't even seen or even thought about voting in Ukraine, so I would really like to ask you to support in general. But, really, I don't want to delay this question, I don't really want the people who need our help today to enter into some political process, and I agree that let's take it as a basis in the first reading, and by the shortened procedure and the second reading, we vote it. I think we should support these people today who need our attention so much. Thank you. And I look forward to your vote. And I ask you to come into the hall and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, in the course of the discussion, we have found that not all factions support, and so it is necessary to mobilize who is in favor of this law. The committee has offered to take the foundation as a whole, but I think it's going to be right, as I'm just going to lay the groundwork, it's going to be more likely to support it. To make all these warnings that there is. I can't hear anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u88	So, colleagues, I'm just going to lay the groundwork, just like I suggested a committee representative. And I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please, we're taking up jobs. Colleagues, help me mobilize the factions. Not everyone's in the workplace right now. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Movement and Freedom of Circumstances in Ukraine (as far as granting shelter to homeless persons) (No. 3833) as a basis, colleagues. Just for the basis. All changes can be made between the first and second readings. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. We vote 3833 as the basis. Please vote. [[11:40:08]] For 210 Colleagues, are there any remedies that can help us make a decision? You'll support the first reading, won't you? First reading. I'm telling you, in the first reading, colleagues. Please come into the hall. I'll be right back, I'll just put it on the first reading, just on the first reading, please come into the hall. And I'm asking you to support me in the first reading. All the adjustments and suggestions that we have, we can make between the first and the second readings. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. So, colleagues, I'm going to put the motion to vote back to 3833, I'm just going to lay the groundwork, just in the first reading. Please support the return to the 3833 draft law and please vote. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:41:22]] For 226 We're back, colleagues. Please mobilize. I emphasize: just as a basis. I'm asking you to mobilize and back up. Colleagues, please, come to the workplace and I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Movement and Freedom of Residence in Ukraine (as regards granting shelter to homeless persons) (3833) as a basis. Just on the ground, colleagues. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:42:11]] For 230 Decision taken, colleagues. I mean, right now we're going to have, I'm asking you not to split up, now we're going to have two shows from the factions, and then we're going to move on to the important decisions, and we're going to need to mobilize all the national MPs as well. So I'm in sequence: the first to apply for the performance of the faction of the Opposition Block and the will of the people. And they're going to take a break for the performance. I'll give you three minutes to play Igor Shurma. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u89	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I was forced to make a statement today by the Prime Minister that, during the ninth month of the government's work, they are taking up political consultations on the appointment of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please tell me, where in the world did you see a civilized developed state where the government works for nine months without a health minister? Today, this poor government, which is without a minister of health, is making the wrong conclusions about what happens when voting, tells us that the Health Development Concept has been adopted. I would like to remind both Mr. Kubov and Mr. Groissman, as they say, that the adoption of the Concept for the Development of Health Finance and the Adoption of the Concept of Public Health is not the Concept for the Development of the National Health System. It's just light fragments, insecure fragments that don't lead to anything. And if, you think, the Cabinet of Ministers decree on the redistribution of funds and the change in the financing of OHMATDIT reform, then you should be ashamed of it. We are demanding that a health - care candidate be placed in the hall. Enter, the Cabinet of Ministers you want, we have a clear position, we will not support the Suprun candidate. If the majority of those who have once put in the chair of the historian Kwiatashvili, who has collapsed all the work, the drugs he purchased in 2015 have not been placed to date, please vote for Suprun and be responsible for it. Why don't we vote for the Suprun. Because the concept of the development of the national health system is not proposed or accepted today. Today, the Act on Emergency Medical Care, which guarantees the safety of people’s vitality, is no longer in force. Today, the purchases for 2016 are completely down and nothing is purchased. Today, we all say, "There is no financing for full-scale health care." I have a question for a temporary duty. How did you sign this budget in your lack of money department? Why are you not in the Cabinet of Ministers for the benefit of both people and health workers? Today, more than that, we are offered an American health model. I'm not saying it's bad, but I have a question about why on January 12, the United States Senate initiated a procedure for calling off Obamaaker, a health insurance that was a reform. Did you take part in this program, Mrs. Suprun? We demand a candidate, and let them take responsibility for the state of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u90	The next statement from two factions -- "Peter Prashenko's Block" and "The People's Front" -- is given three minutes to speak to Dmitri Lubintz. I ask you, after that we move on to the following questions, please remain in the hall. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u91	Good afternoon! Lubinet Dmitry, majority electoral district number 60, Donetsk district, city of Volnovaha. As a representative of the Ukrainian Donbas, I would like to address all my colleagues today. I want you to listen for two minutes to a person who sees every day that this is actually a war in our east, not just because of the photos that sometimes show us. So I would like to say that exactly two years ago, in Kiev, we had a "Marsh of Unity" under the single motto "I-Wolnovah" and we all mentioned the dead who died just in this Russian aggression in the east of our country. I would now like to turn to all of us now that on the eve of the Day of Assembly, instead of rocking the situation, unifying Ukraine and dividing it into varieties, we must unite it and think of only one way to defeat our enemy and save our country. I would also like to say to everyone that Ukraine does not end within one constituency or within one inhabited area. I would like to say that my patriotism, the people's deputies, should be shown here, in the session room, for example, when voting for the state budget of Ukraine, where huge funding for our Armed Forces, which protects our compatriots with you. I would like to say that in addition to words we need to do, and people now trust only in actions. Ukraine is a choral one, Ukraine is the only one and Ukraine is definitely going to win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u92	Heroic glory! So the factions are finished. We move on to the next issue of the agenda. Colleagues, this is the second reading and there's a small number of rights, very small. So please mobilize, the next draft of the Law of the Day Order is number 1248: the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation (to improve the specific provisions of youth policy and to establish youth centres). I invite you to report to the first deputy head of the Committee on Youth Policy and Sports, Milo Romanović. Please, Mr. Mikola, this will be a short law so stay in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u93	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! On July 5, 2016, the committee discussed at its meeting the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for the Improvement of Individual Provisions of Youth Policy and the Establishment of Youth Centers) (registration number 1248) and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill in second reading and in general. Drafting a bill that is proposed for adoption in a second reading and generally provides that youth centres can be set up, reorganized and eliminated by executive authorities, local governments, and public organizations in an orderly manner established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It also predicts that the State's certification of youth centers as a form of government control is taking place under the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Youth centers are proposed to identify as non-profit institutions that are formed to address the issues of social development and development of young people. All aspects of the creation, operation, financing, direction and elimination of youth centres are proposed to be defined by the standard position on youth centres approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In all, 37 amendments and proposals have been made to the bill from the legislators, the committee suggests that 13 amendments be taken into account, that 17 amendments be rejected, and that 7 amendments be partially taken into account. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u94	Thank you. Thus, respected colleagues were carried out by a huge work both by the committee and by a working group. Now we're going to discuss these changes that have been rejected and I'm asking the right-wing authors to prepare for the discussion, with a very brief request. So second, Lensky. Don't insist. Lensky. Oh, there's Lechchenko, yes. So, 3rd, Artushenko. Don't insist. 4th, Gorbunov. Don't insist. Sixth, Semenha. Don't insist. 7th, I've been walking. Don't insist. 9th, Dove. Don't insist. 17th, Macola. Don't insist. 18th, I was walking. Don't insist. 19th. Dove. Don't insist. You see, we've been able to take a completely unifying position, all right-wing authors support the basic text. 23rd. I've been walking. Don't insist. 24th. I've been walking. Don't insist. 26th. Gorbunov. Don't insist. 28th. Dove. Don't insist. 30th. I've been walking. Don't insist. 31st. Sold. Mrs. Oksana, you raised your hand. 31st. Sold. Don't insist. Okay. And so all the amendment authors agree with the text prepared by the committee for the second reading. And I ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. We're done talking, Mikolo Romanovich, thank you. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Colleagues, a convincing offer to return to the workplace, prepare for the vote, and we move on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (for the improvement of specific provisions of youth policy and the creation of youth centres) (number 1248) in the second reading and in general. We support young people, we support the bill. Please vote, please support your colleagues, we vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:53:31]] For 181 Colleagues, let's take a look at the factions. Colleagues, if. Oleg Valeriyovich! If we put it again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please! If. [[B in m in s a l in]] Again! Now, let's take a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Again! Colleagues, pay attention! I see by factions that offer. Once again, the second is the only possible offer, this is a return, in fact, to the committee. Colleagues, let's mobilize. There's an offer for re-reading, that's to return to the committee. I'm asking you to take a job, come into the hall. I'm going to put the next proposal, which is set by the regulation, on re-reading the second reading. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs. And I'm asking you to support the proposal, Bill 1248 on improving the individual positions of youth policy and setting up youth centres for re-reading. Please vote, please support. Vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[11:55:39]] For 211 I see. We didn't make it, yeah! Fellows, I'll put you back on the line, please remain in your seats, on your way back. If there are no votes, the bill will be rejected. I'm asking you to take up jobs. Colleagues, pay attention! Please take up jobs, I'll make another offer to go back to the study. Anyone who supports the proposal to return to draft Law 1248, please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please vote. [[11:56:41]] For 201 The decision is not taken. No votes. So the 1248 bill is rejected. The authors have done a great job, but this will enable them to prepare a new law during the inter-sessional period and we will look for the opportunity to find voices in its support. Unfortunately, today’s votes are not enough for him to accept. My colleagues, I also have an announcement in my lobby that I would like to read. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "Cooperation of Ukraine - Diaspora" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Lubinz Dmitry Valeriyovich, was elected head of this association. The first deputy and deputy of the head is the National Deputys of Ukraine Suslov Irina Mikolayevna and Silantiev Denis Olegovich. Welcome to the formation of the group, with the selection of leadership. And, honourable colleagues, according to the Rules, we now have a break of 30 minutes. I'm asking everyone to meet in the hall at 12 o'clock, 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! Time spent for a break is over. Please enter the hall and prepare for the continuation of our work. Dear colleagues, I have an address for you. It's fashionable. Thus, the Committee on Youth and Sports asks that their draft decisions be transferred. And I think we're all out of respect for our Committee of Youth and Sports and for his head, and we're not going to deny their decisions to carry on, and that's how we're going to consider them next Wednesday. And now we're going to the next chapter, this is the chapter "to review with the proposals of the President of Ukraine" of the two bills. We have to go through these bills formally and it's important that we look at them in the hall and make decisions on them so that we can prepare new drafts on this issue during the inter-sessional period. So we go to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian State Budget for 2016 with proposals by the President (3830-3). I want to remind you that these bills have a special consideration. They do not need to vote in favour of a reduced procedure; they provide only a report from the reporter and the co-reporter as well as a question to the reporter and the co-rapporteur. We are moving to a review of Ukrainian Law 3830-3, and I invite you to a report by President Gerasimov of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u96	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! On February 24, 2016, the President of Ukraine, not agreeing with the proposed solution to the problems of financing professional and technical education, returned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the Ukrainian Act on Change of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2016 on the Financing of Vocational and Technical Education (No. 3830-3), with its proposals for its rejection. Moreover, it should be noted that the above - mentioned law has lost its relevance to the following. On 21 December 2016, the Ukrainian Parliament passed the Ukrainian Act on the National Budget for Ukraine for 2017. Along with the above - mentioned law, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has also adopted appropriate amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code for Improving Budgeting and Budgeting. Bill number 5131, you remember that. These laws provide a number of provisions that address the problem of financing vocational and technical education. Yes, at the legislative level, the authority of local self-government authorities for district budgets, budgets for district centres and the budget of Kiev for services for the training of qualified workers in professional and other public and/or municipal institutions is normalized. In addition, expenditure on the work of teachers of vocational and technical institutions of state and municipal property in part of the provision of full-time general secondary education will be made on the basis of an educational subsidy. Taking into account the above, the Ukrainian Act on Change in the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 (No. 3830-3) on the financing of vocational and technical education should be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u97	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum. Now question to the reporter, three minutes. Please record the question. Please. Please, Illenko Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u98	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Mr. Arthur, in fact, the issue of vocational education has become one of the most controversial and most scandalous in recent times. Because we realize that this is really a sector that's extremely important, it's in a crisis, a critical situation because of this kind of policy. Because we understand that there are now critical shortages of people in Ukraine who have working skills that will work in production, who will create some added value. Unfortunately, instead of developing this vital field of education, it is in fact being destroyed. Because there are very few communities in the local community, they have the opportunity to fully finance vocational schools. And that's why the Supreme Council, I think, has to do everything I can to make sure that there's a professional world, and so that local communities don't be forced into it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u99	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u100	Today we have to get out of this situation in a decent way and give the Ukrainians a signal that the Supreme Council, after all, finds financial opportunities to cover such an extremely important direction of funding. That's why I think it's very necessary today, and we need to go out with these bills to their editors that will allow this to happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u101	Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u102	Thank you for asking. I want to fully agree with the statement that this sector is, indeed, extremely important for Ukraine because today the key task is to create new jobs and also to attract investment. For investments to be made in this country, we need not only engineers, not only higher education representatives, but also workers. In addition, I also want to assure you that both the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine will do their utmost to ensure that this sector is supported at the state level. But when you talk about communities being unable or unable to answer, you see that very much today depends on decentralization processes and, above all, financial decentralization, which, I remind you, began on January 1, 2015, not even last year. Exactly. You know that elections have now taken place in united communities. These communities are now in a position to acquire financial power, including financial power. I've had a lot of contact with the leaders, with the deputies, with the representatives of those communities that. Finish it, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u103	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u104	Which has worked for a year under the conditions of this decentralization, financial first and foremost. And I want to tell you that, really, they also feel this problem, and they're ready with us, and here I also emphasize the role of both the Supreme Council and the President and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but they're ready with us to raise up those vocational and technical institutions that exist in their territories. So aside from, of course, finding reserves and helping -- financial reserves, I mean -- and helping develop this area, we also have a very serious issue in support of all the bills that relate to decentralization and its.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u105	Thank you. And the last question is Lewchenko Yuri. He's refusing. And I thank you for Arthur Gerasimov's report. And I invite you to the report. I have written the head of the Kulichenko subcommittee Ivan Ivanovich. Please invite the head of the Committee’s Committee on Budget Affairs, Ivan Ivanovich, to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the budget period 2016 is over. Part of the issues that are covered by the 2017 budget in the trade sector. And really there's a lot of questions that aren't settled at this point. The Budget Committee believes that the Ministry of Education and Government should prepare new proposals, a new Education Act, including a professional technical law, on their basis, already recognise the sources of funding for this law. And with respect to Law 3830-3 exactly like 3831-2 lost their relevance, they can't be accepted, so they should be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u107	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum. Please record the question to the co-rapporteur. Please. Please, Yuri Solovay. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u108	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear Ivan Ivanovich, I fully support you in the fact that the relevance of this issue is exhausted. But nowhere has the problem of financing the industry today. Please tell me, are there any specific work yet, and have they reached the Budget Committee in the form of final documents? As you can see, both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance continue to share the share of trade and education. Who's going to finance the transfer of vocational schools and, in general, do we have the final option of reforming this, very important, training chains for our children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u109	Thank you for asking. We met several times last year with the Ministry of Education and Finance, and we discussed problems, and we found ways through the funding reserve, we talked about problems. And the Ministry of Education supported the budget committee by preparing changes to the direct professional law. Unfortunately, however, we have not received any suggestions at this time to initiate changes to the Budget Code and to solve the urgent problems that unfortunately we have today, especially in cities, not district centres where education measures are affected.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u110	Thank you. Thank you, John Ivanovich, for the report. You can take your place. And, colleagues, the discussion is over. Now, according to the Rules, I have three proposals to make. It's the first to reject the law, the second to defeat the President's veto, the third to send to the committee for work. We're going to go through each one of them, but I want to emphasize that we have to do this formal procedure so that we can draft new bills so that we can register new bills during the inter-sessional period. And that's why we're going to vote in line with all three proposals. So, first, who supports the proposal to reject Ukrainian law 3833? Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[12:48:21]] For-56 The proposal did not get the required number of votes. Next to defeat the veto of the President of Ukraine under draft Law 3833. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[12:48:49]] For-78 78 for. The decision is not made. And, lastly, to be sent to the committee for further work, which supports the proposal, please vote, to the committee for further elaboration of the Law of Ukraine 3833. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, vote, colleagues. [[12:49:19]] For-103 103 for. The decision is not made. Thus the Law of Ukraine 3833 was rejected. Ukraine's Next Act on Change to the Ukrainian Budget Code on the Financing of Vocational and Technical Education, with proposals by the President of Ukraine 3831-2. Once again, I invite Arthur Gerasimov to the report of the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u111	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Law on Change to the Ukrainian Budget Code on the Financing of Vocational and Technical Education (registration number 3831-2) is systematically related to the law that we have previously considered (number 3830-3), from which it is derived. Thus, with regard to this law, the arguments put forward during the Ukrainian President's report on Ukraine's 2016 National Budget for Ukraine's proposal to finance vocational and technical education remain valid. Taking into account the above-mentioned Ukrainian Act on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for the Financing of Vocational and Technical Education, it is appropriate to reject. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u112	Thank you. Please record the question to the reporter, please. Please, Halasyuk. Noisyuk, Baby, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u113	I'm transmitting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u114	Please, Baby Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u115	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. I have no questions for the President's representative with respect to Mr. Gerasimov. I have a question for the President himself, Peter Prashenko, I have a question for the government, and I have a question for the Comprador majority in Parliament that deprives children and rural families, children from low-income families, orphans from vocational education. I understand that your task is to turn Ukraine into a banana republic, to get everything out of here, like Miklucho-Maklai and the parrots used to trade gold in a mirror, so you want to export raw materials from Ukraine, not create jobs. Ukrainians will be unemployed as a result of such policies. But you don't care much. Unlike you, we are concerned about these questions. We want the Ukrainians to have a decent job to pay, and Ukraine to be competitive in today’s global world. What moves today’s countries in the forerunner of economic development? That's knowledge and that's technology. How can you be a developed country when you deprive children, Ukrainian children, of the ability to learn? Not everyone can be a lawyer and an economist, someone needs to be a carpenter, a bricklayer, a builder, a piggy, a milkmaid, and a mechanic. You write today from within the governors and ministers' borders, wipe your eyes, and look at the Ukrainian people who are willing to replace everyone in the world from the President-President, I'll replace everyone else, and they'll replace everyone else. You're bringing in so-called experts from across the border, you rocked every scumbag, you gave a Ukrainian passport, instead of the Ukrainians raising our country. So we're opponents of your politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u116	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich! Dear colleagues! First, the economic development of this state is one of the main priorities. One of the main priorities for both the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ukrainian Parliament. Above all, only the support of our Ukrainian army, which protects our sovereignty and integrity, can be more important. And besides, I want to tell you that all the economic laws that, among other things, are very much prepared with your party representative Victor Halasyuk, the Peter Dustyunka Block supports and gives the most votes for them, and you can look at these results. This is for the general economic part. We too are for an economically developed and powerful Ukraine. As for supporting our young people's knowledge and support, it's also one of the main priorities, because if we know a lot of words, we don't develop education in this country, if we don't develop the workers' specialties, we talked about it during the discussion of the previous law, how do we want to invite investment in this country, how we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u117	Please give me a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u118	How do we want to support new businesses? So I would like to stress once again: the development of Ukraine's economy is a top priority for this Parliament. And you can see that even this week, despite everyone. The absence of deputies in certain factions, we've passed a lot of important economic laws, too, let's see our vote on Tuesday. Therefore, the key is to unite and together strengthen the country’s economic capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u119	Thank you, Mr. Arthur, for the report and for the answers. Question time is up, and I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on the budget of Kulichenk Ivanovich to report. Please, John Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, in my previous speech, I spoke on two laws and recommended, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, that I reject the law when I lost my relevance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u121	Thank you. So three minutes to record the question to the co-rapporteur. Please hold the recording. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u122	Thank you. Please give me the word of Medunic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u123	Dear John Ivanovich, well, it's obvious that right now the issue will not be up to you, but more to the government. Because in fact, we've done a little bit of business with the financing of vocational education. In my opinion, which is supported by practice, professional and technical education in Ukraine should now not be financed as it is financed: somewhere in the city, somewhere in the district budget, which receives a subsidy from the state budget, but only from the district budget. Minfin has to allocate the financial resources, all the area. All schools have to become, not state-owned, but regional municipal property, and there, at the level of the MPs, experts have to decide what the workers' specialties are needed to develop the region, to prepare these specialties at the expense of both state subsidies and local money. And unfortunately, we still have this system, this system. Of course this is the law now. Actually, which we're talking about right now, the relevance is lost.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u124	Thank you. I understand it wasn't a question, it was a speech. And I would like to give you my word for the question of Lensky Alexiyyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u125	Please pass the word to Halasyuk Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u126	Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have to stop reforming entire areas of life in Ukraine, such as education, budgetary legislation. This is wrong in the root when we limit education funding in the budget or in the IMF memorandum, it means that the main thing is the economy of expenditure, and then, as a result, government policy is being built. We have to do the exact opposite, because if we continue what we do: the multiplication table is passed on to later classes, it excludes mathematics, physics and other fundamental objects from the mandatory program, it weakens the evaluation system. I have a question: what do they want to prepare for the school of slaves in general so that they can work on raw plantations and then only export materials from Ukraine and in other countries produce them? No, it's not. We need to radically change our approach to reforming the education system and to do fundamental things.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u127	Thank you. It was also, I understand, a performance. And the last actual question. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u128	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, look what's going on. The Yatzenuk government, after completely destroying vocational and technical education, has found no other way to transfer significant expenditure to local self-government authorities, in 2016 the Supreme Council adopts a law, where we propose that the government return to either public funding or implement a separate subsidy. Today’s government, which proposed the 2017 budget, has found nothing on the reform of vocational education. And today we have to vote with you, let's say, the veto overtakes the President for the law -- changes to the 2016 budget. Of course, a member of the Committee on Budgets says that he is out of date. In fact, I lost, but let's go to the government: please propose a reform of vocational and technical education -- that's 500,000 children -- as we're going to do next year. Local self - government authorities are unable to do so today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u129	I'm sorry, dear fellows, I'm a little out of the rostrum, all the more out of the way. I'm talking to you again: if you want to have a professional budget code, get involved in the work of a professional law, let's look at how we're going to start preparing the next budget. Otherwise, money will overtake problems again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-18-m0.u130	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. And, dear colleagues, I will, as in the previous case, put on the three votes that we have to formally pass. The first is to reject the law. The second is to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine. And the third is to be sent to the committee for work. And I'm going to put these proposals in sequence. So first. Who supports the proposal to reject Ukrainian Law 3831-2. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please. Deviation of the law. The first is the deviation. I warned you. [[13:01:12]] For-69 The decision is not made. The other one. Careful! The second will be the defeat of the veto of the President of Ukraine. A second suggestion to be made under the Rules. Whoever supports this proposal -- the President's veto to the Ukrainian Law 3831-2 -- please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:01:42]] Z-85 The decision is not made. And the final offer is to send it to the committee for further work. Whoever supports the proposal to send the Ukrainian Law 3831-2 to the committee for further elaboration, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:02:13]] For-123 The decision is not made. Thus, Ukraine's Law 3831-2 is rejected. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that, at the request of the Committee on Youth and Sports, we have moved the entire cluster of issues to the next Wednesday for further work, in fact, these two bills that we would formally pass were the last in today’s agenda. Colleagues — What Are the Suggestions? [[B in m in s a l in]] Wise! Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, due to the exhaustion of the order of the day, I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council closed. I want very productive work on the committees. Guys, it's gonna be a big day tomorrow! Tomorrow we have a block of local self-government laws. The question of the Constitutional Court is tomorrow. I ask you to concentrate as much as possible so that tomorrow at 10 a.m. we can work effectively and effectively. At the same time, I want a good corner today. It's Christmas Eve. And yet, I'm asking everyone tomorrow at 10 o'clock to come to the hall to continue our work. It's going to be a very important day. And today's fruitful committee work, colleagues. Thank you. See you tomorrow.
