ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues ready for registration? So, colleagues, please register. Please register. [[10:02:50]] 343 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, yesterday, February 20, the third anniversary of the shootings of members of the Dignity Revolution at the Maidan of Independence in Kiev was over. A heartless, foolish, and cruel shot led to the death of many of the Heroes of the Celestial 100. Please honor our soldiers with the light of Heaven's 100th minute of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Today we're going to start our work day with two bills and one decree that are designed to honor the feat of our heroes, in particular the draft Law 5697: amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Veterans of War and Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, which compares the members of the Dignity Revolution who have been injured to the participants in the fighting. Yesterday we met with the families of the Heroes of Heaven and agreed that we would adopt this bill in the first reading and then work together on the second reading. And I think this will be worthy of the honor of those heroes who were in Ukraine in Maidan three years ago. Also, colleagues, I would like to inform you that today he is sworn in by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the newly elected deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would also like to welcome to the birthday of two of our colleagues who are celebrating their birthday today. Anna Anatolyevna Romanov. We welcome her on her birthday. [[Applause]] And so did Dmitri Alexandrovich Biloczerkowec. Welcome to our friend's birthday party. [[Applause]] So, honourable national MPs, on February 17, 2017, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, who was elected on the electoral side of Ukraine on October 26, 2014 in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency, Benjuzhenko Fedor Volodymyrovic, who was included in the election list of the National Front political party. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Benjuženko Fedir Volodymyrovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u2	Good afternoon. I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u3	Thank you. Welcome to the newly elected National Deputy of Ukraine. And, colleagues, I want to emphasize once again and remind you that we have the first block of questions. These will be questions relating to the veneration of the Heroes of the Celestial 100, as well as questions of national security and defense. We also have today the issue of agrarian politics and the issue of a fuel-energy complex. And so I'm asking all my colleagues very much for a disciplined, efficient job, but we're going to have to start working on the day-to-day session. I'm going to ask the faction to review the agenda again, and if there are certain bills that you think are not included in the agenda of the day session, you can hear them during the discussion to get these bills included. And I hope that today we can unanimously establish the order of the day session. Now, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes for statements by authorized members of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, statements, messages. And I remind all the representatives and groups and factions to participate in the recording and to sign up for the performance. So, colleagues, can I make a recording? Please record from factions and groups. Please. The first to appear is the representative of the People's Front, the head of the Maksim Burbak faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! "The People's Front" as one of the two factions of the majority coalition, responsible for the situation in the country, aware of the threats to national security in connection with the continuous, after the Dignity Revolution, a targeted attack on Russia's sovereignty and the independence of the Ukrainian state declares the following. First. The Kremlin’s authoritarian government has for decades exploited democratic freedoms in free countries, buying media, insolently interfering with electoral processes, and leading pro-Russian regimes to power. Today, the whole state-run car is focused on using Ukrainian freedoms for subversive activities. The logic of Russia is clear, it is virtually impossible in Ukraine to stop the activity of pro-Russian information resources, since this means an effort to free speech. In Ukraine, you can set up paid shares of Russian provocateurs because any ban can be considered a violation of human constitutional rights. In Ukraine roads and railways are blocked, and the state is powerless to reconnect. The other one. We claim that democracy is undisturbed, that we have put our heads in the hundreds of heaven for it, that thousands of Ukrainian defenders have died on the front. At the same time, however, we must find the answer to Russia's hybrid war, using our democratic freedoms, to form democratic procedures that will provide for their unconditional implementation. Until that happens, our state will be weak and vulnerable to any provocation. So we urge the Ukrainians to be vigilant and not allow themselves to be used by the forces that are financed and acting on Moscow's orders. Third. In urgent order, the government should prohibit trade in occupied areas of Donetsk and Luhansk, confirming a comprehensive list of goods and items that can be imported through the line of delimitation on both sides. It should be exclusively about goods purchased or sold by businesses registered in Ukraine that pay taxes to Ukraine’s budget. This is necessary to prevent price and tariff increases, business stops, and exchange rate pressures. Four. The government has to develop and implement, based on the decisions of the PNB, a combination of measures to diversify sources of coal supply and other resources. The first step is to meet the 30 percent general need for anthracite from sources outside Russia and occupied territories. There should be formed fuel reserves, LEP alternative lines for areas that are now receiving electricity from occupied areas. There is also a need to develop and implement a program for the development of new energy cells and the reconstruction of existing power grids of thermal power plants using the coal of anthracite groups to ensure that they use the coal of the domestic gas group. Fifth. A fundamental decision must be made on Ukraine’s energy independence from Russia and the Fay Republics of Donbas. Six. The President of Ukraine should present and approve in Parliament a plan for the liberation of Crimea and Donbas, which should be part of the order of relations with the occupied territories. And finally. To some opponents and those whom I did not see in Midan as deputy commander, Andria Paruba, I would like to remind myself of the programmes and manifestations of Maidan. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u5	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u6	This is a plan of action and guidance that we adopted on Maidan three years ago, which we have to put into practice. Much has been done, much more needs to be done, and a visa-free regime needs to be put in place. But the main thing from us is the unity and continuation of reforms to build the only independent European state in Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u7	From Peter Prashenko's Block, Igor Green's is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Dear compatriots! In these days, Ukraine celebrates the Dignity Revolution, which has become a turning point in the history of our nation. Throughout the prism of time alone, the priceless historical significance of events in Midan becomes evident. In the end, society was given a historic opportunity to build an updated state by its rules and interests. Three years ago, Ukrainians took to the streets to join the European community, where equality of rights and democracy are the main factors in the development of society. But democracy is the force of the law, not the law of power. The MP's mandate gives the right to create and adopt laws, not to punish them, to bully, to beat the police or to block the railway. The Ukrainian people chose us because they believed that each of us could contribute to the construction of a new state. Rather than justifying the trust of those who have given us authority, many in this room are engaged in destruction, intense criticism. Sad paradox, our ancestors had the same chance a hundred years ago. The ability to create and maintain an independent Ukraine in 1917 was more real than ever. But because of internal strife, politics, and disunity, external forces have easily driven Ukraine into the Bolshevik yoke. For a century our nation has postponed its birth on the political map of the world, at a time when nations have built their countries around them. So far, the 1917 ghost is wandering around again, and again the same enemy, only under other flags, is waiting for us to destroy our nation from the inside to take back what the Ukrainian people have been fighting for centuries. As a hundred years ago, the Arsenal uprising in Kiev took away the power and time of Ukrainian fighters for independence and eventually led to the establishment of Bolshevik power, and now the enemy is just waiting for rebellion in the middle of the state. Now is not the time to rebel, find a relationship, price, and political ratings. Remember, history repeats itself twice: once in the form of tragedy, twice in the form of a farce. The country can change only if one hundred percent of the people in the country are teaching their work, thinking about their contribution to the country’s victory and preservation. Colleagues, I want each and every one of us to understand the responsibility to the Ukrainian people, who are responsible for each and every one of us. If we can't stand this state now, we won't have a third chance, and our children, who will live in a enslaved or divided Ukraine, won't forgive us. So, colleagues, let's not repeat the mistakes of history. It's time to put the fights aside and fight, get a real job on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u9	Please. Thank you. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, from Rebirth Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Of course, the problem of energy security is today the number one issue in the state. And that's why I think there's a government and a parliament that should work together. And the position of our group: here we have to clearly separate the economic component from the political one. And we have to do everything, realizing that these are different things, in order to ensure stability, an energy balance in our state. Today, an extremely important problem that concerns people is the cost of utilities. In 2016, population subsidies reached 25 percent more than in 2015. Debts for public utilities in front of the state have been catalysed. So on January 1, 2017, this debt amounted to 23.4 billion dollars, just to pay people nothing. And at the same time, the government debt to the utilities that these services provide is 22.6 billion dollars, i.e. total 46 billion dollars. We receive a lot of complaints from pensioners mainly from rural areas who are officially renting their land, or pie. They can't get a subsidy because they count it as income and they can't count on the benefits. Therefore, social standards must be reviewed and the State budget must include subsidies for these things for local communities in 2017 in order to cover these debts. An extremely important question today is health care, so we would like to be heard in Parliament by Mrs. Suprun's Acting Minister of Health on the subject of medical reform in the area of the establishment of hospital districts. Ours consists of the MPs' team of Rebirths, exclusively majors. We're getting a huge number of calls from the population. They just don't understand this reform. They are concerned about the question: What about the primary chain, how will rural people be provided with services, how will family doctors work, how will they be provided with transportation? And given the quality of the roads, we have doubts that this reform will work effectively. So there are many questions that we would like to ask them in the near future as to why the minister of health is responsible. Well, a few words about agrarians, because this year there's no special tax regime for agrarians, instead of the government's proposed subsidies so far, because there's no subcontracting. That's why our Rebirth MP is officially addressing Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman with the question of taking this issue, settling it and taking it to personal control, because it creates great confidence in both the government and the parliament. It must be resolved immediately, for the matter has ended in rage, and the matter has not been resolved by this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u11	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Lajsko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u12	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, I would like to address the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine on your behalf. We've been hearing for a long time about a new memorandum with the International Monetary Fund. In particular, the Minister of Social Policy, Mr. Reva, who is present here in Parliament, has reported that one of the points in this memorandum foresees a three-year freeze on salaries and pensions, and that it seems to be an agreed position. I have a question for the President, for the Prime Minister, for the Minister of Social Policy. For example, half a million Ukrainians who receive a pension of 949 dollars a month, how can they live on that pension for the next 3 years if you freeze those pensions? How can Ukrainians, who are already getting a minimum wage of 3,200 thanks to us, but we think it's completely inadequate at current wages, how can we not raise these salaries and pensions for three years? So once again, on behalf of the Ukrainians, I demand from the Radical Party that the President publish a memorandum prepared for signature by the government. We have a right to know that in exchange for a billion dollars, a loan offered by the Ukrainian authorities. The sale of land, the increase in retirement age, the freezing of pensions, and wages have been reported. We don't see the need for such a memorandum, because when you cover up customs smuggling, you're going to get $3-4 billion to the state budget without any credit. When you don't cancel our moratorium on exports from Ukraine to roughwood, that's an additional billion dollars per year coming to the local and state budgets. When you, the authorities, give up the idea of selling agricultural land, it is now a record crop like last year, 66 million tons, and without having to sell land. That's why I'm asking you to publish a memo. We live in the parliamentary-presidential republic, and the President, the government has no right to hide secret documents from the Ukrainians. Last year, we raised our wages, the minimum wage. Our faction voted for it. The figures on the Pension Fund’s budget show that this was the right decision. And those who didn't vote to raise the minimum wage are just enemies of Ukrainians who want Ukrainians to always be poor. But we're demanding the government's next decision: to raise pensions, to increase pensions radically. Because those copier pensions that aren't up-to-date, which aren't based on the inflation index, Ukrainian pensioners just can't live on them. And finally, the last one. Where are the promised free medications for people suffering from asthma, cardiovascular disease, diabetes? We demand that the government meet our demand and give the Ukrainians free medicine so that people do not die like flies.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u13	Thank you. From the "Fatherland" faction, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u14	Yes, today, yesterday, tomorrow is the days of the memory of the Hero of the Celestial 100, who laid down their lives for the right of Ukrainians to build their state, to build as the Ukrainian nation wishes. Honor and glory to all who stood on the Maidan, for they opened this way together with the hundreds of heaven, who laid down their lives. But what is behind these words about statehood, patriotism, the right to build its own state, which is proclaimed by the authorities in this rostrum, and what has been done after the Dignity Revolution? The people went to Midan against the clans, against the oligarchy. But today, the clans and the oligarchy continue to rule both at a higher level of government and in this Parliament, everything is done behind the scenes. And I'm going to ask, would you support Sky 100's Heroes today what is being done by the higher leadership of the state, and what did the Stockholm Institute say for days is that, according to this international institution, Ukraine exported military assignment to Russia for $169 million a year, 72 percent more than Yanukovich did in peacetime? Who's going to answer, tell me? And did our patriots put their lives on hold for this? And who's going to answer for buying 12 million tons of coal per billion dollars from the invaders during the war? And this is shared between the higher leadership of the state, the clans, the corrupters and the invaders. Is that why our boys died? Yes, no! For having a state and having justice. Or is it that in the last year, for four points, we, as Ukraine, are free to fall four points in the economic freedom rating? And so 260 small businesses would be destroyed two months after the budget was adopted? Tell me about it? Or is it that every Ukrainian family today thinks about leaving Ukraine because they can no longer live or hold a family or raise children? And it is you, the majority of you in this Supreme Council, along with the President, the government, with all the prime ministers who came after the revolution that led the country to that state. Either the people of Ukraine stop this mafia that uses the words of the revolution, or Ukraine just won't! Because you, those who speak beautiful phrases today, eliminate it. So fight! I'm on my way.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u15	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u16	I'm talking to people right now: fight, don't give up! The Mafia rules and rules Ukraine. But it is possible to overcome it, only to have the will and service of Ukraine as well as perseverance in achieving the goal.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u17	From the Self-Help faction of Berezuk Oleg Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u18	Our heroic ancestors, the noble Mr. Head, respected colleagues, stood as a cry against a terrible enemy. But our heroic ancestors and their leaders did not steal or trade weapons and energies with the enemy. And that's why we have to be followers, but successful. And in order to be successful, we demand that the Ukrainian authorities stop the blood trade immediately, because that is the destruction of Ukrainian independence, sovereignty and state as an institution, and then the colonization of Ukraine. The resistance to colonization -- today's main slogan is not just in society, because society and people on the tracks today are making us do it. Everyone in this room wants to unite. Let us unite and vote on the Law on occupied territories. What could be better? Workgroup created. Today, tomorrow, Wednesday, we will work on the committee, we will deliver on Thursday, we will vote and we will stop this blood trade. Moreover, we are returning Ukraine to the constitutional field. Ukraine will understand as a state that it is at war and will act like this, not trade trots, saltpeters, chemicals, coals, roundings with the enemy, filling it with energy. This power of the Ukrainian state will be then. In addition, let us unite around the fight against political corruption and adopt the law that you all promised, we all promised the Supreme Council Elections Act on a proportionate basis with open lists. Is it hard to unite? You don't have to talk about anything, just press a button for quality law. Today, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Prime Minister, has shown that he is beginning to hear and follow people. The Prime Minister proposed and held several negotiations with the blood-trafficking headquarters. This is the way! This is the beginning of the road to understanding and serving people in this country to stand and resist colonialism. This is our most important job today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u19	Please, the leader of the Opposition Block factions, Yuri Boyko. Your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u20	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear National Deputies! A critical political economic situation took place in Ukraine. The government has done this on a planned basis for several years in a row, one step at a time, destroying the economy and making people's lives worse. Today’s authorities do not accept criticism, do not hear their own citizens, ignore opposition. Two years have passed since the signing of the Minsk Treaties, which prevented the mass destruction of our citizens. But in the time of the Supreme Council, there was no way to find a peaceful solution to the situation in Donbas. Nothing prevented Parliament from voting on the political part of the Minsk Treaties with preconditions for their entry into force. This would only strengthen Ukraine’s negotiating positions. Instead, there is a trade blockade in the East that repels our fellow citizens and threatens the country’s life - support system. A major economic achievement is the acquisition of IMF loans. After 1 billion, the conditions under which it is proposed that pensioners be finally destroyed and that all be driven to poverty. The government walks with its hand out and asks for loans while the country loses tens of billions of dollars because of the decline in production, the loss of traditional markets and, as a result, the decline in currency revenues and the fall in currency. We're asking the authorities to report on the conditions for receiving the IMF tranche. We see that the government cannot get out of this critical, stalemate situation. Let us be honest before ourselves and our constituents to the end. The people had lost confidence in the authority they had chosen. Every MP who goes out on this stand and gives a speech should realize that of the 100 people who hear him, without personal attachment to him, only four people trust that House, 96 do not trust him or regard him as a trusted institution. In this situation, we think it is only the right decision of Parliament to correct its mistakes. Accept budget changes, reduce tariffs and increase minimum pensions. And then the government resigns and the parliament dissolves and goes to a new election so that the people can choose the parliament they trust. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, we have not been able to sign up for the will of the people. And that's why now is the word of the representative of their group Sergio Shahov. Please, Mr. Sergei. Colleagues, I'm asking you to meet me in the session room, this is the last speech by MPs and factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! Today we're talking about an energy blockade. But this blockade for the whole country is a huge problem. For Donbas, it's a disaster. Today, not only do people freeze to death in their apartments because they are not given light today, but this light is in the hands of the oligarchs today. Because of the political crisis that has taken place today between us here in Parliament, we need to unite and resolve the issue of bringing back to the state all the energies used today by those oligarchs who today say from this rostrum that people are suffering and so forth. In Luhansk, tariffs are twice as high today as in Kiev. Today the water costs 24 bracelets in Severodonetsk, 22 bracelets today in Lysichansk when it costs 14 dollars in Kiev. Please tell me, how can people survive a thousand dollars of retirement? We're saying for the pension raise, yes, it has to be raised to a minimum wage of 3,200, but these are just words, we have to make decisions today. A huge problem in Luhansk, 9,000 acres [9,000 ha] today, the forest is dry, and people are freezing in houses today, wrapping their feet with a towel and heating their own water heater. Note that today forest farming is completely at stake. We ride at night, coming back from the county, driving completely through the woods, and these are the stones that carry the living forest, oaks, and pines. And today, 9,000, once again, to be exact, 9,000 hectares stand a dry burning forest after the war, notice that. Today, the difficult problem in Severerodonetsk, the war is not over, and we can practically lose it through political repression, the city is haunted by collorants, the city is captured by a gang that steals tens of millions of dollars through Zaporozhye and Harkov's conversion centers. And we've been sitting for three months and we can't take the draft decision that Vitaly Kurilo and Sergey Shahov filed with BPP. We're pulling this question today, today it's in the order of the day. I call on every faction, I call on every parliamentarian today to unite, non-fractional and vote on this decision, to reinstate power in the city of Severodonetsk, the deputies who are now stealing this city to the full. I ask you to join us and help Lugansk and Doñecina today to free themselves from the co-collombers who have taken power today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time allocated for the presentations is over and I ask everyone to come into the hall, we are moving to the agenda and please invite all the deputies to the hall. The first question is the order of the day session. And, colleagues, I want to remind you that without considering this issue, we cannot fully organize our work. I want to report that yesterday the Conciliation Board of Deputies and Groups discussed a draft agenda for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call. In accordance with the part of the first article 21 and part of the first article 22 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I am submitting to the draft agenda of the sixth session of the Supreme Council for approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, in order for us to be able to go to a consolidated vote, I'll give you one minute at a time from the factions that have proposals and additions to the order of the day session. So, colleagues, Peter Dusty Block, is there a need? None. People's Front? There's no need. Is there a need? Please, Oksana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u24	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, I did not find in the draft agenda of the 5711 bill. I'm asking him to join the agenda just in case, but I didn't find him on the list. Thank you. 5711.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u25	Thank you. Will you be Krulko or Yvchenko? Yvchenko, then call Krulk's offer too.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u26	Andry Volodymyrovich, first of all, I want to thank you for the nine laws that we agreed with you on the Conciliation Council are included. But there are three more, we've talked to you, and the first one needs to be removed and placed in order for the daily session of Law 5223 on the non-admission of the shadowy alienation of the land of agriculture. One. And two. The following laws: 6091 on amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code for the support of small and medium-sized farmers. And 6073-1, the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Electricity and Utilities (National Deputies of Rybchin and Vojcitsky). We ask these bills to be put in place, and then we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u27	Thank you. You've noticed, there are nine bills, and there's a bill that's been deleted. Now you're sounding and they're going to be included in the body in general. A bird, please, Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u28	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, in the order of the day that we are offered for approval, I have seen my bill number 2447, which is not relevant to this day. Instead, I submitted another bill on the same subject number 3692, which was recommended by the Scientific and Educational Committee to be adopted in the first reading. So I ask that you replace Bill 2447 with Bill 3692. And separately, I want to point out that I went to the head of this committee with a question, and how did it happen? And the head informed me that the head of the secretariat was constantly engaged in separate manipulations on this committee. So I'm asking you to pay attention and conduct an official investigation into what's going on in the committee's secretariat. And I want to say that for two years now, I have been trying to raise the issue of disciplining the individual secretarial staff of this committee of education and science. Please pay attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u29	Thank you. I asked you to give me a call. Okay. One minute, Semimenach, and we'll go to the vote. My colleagues, I'm sorry, there'll be a vote in a minute. I very much ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Ivan Krulko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u30	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, I also ask for Bill No. 6048 to be added to the list, this is about amending certain laws (with regard to the implementation of Council of Europe standards for youth centres and the decentralization of youth work). Please turn it on. This is a bill prepared by the Youth and Sports Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u31	Thank you. And the closing statement is Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u32	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, we call your attention to the principle of equal consideration of the bill not only from the coalition but also from the representatives of the opposition. Actually, it was. Unfortunately, the opposite is happening, and we are blocked in many of our legislative initiatives. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u33	Please, 30 seconds. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u34	We therefore urge not only to include in the order of the session, but, in the next plenary week, to consider the bill 3593d on temporarily occupied territories, which, inter alia, blocks trade in occupied areas. Bill 5487 on the significant limitation of parliamentary immunity. Bill 1068/2 on the election of national deputies on a proportional basis on open party lists. Update the composition of the Central Electoral Commission. For more than two years, we've been running out of CBC. Next. Release Mr. Nasirov and Mr. Bilan with the appropriate draft decree. Similarly, a corresponding draft decree to deal with the issue and release the minister from temporarily occupied issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u35	Thank you. We're now hearing proposals for the agenda, I want to remind you. Colleagues, Barna, one more minute, and we'll go to the vote. Please come to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u36	Dear Head, the previous plenary week was agreed on by the Council on the introduction of Bill 4682 on the organization by local authorities of self - government and executive authorities of compulsory feeding for all students in public educational institutions. For reasons of political relevance, the bill was not considered, since there was a lack of time to consider other more important bills. Therefore, I ask that this day’s agenda include bill 4682 on the organization of compulsory feeding for all students in public schools in order to ensure that the bill is adopted with a second reading before the beginning of the new school year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u37	Thank you. So, colleagues, we've heard all the suggestions. And I'm going to put it to a vote with all the suggestions that have been made. By the way, I want to remind you that 2 000 327 bills are in order daily, so we can understand how many bills we have for this session. And that's why, colleagues. Colleagues, please, literally 30 seconds, head of Igor Green's Peter Dust Block. And if you'd like to take your seats, we'll prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u38	Mr. Head, there's been a technical error, there's Law 5610 in the agenda for this week, and he's out of session. So 5610 fell off that little menu this week. Please include a large list entirely for the session and also Law 5610.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u39	Thank you, Mr. Igor. Thank you. Only this did not happen to be a mistake in fact, and when it was included in the agenda and was not included, it cannot stand but at the suggestion. You've played it, and that's enough to include it. So, colleagues, let's go to the vote. I'm asking you to get ready. I emphasize, I put to the vote the order of the day of the entire session. I think we can do without the weekly agenda, and I'll put it to the vote for the entire session. Therefore, it is important that everyone prepare for the vote. With all the paperwork that was bugged in the hall. I won't repeat every bill, there were many. For the transcript: with all the rights that have been sounded: both Mr. Igor, and Barney, and Victoria the Birds, all those who have been called. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. Please, colleagues. And I'm putting to the vote the Bill (Registration No. 6104) on the agenda of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call, taking into account all the additions and proposals made in the discussion, for adoption by the whole, by the colleague. Please be supportive. Please vote. Colleagues, look and talk. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Can we vote? Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. We're voting 6,104 in general. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. All the proposals are taken into account, colleagues, all of which have been wiretaps and presented, accounted for. [[10:46:50]] For 218. Colleagues, please come to the hall. Please, the Radical Party hasn't spoken yet. One minute, Radical Party. And please invite the deputies to the hall, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u40	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm addressing all my colleagues in Parliament, including our self-help brothers. Maybe you didn't hear that once a colleague of the B.P.P. faction suggested that a daily bill on the prosecution should be included in the agenda, which continues with the "dragon's" powers, which are Stalin's for the prosecutor's office. That's why the Radical Party faction doesn't vote for it. I propose, Mr. Head, to vote in favour of the agenda, except for the exclusion of Bill 5610, which brings back to the prosecutor's office the "dragon's" powers from which we have refused long ago. Don't push it. Don't push it like Ivan Stepanovich Plush said.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u41	Oleg Valeriyovich, I want to explain one important thing to you. The whole logic of making the agenda for the day session is that we actually include all the bills, Oleg Valeriyovich, basically all the bills. I want to emphasize that 2,000, 327 are in the order of the day session. This is the only way to build consensus and involve consensus. I want to emphasize that if we go another way and we delete, we will never find consensus and just block the work of the Supreme Council. All the bills that have been proposed are included, and there is logic and there is justice to support them all. One minute, Oleg Beresuk and we're voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u42	Mr. Head, we are prepared to vote on the condition that there is the Act on Occupied Territories, intactness, subtraction of integrity and an anti-corruption court. Three bills please be included in this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u43	Thank you. Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u44	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, there is not yet Bill 6016 on Auditorship on this list. The bill is government, we must consider it by July 1st of this year. So please include the agenda of the day session.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u45	Colleagues, let me read it. The numbers. So I'm going to read the numbers: 6011, 5487 and. It's all right, isn't it? And please, Vinick and Burbak, in a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u46	Good morning, dear colleagues. Actually, I'd like to go to the Radical Party faction. It is desirable not to use such epithets – dragons, yes, bills that are prepared in conjunction with the Attorney General's Office, which are actually called upon to make an effective mechanism for the inadvertent condemnation of Yanukovic's criminal power, which is now being hidden in the Russian Federation. Indeed, many of the penal code’s provisions are left behind today, allowing lawyers of Yanukovich to avoid punishment. We all take three years to make it happen. I would like to remind everyone that many calls have been made in this room: let us collect the arrested costs of Janukovich. So we're not going to use and invent, and we're going to create a mechanism of so-called special confiscation. That was the main argument, but today it's not actually working. So let's get to the bottom of this. 5610, for the Attorney General's Office, we're going to give this mechanism, and we're going to demand that the money be returned, and Janukovic is finally being punished for the third anniversary of Maidan. Let's vote together! Dear Radical Party, if you don't vote, there will be votes in this room, but we must be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u47	Mr. John, I just want to point out that we are now hearing proposals, not entering debates under a separate law. Now I have to give a reply, and we're going to enter the political process instead of going out. No, colleagues. This is Burbak's last speech, and we're moving on to the vote. Yeah, I'll give you a line, one minute, then Burbak, one minute, let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u48	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is hiding under the Prosecutor's Act, which lasts for the tenth time in this room. Parliament rejected it, but the Compradorian majority tried to stretch it. First. Over a period of one and a half years, the term of imprisonment of suspects without a court sentence increases. The powers of lawyers are limited. The power of prosecutors is increasing. The Public Prosecutor's Office is returning and the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office continue to be authorized to investigate the establishment of the State Bureau of Investigation. This means that the State Bureau of Investigation will never be created. I want to remind you how Lucenko was approved as Attorney General in this room. The president's best man was voted 20 times to change the law. Now under the godfather of the President. We have everything under the leadership of the President and under the President himself in this House, nothing is done for the people here, because there is one person -- the President and his godparents are corrupt. And that's why Parliament bends to its knees to vote 20 times. I call on Self-Help not to play the President's best men on its own.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u49	Please, Maxim Burbak. And I would like to point out that all the bills proposed by the MPs include the agenda of the day session. Please. No, Maxim Burbak and we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u50	Andriy Volodymyrovich, please add to the draft decree also Bill No.5520, which is essential for the continuation of the decentralization reform, as well as the MP Bill 5066-d. Thank you. And I'm talking to everyone, let's vote and get this job started.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u51	The faction was mentioned. 30 seconds, please, Oleg. And, colleagues, if you'd like to prepare for the vote, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u52	The draft Law on Public Prosecutions, which is said to be a criminal encavedist project. And he should certainly not be considered in this room at all. And if, God forbid, he falls, the one who votes for him is voting for the NCCD in 1937.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u53	Colleagues, can we get to the vote? Any suggestions? I'm asking for the suggestions that have been made, the transcripts, everyone who's been bugged. With all those proposals, I'm putting it to a vote. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm putting to the vote the 6104 Bill of Order on the order of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth call, taking into account all the additions and suggestions that were made under the transcript during the discussion. Please take your seats, please vote and please support me, colleagues. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote on all the proposals that have been made. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[10:55:20]] For 232 Decision taken. So, colleagues, we've confirmed the order of the day session. And this time it's a day's work for the entire session. And let's move on to the first draft of the law. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection (5697). And I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Please support the reduced procedure. [[10:56:07]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Minister of Social Policy, Rev. Andrija Alexiyovich. Please, Andrew Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u54	Your Honor is presiding! Dear National Deputies! You have before you Bill No. 5697 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection. Three years have passed since the dramatic events that forever changed the history of Ukraine. The spirit of those Ukrainians who went out to Midan helped change the course of Ukrainian history. Janukovich’s regime ceased to exist, but all of this was at a very expensive price. More than 100 of our fellow countrymen have filled the ranks of the Heroes of Heavenly Hundreds forever. A large number of people were injured, injured, and disabled. There have also been many injuries, and people have received bullet wounds from those people, law enforcement officials, internal affairs officials who should protect these people and protect their rights and freedoms. Three years have passed, and unfortunately, I want to say that these people's problems remain. You remember that for almost a year, the question of determining the status of family members who had died in Maidan was considered. It was only after the President’s decree to assign the name Hero of Ukraine to the families of the deceased that the benefits provided for in Ukraine’s legislation were extended to individuals, family members, who have special merit before their homeland. In the past, the Supreme Council has addressed the social protection of people with disabilities as a result of the events in Maidan, and they have been granted the status of war invalids. But the people who were injured in Maidan were given heavy, medium, and light body weights.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u55	Please. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u56	The status and no social protection were obtained, except for the payment of financial compensation. In meeting with these people, the Prime Minister has given the mandate to develop as soon as possible a procedure for including these people in existing social protection programmes. There is no other way than by spreading the Law on the Status of War Veterans to date. Otherwise, we'll have three more years to argue about their status.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u57	Thank you. A representative of the Committee on Veterans, Fighters, and ATO participants, Burbak Maxim, is invited to the report. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u58	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on Veterans, Actors of War, ATOs and People with Disabilities discussed Government Bill 5697 at its meeting on February 8, 2017. As has already been said, the bill proposes amendments to the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees of their social protection, according to which, first, the right to establish the status of a participant in hostilities, a participant in the Dignity Revolution, which is included in the relevant list of persons who have been injured, severe, moderate, but not causing disability. Second, the right to establish the status of a war invalid to civilians who have become disabled as a result of injuries or other health injuries derived from explosives, ammunition, military weapons in the ATO area during its conduct. The text of the Law on the Status of War Veterans proposes that the term "Great Country War" be replaced by the term "World War II." The main scientific and expert management in general, supporting the intention of the bill to strengthen the social protection of the persons concerned, recommends that the draft be returned to the draft for further work to take into account all comments and suggestions. The committee is convinced that all those who suffered during the Dignity Revolution, when they were in hell on those terrible days when the Yanukovich authorities ordered the shooting of peaceful people who had gone out to defend their right to freedom, the future of their children and their state, had an undeniable right to participate in hostilities. At the same time, in order to ensure the full implementation of the bill and to prevent differences in the interpretation of the bill's provisions in their implementation, the committee believes that the bill needs to be redrafted for the second reading. In view of the above, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt Bill 5697 as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you. And, Mr. Golovo, I would like to ask the following bill to consider number 5663, which will allow the disabled of the ATO and the families of the dead participants in the ATO to purchase apartments, this is a technical bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u59	Thank you. This is really a technical bill, and we can look at it more quickly. But now we're talking about 5697. And, dear colleagues, I ask you to record: two in favour, two in favour. Semenha, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u60	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, the Self-Help faction will support this legislative initiative, but only in the first reading, because it has a number of important observations. First. Such status should be considered and given to those who have known their lives, their health in the struggle for Ukraine’s independence, their rights and freedoms. Which, on the one hand, would protect their social status, on the other hand, did not invalidate the highest status as a participant in combat. The other one. We all have to be sure that it is the people who have given their health in the war for Ukraine's independence who will never fall under this law, the people who participated in the anti-Majdan, the people who rocked the situation in the east and the south of our country in 2013-2015. Third. We have to be sure that the procedure proposed by this bill should be clear and transparent, without any corruption or additional bureaucratic obstacles. But, you see, granting status to such people and paying compensation in a state where three years later, those bloody events did not bring back justice, I'm more like a ransom. People are waiting for justice to return to this state. Three years after those terrible blood events in Eromaydan, no one is held accountable. Moreover, no one is called to account for the economic crimes of the previous authorities. And this is actually the verdict of the entire judicial system of Ukraine, this is the verdict of the entire legal system, and people justly say that there is no difference between this and the previous authority. Because all these votes are shared by the opposition bloc with the general prosecutor's coalition, for the heads of the Ukrainian Security Service, and they prove that this authority does not want to bring justice back to our country. Therefore, we demand that those who are involved and who have aroused hostility in our country be condemned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u61	Lucenko Igor, please, from Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! The Fatherland faction will certainly and absolutely vote in favour of the bill in the first reading. Of course, we support the granting of martial law to those who have suffered in Maidan. And it's not just the mechanics of jurisprudence, it's the essence and our position. Why? Because, of course, the violence in Maidan was organized with the support of Russia, sponsored by Russia, Russia was providing combat equipment so that Berkut and the internal forces could destroy the rangers. What's more, I'll tell you that there is a strong conviction among many of the Attorney General's investigators about the very important role of certain people in supporting Russia, the very organization of violence against the terrain. Regrettably, the investigation of these facts has now been blocked. And we certainly support the destruction of the Soviet, Soviet discourse that is present in our legislation, the so-called Great Homeland War, the war with imperialist Japan and so on. We are certainly in favour of leading to the world practice of defining these events, namely World War II. Instead, stressing that we are absolutely behind this bill, we want to state that the policy of remembering Maidan in general is absent from our country, and the policy of honoring the Heroes of Maidan also contains colossal flaws. For example, this bill is quite pianistic, unfortunately, because there are no budget changes, no procedures for receiving these benefits, no evidence that you were injured in Maidan. It's all very difficult, and these are the challenges that we're going to have to deal with right now. Therefore, by clearly supporting this bill, we call not for pianist action on Maidan, but for the real implementation of the principles and programmes of Maidan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u63	Thank you. Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich, "will of the people," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u64	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. The People's Will Group will support this bill and only in the first reading. Because a lot of amendments are needed to actually make this bill. There was less corruption. But I'm surprised, on the other hand, that now we're going through some memorable steps on our third anniversary, and I'm surprised what's been going on at these memorable events, which, as the so-called so-called four rich people, is one rich man who's struggling with so-called beauty salons, another rich man who's struggling with Vilkula's machines, the third rich man who's thrown his boys into the same place and fled from the front, well, and the fourth rich man who's unattracted, who's been on Maidan, didn't even remember our boys who died on Maidan, about the victims. We had a shabbash in the evening, just a shabbash. You want to be a pianist, you have to be a pianist in other days, and now you have to do something to remember. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u65	Korchinska Oksana Anatolovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u66	Praise Jesus Christ! Oksana Korchinska, Ukrainian national deputy. This bill can only be supported in the first reading. I firmly agree with my colleague Simeonah, all the comments he made. It is important to understand that this bill and the first reading, even a revised second reading, will not produce rehabilitation facilities in our country. At this point in 2.5 years, we have no system of rehabilitation for the injured, and those who have this problem still do not believe in all medical facilities, because there is no rehabilitation for the injured, there is no support for them. We're stealing money for psychological rehabilitation. And I hope this minister hears. When our sanatoriums have one million dollars each, 13 million receive every sanatorium for psychological rehabilitation, and in most cases psychological rehabilitation in these sanitariums is done by alcohol and by writing down money for pseudopsychologists when volunteers are unable to work in these sanitariums. We've got pseudo-rehabilitation. If we don't fix the system with you now, really, the rehabilitation of the wounded, including our heroes from Maidan, whatever the law doesn't work, it's just written words. And we need a clear mechanism to save people and help them. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u67	Thank you. Colleagues, closing statement. From the People's Front, Michael Bondar. Turn on the microphone, please. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u68	Thank you. Mikhailo Bondar, 119th constituency, centurion on Maidan the tenth hundredth. I remember three years ago, on March 14th, even though the boys were injured in Midan, without thinking for a minute, they gathered themselves and went to the first volunteer battalions. Later there are others who were created. And who's already got their U.B.D. postmortem, who, after winning, got there on the front. A big request. The People's Front will definitely vote in the first reading. But in order for this list, indeed, to not be filled by pseudo-mads, to be filled as a Chernobyl list, this should be clearly regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u69	Thank you, dear fellows. Please come into the hall. And only, if you'll excuse me, will I take one minute. Colleagues, in the discussion, unfortunately, even such a matter as the veneration of the Heroes of the Celestial 100, we cannot abandon politics. And it's very sad. And when I hear words in the hall saying that there's no difference between this and the previous power, it's very sad for me, too. You know, on February 20th, it wasn't just the shooting on Maidan. On February 20, the occupation of the Ukrainian Crimea began. By the way, on February 23rd, we'll be in Parliament doing Crimea Day. And when I asked one of the military what the biggest problem was, he told me the important thing: that between many Ukrainian military forces and the Russian army, there's not even a "outside" marker because they were raised to be NATO enemies and Russia to be originally friends. I'm afraid we don't have to lose a stranger's marker. And when someone thinks that our Parliament is identical to that Parliament that adopted the Harkowe Accords and the laws of January 16th, I'm very sad about those people who have a full-blown marker. When someone thinks that there is no difference between the President who betrayed Ukraine and has sold it and has already taken the money, and the Commander-in-Chief who orders the defence of Ukraine and who organizes the Ukrainian army and protects the Ukrainian state, he has a completely broken marker or he has other motives, not Ukrainian patriotic motives. I would like us not to go into politics and change our markers as we discuss these days, but to feel like the Ukrainian Parliament of a warring country. And, dear fellows, I ask you to proceed to the vote now, to take up your jobs. And I want to point out that the committee is only proposing to accept as a basis, just as the majority of the factions have suggested, and so I'm going to put it to a vote. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection (room 5697) on the basis of a committee proposal, a colleague, a foundation. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, please take up jobs. Vote, please. [[11:13:45]] For 261 Decision taken. The law was adopted in the first reading. To the second, we will work on it so that there will be no discussion in the hall. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we have a draft bill that deals with the important issue of demarcating the earth as a memorial to the memory of the Heroes of Heaven. I didn't put it in the order of the day session yesterday, since there was no committee. But this bill needs an immediate solution, as it helps to regulate the land-building process of decommissioning on the street of the Institute for Honoring the Heroes of Heaven to the Hundreds. He's hand-delivered, he's on his hands, but without a committee, I couldn't put him in the agenda. Once again, the committee met in the morning, and we have a committee decision on our hands. The bill is distributed to all the deputies, and it's in all the deputies in the room. This is 6068, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation to ensure that participants in the Dignity Revolution are honored and remembered by the Heroes of Heaven. Also, the Committee on Veterans and Participants of the ATO requested that the 5663 technical project be brought to the table. And I would like to ask you to put this bill into the agenda right now for decision-making, to consider and to make decisions, colleagues. Is there no objection to the logic I have explained? Colleagues, may we vote? So I'll explain again. A bill that allows the land to be allocated to honor the memory of the Heroes of Heaven in the Institute. I didn't include him in the day-to-day, since he didn't have a committee on him. This morning a committee took place, which gives me the right to put it in order for me to make a decision. And I'm asking you to support the hall. Got the logic, got the concept? So I'm putting a motion for a vote to put into the agenda for a decision on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Urban Activity on measures to ensure respect for the feat of the members of the Dignity Revolution and the perpetuation of the memory of the Heroes of Heaven. Include in the agenda the decision-making process. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. It's an important bill so we can. The creation of a memorial for the Heroes of the Celestial 100. [[11:17:01]] For 260 Decision taken. Colleagues, I think we'll take a quick look at it. And just before the Committee on Veterans and the ATO asked for the 5663 State Budget Bill for the 17th year on the refinement of subsidies, it's actually a subsidy for ATO participants, it's also technical, it's simple for us to take it up now. 5663, he's standing a little bit further, the committee's asking us to look at him now. Let's support the committee. It will also take very little time for this bill, it's technical, but it can unlock funds for ATO participants. So I'm betting on the vote so we can put it to 5663 right now. Please vote, please support the committee's profile. Please vote, colleagues, a technical law that unlocks funds for ATO participants. 5663 move to review now. Please vote, please support. [[11:18:14]] For 255 Decision taken. So, colleagues, we're going to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulations to ensure that the success of the members of the Dignity Revolution and the remembrance of the Heroes of the Celestial Sotny (6068) is respected. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. It's a simple law that's important, but it's not complicated. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please, colleagues. [[11:18:56]] For-188. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I would like to allow myself to begin my speech, not in my own words, not in words of politics, but with our colleague, historian Vladimir Váterović. It's just that his words, they completely coincide with my feelings in these last days, with the feelings of the other drafters of the bill that I'm introducing. "Forgotten. For the Heroes of the Sky, there is no room in physical space — no monuments or museums. Only modest portraits at the scene of their deaths remind us of what happened here three years ago. Thanks to protestors who want to show their activity right on the day of the death of the heroes, there is no room for them in the information space. He was filled with quarrels, fights, and opposition between those who seemed to be on the Maidan together. To say that this kind of "fight" is an expression of respect for the fallen heroes is stupidity and pride. There is a time when only the Celestial Hundred should be in Midan. February 18th to 20th, these are the days." I also feel that way, and I very much hope that what happened in the last few days was unspecialized. I'm sure I'd like to believe that. And our task today is to do everything we can to honor the memory of the Heroes of the Celestial 100 because, even now, 2,000 artifacts remain almost under the open sky. They are in an unapproachable room and cannot be exposed to people coming, getting acquainted with the history and artefacts of those important and tragic days. And therefore, in the execution of the President's decree, in order to honor the feat of the participants in the Dignity Revolution and to perpetuate the memory of the Heroes of the Heavenly 100th Cabinet, the National Memorial Complex of the Heroes of the Celestial 100th is the Museum of the Divinity Revolution. But as long as it exists, it's actually only on paper. And the creation of the mentioned memorial complex will allow for the preservation, presentation and dissemination of the history of the struggle of the Ukrainians. With a purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u71	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u72	With a view to providing land in the central part of Kiev for the use of the National Memorial Complex, it is proposed to make appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Law on Urban Planning. And that's why I'm asking you to support this bill on the basis and in general. And to thank Kyivrady, who has also made this decision, and now, for three months, there is going to be a project for the transfer of this land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u73	Thank you. The co - report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban Affairs, and the Andriewsky Dmitry Josephovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Andrija Volodymyrovich! At its meeting on 21 February 2017, the Committee considered a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Urban Settlements on measures to ensure that participants in the Dignity Revolution and to perpetuate the memory of the Heroes of Heaven. This bill is very simple. It allows changes in legislation to give additional opportunities and authorization to the Kiev City Council to accelerate the allocation of this area, and this acceleration will significantly reduce the construction deadlines for the complex. The committee is proposing a draft Act amending the Law on Settlement of Urban Activities in Ukraine on measures to ensure that participants in the Dignity Revolution are respected and that the memory of the Heroes of the Celestial 100 will be forever remembered as a basis and as a law in general. Chapter V of the Law on the Settlement of Urban Action, of the Law on the Settlement of Urban Action, adds to section 6.2: “To establish that the operation of part of the third article 24 of this law does not extend to the provision of land at the Aleia Heros of Heavenly Sotney, Institute, 3, in the Pecher district of Kiev from the land of communal property in the use of the National Memorial Complex of the Heroes of Heaven, the hundreds of the Museum of Dignity for the Construction, Exploitation and Service of the Memorial Museum. The building of the museum complex should be carried out according to a project developed by an open-ended complex for a better project of this memorial-museum complex, carried out in the established order by the Cabinet of Ministers, and approved with the proposal of public discussion of complex proposals." Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record two for two against, please. Dove Vladislav Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u76	Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Please give the floor to my colleague, Mykalayovna Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, the faction of Peter Prashenko's Block calls for support for this bill. At the legislative level, it is necessary to secure an area in the center of Kiev behind the memorial complex of the Heroes of Heaven. At present, there are purely technical obstacles to land tenure in this place where the Pantheon of the Heroes of Maidan should appear. I think it's a bit of a reminder, but some might recall that a new page in the history of the Ukrainian state opened up for us the Maydan and the Celestial 100, the birth of a free, united and strong Ukrainian society. And so this feat, it has to be immortalized in national history as a reminder of the enormous price of free and strong Ukraine, and no one has to forget that. Thus, there is now a great deal of valuable and memorable materials of the Dignity Revolution that need to be gathered under a single roof, where every Ukrainian or guest of our nation can feel the spirit of Maidan and see all the stages of this historic event. I would also like to support my colleague and say that it is extremely cynical in these tragic, sad days that some protesting Sabbaths look like. And so I wanted to say that the heavenly angels, they don't deserve such events, and we ask that we honor and vote on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u78	Yegor Sobolev, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u79	Self-help will support the need to create such a memorial. We have only a huge request from the Parliamentary Secretariat, along with the Kiev City Council, to deal with the status of this land. As far as we're concerned, this land area is subject to a war in the courts between private companies. So that no one can take advantage of our law to steal this land for himself. Here we go out to the most important point, colleagues, of honoring the memory of the dead Celestial Celestials is first and foremost the embodiment of the ideals that made this Celestial 100 perish. Honesty and not only in deviating the earth will be our best respect. We must make sure that the Memorial is there. But we, as a parliament, have to become such a memorial. This week, we ask you to take a very important step: to destroy a large corruption scheme called "trafficking in occupied areas." Let us prove that we are worthy of this memory.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u80	From Fatherland, Igor Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u81	Dear friends, Fatherland supports this bill. We'll vote yes. Sadly, though, we need to note that this bill testifies to the complete lack of memory policy regarding Maidan in our country. Three years ago, Janukovic fled, three years ago counting off our responsibilities with regard to the Celestial One. What was done by the Kiev authorities in this regard? Absolutely nothing. Now we have this bill, the law, we want to create benefits so that the impenetrable Kyiv authorities can allocate land to honor the memory of the Celestial One. In three years, the Kyiv authorities failed to do so. Instead, Firtash, Mikitas, and other outsiders seemed to have no problems with the law. Buildings were built. In violation of the law by the water.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u82	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u83	on destroyed green areas. Nevertheless, the Kyiv authorities cannot do so without the aid. Is this not a disgrace? Unfortunately, there is not enough time to say that there is no Maidan Museum, that there is no architectural concept of sorting Maidan himself. We're actually at the same point that we were three years ago when Maidan just finished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u84	Colleagues, it's melniczuk Sergei, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u85	Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people." In fact, there is a need to make room for the monument, to isolate the earth, but the main thing is not to make use of it again, really, good intentions and someone has not come up with something. In addition, there are ideas after the creation of the Maidan Museum and in the unions to put one floor under this museum. Although some politicians want to do a homeless shelter in the center of the city in a hostel where drugs and anti - health care are now flourishing. Moreover, it is illegal in a nonliving house to make sleeping quarters. So I'm asking the Kyiv authorities to isolate this land and consider creating a museum in the unions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u86	So, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall, in a minute we'll move on to making a decision. Please invite deputies to the hall and the heads of factions. Another minute, Lechchenko, and we're going to the vote. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u87	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. First of all, I would like to point out that this is obviously a necessary bill, and we're working with the Museum of Dignity. In this regard, they tried to help fight the Kyiv city government, which somehow failed to take any effective steps to create an appropriate museum. And this is Mr. Vitali Volodymyrovich Klicka's absolute inactivity, who has failed to adopt a detailed plan of territory in this area, making such an exception today in the Supreme Council law. But I would point out, I'd go to all my colleagues and I'd go to the chairman, and I'd go to the headman, so that there wouldn't be again, as always, good intentions, then a variety of machinations to add such a paragraph to this bill. And by the way, he was agreed on at the task force, I don't understand why he's not here now, again, some kind of machination. Paragraph: A further change of destination and owner, land user, as specified in paragraph 1 of this Part, and transfer of land or premises to a museum complex into a lease or sub-rent is prohibited. The point is, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u88	Please finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u89	The fact is that we often have very thin plots of land. land in the capital, not just in the capital, under the right sort of thing. And then somehow they find themselves in the actual use, not of those given, for example, of museums, but of various parts. So I still insist on this paragraph that this land area be used under the Museum of the Heroes of the Celestial 100, not under another TRC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u90	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, the drafter does not object to this amendment. So we're going to put to the vote this amendment that you've just heard, under the transcript. And I ask you to prepare for the vote, colleagues. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities on the Measures to Respect the Inventory of the Dignity Revolution and the Emancipation of the Celestial 100 (No. 6068), as amended by the transcript of the national deputy Yuri Levchenko, on the basis and in general, of the colleague. Please vote, please support, on the basis. Colleagues, take up jobs, that's really a question you don't think is that important? The ninth. Vote. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. We vote on the basis of 6068 as a whole. With Lechchenka's amendment, I've said it twice. Listen to each other, not talk to each other. Please vote. Please support the total of 6068. Please vote. [[11:34:10]] For 276 Decision taken. The law is passed. And, colleagues, this is a technical bill on which the Committee of Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich insisted. This is the draft Act on Amendments to Supplements Nos. 3 and No. 7 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2017 on the clarification of the name of the subsidy (5663). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Review of the simplified procedure. [[11:34:58]] For 196 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Tretlyaków Aleksandra Yuriovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u91	Honourable National Deputies, Ukraine’s National Budget for 2017, envisioned a subsidy to local housing budgets for some categories of ATO participants with disabilities and members of ATO’s dead participants totalling 329.8 million dollars. The Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine is the principal manager of these funds. However, a technical error has been made in the name of the corresponding budget program. When referring to article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guarantees of Their Social Protection, the word "absacs" is replaced by "paragraphs". Bill 5663 proposes to correct this error. Thank you to the Budget Committee for the speedy review of the bill. And I ask the National Deputies to support the adoption of this bill as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u92	Thank you. Colleagues, are they willing to discuss? Is that right? Please, two for, two for, no, please sign in. Markevich Jaroslav Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u93	Good afternoon. The Self-Help faction supports these technical changes. But against what the Committee on Budget Affairs proposes, the creation of an additional commission to determine the application of this law. That's not necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u94	Thank you. Krulko Ivan, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u95	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction, of course, supports this bill of great importance, which effectively unlocks the possibility that ATO participants and their families can realize their right to compensation and the right to housing. This is a tribute to the memory of those who have died and the respect of those who have returned with the ATO and who certainly need to improve their living conditions. But at the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that such things and such technical remedies happen because when they make changes to laws, particularly as the Law on the Status of War Veterans allows for technical amendments and then Parliament has to adopt these amendments here. So I suggest that we take a closer look at the bills that we are adopting, and this bill should certainly be approved today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u96	Thank you. Colleagues, the final speech by Kishkar Pavlov Mikolaiovich and we move on to the vote. Invite the deputies to the hall. Mr. Paul, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u97	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine In fact, important amendments that allow for the qualitative use of those budget funds that are deliberately directed towards supporting and improving the living conditions of people who have either died or were given a disability in the first degree. But besides being a good and quality law, it's corrupt enough, because it's the practice of giving up housing itself, and it's basically financial aid to those who need to improve housing conditions. Let's figure it out together at the legislative level, clean up this corrupt component, and let people really improve their living conditions. Because this practice has been going on for the third year, it looks like we're giving away this 300 million, it's really right, it's really a socially oriented thing, but it's, again, very corrupt. Only direct financial assistance to these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u98	Thank you. I'm going to ask the committee head to make it sound like we're going to vote. And I'm asking you to take your jobs and get ready for the vote. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. Mr. Alexander Yuriovich, please comment on the comments that were before the bill. You can go from there, you can go from the rostrum. Out of place, right? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u99	I don't see a problem. I was approached by the Self-Help faction to collect an article about the commission. We're cleaning out the commission story. It's already been decided on the committee's budget, and I'm saying it for the stenographers. We only change two words: paragraphs to paragraphs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u100	Thank you. So I'm going to put it to a vote with a proposal that was coined by Self-Help, Markevich's deputy. And so we can go to the vote. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Act on Amendments to Supplements No. 3 and No. 7 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 17 years on the clarification of the name of the subsidy, No. 5663, on the basis of the Committee's proposal and, in general, on the basis of the Committee's proposals and the remedies that Markevich has put forward under the transcript. So, please vote, please support as a whole the 5663, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:41:33]] For 259. The law is passed and the decision is made. Colleagues, and the next thing we know in the daytime, is a draft of the Act amending the laws of Ukraine on the provision of housing for military personnel and members of the families of military personnel who died in the course of military service duties. This is draft Law 4995. And I, colleagues, ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[11:42:20]] For-191 191-yes. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Defence Minister Shevchuk Oleg Mikolaiovich. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u101	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The draft law regulates the provision of housing for military personnel appointed to military service during mobilization, as well as the strengthening of the social protection of the family of military personnel who were killed or missing during the ATO. The project proposes that military personnel be preserved for the entire duration of the service for those who are called upon during the mobilization period and for a special period. To expand the deployment of military personnel in barracks for a special period of time. Order the deployment of military personnel assigned to military service for a special period in barracks. In addition, the project determines that housing for military personnel is to be provided in a single order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill is being implemented on the basis of the expenditure foreseen in the National Budget of Ukraine. The project is supported by the National Security and Defence Committee. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u102	Thank you, Your Honor. Please take your place. And now the word for a report from the National Security and Defence Committee is given to the national deputy representing this committee, John Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u103	Good morning, dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! I'd like to speak to Mrs. Vice Speaker. The point is that we are currently looking at two projects, 4995 and 5227, which are actually amending the same article 12 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Soldiers and Members of Their Families. But actually, we've been on the committee and we've been looking at these bills together, and we've been proposing 4995 as a basis, and 5027, the standards that are proposed in the project by the second and drafted by the government of Ukraine, take into account the proposals for second reading. In general, these projects are extremely important because they regulate the legal status of the families of the deceased, and they regulate the legal status of the families that the victims received during the anti-terrorist operation. They deal with the question of how to keep a place of residence when a person performs a task or is called upon to do tasks during an anti-terror operation. It's actually working today, but it's not regulated at the level of the law, it's working at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers. Now, of course, we are bound by these regulations to provide social protection, and the guarantees of military servicemen are already being regulated by the law. And so the 4995 committee now proposes to take the basis, and the next 5027, which introduces the rights in the same article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Social and Legal Status of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, which will now be considered next, will already propose to take those standards into account for the second reading. Because if we both take it as a basis, we're going to have a problem looking at this for me on the committee. 4995 I now propose to vote on the basis, this is an important project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u104	Thank you, Sir Ivan. Colleagues, we can now discuss this bill with you. I'm asking you to sign up for factions: two-for-two-again. For those who wish to speak on Bill 4995. Please, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u105	Please tell my colleague Yuri Odarchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u106	Please turn on Mr. Odarchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, this project is certainly very useful, and the Fatherland faction will support it. He states that if a person has been mobilized, in the absence of one, he cannot lose his residence, if not even privatized, it is an extremely correct norm. But it would not have to be introduced if we recognized that in eastern Ukraine we have a war and a line of the front, and there are not participants in the ATO, but participants in the war. In addition, the issue of the blockade, trade, and a well - known air conditioning plant in Russia would have long been resolved. If we had a front line there, there would be no trade, no Ukrainian business in the aggressor country could be and the whole country would know where we're going, and what we're fighting for. And so we have, where it's convenient for the authorities, there's a war, and where there's a trade, there's no war, there's an ATO. At the same time, I would like to have this bill redrafted before the second reading in order to prevent the use of combat status as a fraud. You know, recently there was this kind of scam when they sold an apartment, registered a kid who had never lived there before, and then the buyer couldn't use that apartment and demanded money for the baby's statement. I wouldn't want the status of ATO participants to be used in the same way. In addition, it is necessary to predict that in the absence of a person in a permanent city of residence through participation in an ATO, there is no payment for utilities that are provided without counters. We propose to adopt the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u108	You've got the position of your faction. Please, Mr. Mosiyczuk is addressed by his colleague, Yuri Chizmar. Please, Mr. Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u109	Dear Ukrainians, dear Ukrainian people! An absolutely faithful bill that will be clearly supported by the Radical Party faction. But at the same time, I would really like to stop at why these bills are coming from where they come from. Indeed, because, as the previous speaker said, we are afraid to call war a war, not us, but the Ukrainian authorities. But we realize that war is coming, and we need to understand and appreciate according to this all our actions, each of us, including those present in this room. And now that some are trying to stop Ukrainian metallurgy, I have a question: in what warring country has this happened? Maybe in Britain, in the United States, in Nazi Germany, in the Soviet Union, someone tried to stop the metallurgy? Maybe Ukraine doesn't need metal, maybe ammunition, tanks, armor, planes will be made of plastic or plastic? The question is, after Germany’s defeat in World War I, it was repatriated. These repatriations were paid by Germany by 2010, and these repatriations included coke coals. If we do not like the owners of metallurgical factories, let us nationalize them, or hypocrisy will make them miserable. They're not voting for nationalization of the aggressor country's property, and metallurgy in the belligerent country is being destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u110	Thank you. Please, from the Peter Dust Block, Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u111	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine Turning to the subject of that bill, which is actually being considered, I want essentially for the people's deputies, we just define those categories of military personnel that fall within the scope of this law and allow them to compensate for the corresponding costs of the state budget. This clearly lists three categories of military personnel who will be able to leave behind the right to use a service home, a barracks fund, or to claim adequate compensation for raising housing from that state budget that has already been approved. Minfin's clear. It clearly notes that these are the funds that are already earmarked for the state budget subsidy for local housing budgets of 300 million, which we have already mentioned, and the expenditures for the Ministry of Defence and other power structures for construction, the acquisition of military housing -- 1.3 billion dollars. So I ask everyone to support this bill in the first reading. Because, in fact, there's a whole bunch of technical disagreements that don't allow this bill to be voted on as a whole. But in general, I repeat my idea of refusing to give up housing just as much as I do to military personnel. It can only be a matter of financing a raise or an increase in wages to enable military personnel to resolve their own housing issues. I asked NATO countries, by the way, how they deal with housing. They don't decide in any way. Salary is the only way to solve the housing of the military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u112	Thank you, colleagues, the discussion is over. Please take up jobs, let's move on to the decision-making process. And I would like to point out that the committee is offering to accept only as a basis. So all differences can be reconciled between the first and the second readings. Let's get to the vote, please. And I am voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian legislation on the provision of housing for military personnel and members of families of military personnel who died in the course of military service (number 4995) on the basis of colleagues. Please vote, please support 4995 as a basis. Let's vote, colleagues. Colleagues, we vote. On the first reading, I said. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:53:52]] For 251 Decision taken. And, colleagues, the next law is circumstantial. This is a bill amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. We need to consider it under the Rules. I ask you to vote in favour of his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote, please support. [[11:54:34]] For 205 Decision taken. And I invite you to the Minister's report. Deputy Minister Shevchuk Oleg Mikolaiovich. Oleg Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u113	Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, draft law designed to make payments for renting housing for military personnel under contract. To date, such compensation is provided only for officers of the military force as well as for students who have families. The introduction of appropriate compensation as a guarantee of social protection will help to compile military parts of the listed category, especially in cities where new military units are missing. According to previous estimates, the proposed changes will require additional costs as in the project. which are not included in the draft State budget due to the absence of grounds. The real need is 786 million dollars a year for about 25,000 families of all military personnel. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u114	Thank you. Please welcome Vinnik to the report. Very concise, very brief, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Andrew Volodymyrovich, I would like to speak to you again. The point is that we have just voted on Project 4995, which amends the same article of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Soldiers and Members of Their Families. 4995 we voted on the basis. And in fact, Bill 5027 deals with one question: that the issue of rising housing is extended to the military, sergeant and senior staff, because this benefit is now reserved exclusively for the military warehouse and for the students of the higher military educational institutions. So I'm going to take this question off the table right now, and I'm going to take this change into account in 4995 before the second reading. Among other things, such a decision is supported by a committee. Maybe it's impossible. I'm just reporting what needs to be done, and the Supreme Council can do that. So let's make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u116	Thank you, Mr. Ivan. It's your committee that insisted on this, we have a decision, as the machine suggests, on the committee for processing, and that will give us a basis for preparing for the second reading to take it into account. Is such a position generally accepted? So I would like to stress that this deals with the same issue as the previous bill. It is accepted as a foundation. The proposal that we return this bill to the committee for further work. I will give Paul a minute to discuss. And let's move on to making a decision. Please, Kishkar, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, you said very well about the need for 786 million. And in view of the adoption, I have hope, in the second reading of this bill, which was drafted, we are referring to 4995, and we are expecting you then to make changes to the Budget for these 786 million. Because that's how we're going to pass the law right, people are going to expect this compensation, and there's not going to be any money in the budget. So I very much ask the National Deputies to support the return of this bill, which we are considering, to the committee; to accept then 4995; and to accept the corresponding changes to the State Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u118	Thank you. So, dear colleagues, I would like to point out that we have concluded our discussion. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. It's a bill that's consistent with what we've been looking at before. But so that we don't lose it and the suggestions could be taken into account in the second reading, there's an offer to get it back to the committee for further processing, and thus its position will be taken into account when preparing for the second reading. Is that the position taken? Please prepare for the vote, colleagues. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (No. 5027) to return the proposal to the Committee for further work. Please vote, please support me, colleagues, to the 5027 Committee for Refrigeration. Please vote, colleagues. Vote, please. Vote. [[11:59:38]] For 252 Decision taken. And, colleagues, I still want to read the announcement. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report that the parliamentary faction of the Radical Party, Oleg Láška, at its meeting on 20 February 2017, decided to exclude from the faction of the Ukrainian national deputy Artemenko Andrej Viktorović. Colleagues, according to the Rules, we have a break for half an hour now. At 12:30, we'll continue our work. Please be instructed to attend the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at 12.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, the time taken for recess is exhausted. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and continue our work. I would like to emphasise that there is now an important draft decree on honouring the heroes of Ukraine and informing Ukrainian citizens of the achievements of the Ukrainian military. And I'm asking all factions to mobilize so that we can look at it effectively and effectively. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite deputies to the Hall, and I ask the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall. As long as the MPs come in, I'll read out the announcement. According to the statement and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Benjuzhenko Fedor Volodymyrovic, into the political party 'National Front' of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. Welcome to our newly elected fellow MP. [[Applause]] So, colleagues, first is the vote. This is a proposal for a reduced procedure. And I'm asking you to support this proposal, and then we can have a more productive workday. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. We are moving on to the draft Order on Honoring the Heroes of Ukraine and informing Ukrainian citizens of the achievements of the Ukrainian military, number 6045. Please support the proposal to consider the bill in a simplified manner. Please vote and please support. Please vote. [[12:45:11]] For-129 Not everyone's there yet. I'll wait another minute. Please invite the deputies into the hall. It is not a complex decision, it is not a large one, but a very important one. And, colleagues, I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall, prepare for the vote. We have the following blocks: both self-governance, and fuel-energy complex, colleagues. We need to work as effectively as possible, so I very much ask all the people's deputies from the towers to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And please support me, colleagues. So I am re-voting the proposal to consider the short-term draft Order on Honoring the Heroes of Ukraine and informing Ukrainian citizens of the achievements of the Ukrainian military (No.6045). Please vote and please support, colleagues. I'd like to support 6045, please, on short notice. Please vote. [[12:47:06]] For-153 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Sumar Victoria Petrovna. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u120	Mr. Head, respectable colleagues! Snito Andriy Volodymyrovich. Do many of us today know who this name is? In fact, we should know because it's the youngest hero in Ukraine. This is the guy who went to the front when he was 17 years old, participated in the liberation of Mariupol, and then in the fights under Iloviak, when the grenade flew into the house, he priced his life to cover this grenade and saved the whole mouth of his brothers. He was rewarded with the title "The Hero of Ukraine." There's this guy. We were talking today about the Heroes of the Sky of the 100th, the anniversary of the Mayan shooting. On February 20, the Russian-Ukrainian war began when the Celestial 100 was shot. You know, it's this date that's been carved out on February 20th because of the return of Crimea. The day of the beginning of the war that claimed thousands of lives of Ukrainians. At the same time, however, she showed that Ukraine is a heroic nation that is now ready to die for its land. In three years, we have many heroes, but can we name their names? And that's a question for each of us. And I am convinced that far away, everyone can call either three or five heroes. Our decision is very simple. It foresees very simple steps. These are honor boards in schools, in colleges, in councils, in local self-government bodies that will inform Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainians, children about the inventions of Ukrainian military forces, about what is happening today in eastern Ukraine. By their names we should call the streets, by their names we should call the schools where they were taught, the branches.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u121	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u122	You know, I'm probably not going to take this time for a lot of pathetic words, the essence of this determination is clear to everyone. We've been devaluation the pathetic words in this room for a long time. I want the names of those Ukrainians with the honor of "The Hero of Ukraine" here. And I ask the Head to give me that opportunity. So today I'm going to name them all. Herring of Ukraine: Major General Sergei Kulchitsky, Lieutenant Colonel Kostiant Mogilko, Major Andrew Tkakov, Private Andrew Snitko, Lieutenant Lieutenant Vladimir Harmatay, Sergey Tabala (Capitan), Lieutenant Colonel Mikita Jarovy, Colonel Alexander Lavrenko, Lieutenant Colonel Taras Senyuk, Lieutenant Colonel Bogdan Zawad, Major Major Michaelo Zabrodsky, Lieutenant Colonel Eugenius Zelensky, Colonel Igor Gordiychuk, Colonel Alexander Trezevsky, Major Sergei Krivonosov, Major Dmitry Mybroda, Major Alexander Petrakovsky, Lieutenant Colonel Alexander Anishtenko, Major Herr Herasimenko, Colonel Alexander Trepak, Colonel Sergiy Shaptala, Nada Savicanosko (Old Lieutenant Commander), Lieutenant Commander Islightman Most of them are postmortem, but they're alive. Thank you all. Honest respect to heroes. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u123	The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Princely Nikola Leonidovich. Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality at its meeting on 8 February 2017 (Protocol No. 53) reviewed the draft Order on Honoring Ukrainian Heroes and Informing Ukrainian Citizens of the Inventions of Ukrainian Military (No. 6045), introduced by Ukrainian National Deputies Sümar, Lášk, Kondratuk, Heratchenko, Greeniv, Opanasenko, Pavlenko. Members of the committee at the meeting supported the need for such a decision. But they stressed that the text of the project needed editing. The committee shall make the following suggestions to the text of the draft decision and shall propose that they be taken into account in the plenary session. In paragraph one before the word "general education," add the word "recommend to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine to entrust." After the word "federation," add the term "to develop the right position." In paragraph 2, before the word "local self-government body," add the word "recommend," the words "heroes who come from these territories" shall be replaced by "the heroes of Ukraine, the participants in the anti-terrorist operation in Ukraine who are the natives of these territories." In paragraph 3, after the words “put on” add “the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence”. Paragraph 4 should be edited as follows: "This decision takes effect from the day of its adoption." As a result of the review, the committee recommends a draft Order on Honoring the Heroes of Ukraine and informing Ukrainian citizens of the invention of the Ukrainian military (No.6045) on the basis of the Committee's proposals as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u125	Thank you. Please record two in favor, two in favour. Liszko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u126	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ukrainians and future generations of our people must forever remember the names of the heroes who gave their lives for the independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity of our home country. The Radical Party faction will therefore vote in favour of this bill. Everyone, small to old, must remember the names of these glorious warriors forever.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u127	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u128	Thank you. The People's Front will support this decision. You know, when we communicate with our brothers, we never say that there were dead people living there, there or loved, or how, we keep telling them that they are with us, they are next to us, they live there, and we remember them. So it is the memory of these boys as long as we remember them as long as they live. Hence, it is this determination that is right for people to really remember what makes them live, what makes them happy. Therefore, we will support this decision and call on all to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u129	Thank you. Please, Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich. He's giving Andrew Teteruck the word. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u130	Surely we should support this initiative, and we should honor the memory of the dead heroes of Ukraine, those who are marked by the President’s decree. But I think we in Parliament should also remember all the supporters of Ukraine. Not only the soldiers but also the fighters of the volunteer battalions, the volunteers who defended our country and died, gave their lives to protect our country from Russian aggression. And so I'm also going to propose in the near future, so let's think about the 5066-d regulation on Thursday, which has been worked out by the committee, and is also ready for our decision. And in this way we honor the memory of all the dead participants in the antiterrorist operation. The memory of those who belonged to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, those who came to defend themselves as volunteer battalions, all those who helped us in the most turbulent months of the hot year 2014. It is our honor to all those who have given their lives to help us build a strong and successful country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u131	Heroic glory! Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u132	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. The "Fatherland" faction unquestionably supports the specified draft of the decree. But I'd like to pay attention to something else. You know, even the necessary symbolic great things we make in haste, we make mistakes. And I want to add to the list that the committee head read, another name that Basil Blindak had forgotten. What a hero of Ukraine, a volunteer, died. So, you know, when we're making this decision, and then the vote committee makes essentially the second text of the regulation or the two more sheets, it's probably wrong. But once again, the matter is really necessary. It's really the right thing to do. We must honor all of our heroes who protect Ukraine, those heroes who are marked by the highest mark of Ukraine, they must, of course, be honored separately. So once again, the Fatherland faction will vote unanimously for this and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u133	Thank you. I'll give you the word "self-help" first, Markevich, two minutes. Then Batenko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u134	The Self-Help faction supports this ruling, and we agree that none of the heroes should be. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u135	I'm sorry. I have a request, you could go into the national language if it wasn't difficult. Please, if you don't mind, I have a big request for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u136	That we should not forget those heroes who, unfortunately, have not yet received a worthy reward from the government. Like Eugene Tellnov, the invited "The Eater", the Donbas battalion, which has a confirmed case in the battle of the destruction of enemy technology and the salvation of wounded comrades. Unfortunately, he's already dead. And they also need to be defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u137	Thank you. Please, Taras Batenko. Colleagues. Yes, well, there's Mr. Krivenko. Colleagues, but don't make the discussion too big. Batenko, Krivenko and colleagues, let's be on it. Melniczuk, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, dear friends, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council! We certainly support this draft decree to honor all our heroes. But we can't pay attention to the following. Just below the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, more than 5,000 people gathered. I know that many of you have spoken from the rostrum of this evening. Ukrainian patriots who have come from all parts of Ukraine, volunteers, social organizations patriotic, ATO soldiers, mothers who are actually caring for their children who are prisoners of war. This war will last decades, if our oligarchs continue, and the authorities will earn money in this war, in the blood of our heroes. We're not fighting for self-piarity right now, we're not making the self-piar of our political party. We're going to Self-Help, we're going to Fatherland, Freedom, BPP, all factions present here, People's Front, Lalach faction. Let's make a common algorithm, it's done by this common algorithm, not by us, other factions. There is a bill that can be recognized by the temporarily occupied territories. What other steps are needed to recognize the invader as an occupier? Putin has already recognized them as invaders, in fact as his territory, recognizing the passports of the LNR and the DNR, and we continue to feed this cancer tumor with money, our wealth, and the deaths of our better men and sons of our homeland. Let's take this week to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Thursday's draft, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Head of the Pro-Profession Commission, Head of the Self-Help faction, as the initiator of this bill, join us together, vote on this bill Thursday, and establish a temporary commission of inquiry to verify all aspects of trade with occupied territories. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u139	Fellows, let's be more dynamic. Krivenka, one minute. Melniczuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u140	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. I want to support the initiative of Jaroslav Markevich, who proposes to add to this a list of those fighters whose documents are now in the process of being drafted, such as the Kombat Bug inviting "Mowgli" who died, saving his subordinates, the documents have already passed through the Ministry of Defence, are at the head of the General Staff. The commander - in - charge personally promised to assign this title because they knew of his feat. And I want to thank Victoria Sumar for this initiative, it's very important, and ask that the following decisions complement those heroes of Ukraine, outstanding figures of the past century, such as Stephen Bandera, such as Viacheslav Cnerovil, with this determination and with these names. I'm just saying that I don't want this to be a complete list right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u141	Thank you. Please, Sergey Melniczuk. And let's go to the vote. Everyone, please enter the hall and prepare for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u142	Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people." I think that one of the things that we're going to do with this is we're going to be against our Ukrainians, our patriots, our liberators, our defenses, we're not going to get away from them. Because, for example, to take only after my battalion, I was at the end of last Sunday at the Ministry of Defense, 57 people are the people who, in the Idar penal battalion, actually went to the armory, before the gunship, like a penalty battalion, liberated our territories. No one, i.e. more than half the people, didn't get U.B.I., I'm not talking about rewards anymore, they're. "Glory to the Dead!" We've been trying for a year and a half, and those sitting in the back, with the chests in the medals, are now stuck to those people who are ploughing on the blockade, on the blood that's in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u143	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u144	When we were protecting Ukraine, they were thrown out of their smuggling streams, and they were trying to return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u145	Thank you. Colleagues, so we move on to making decisions. I would like to stress that not by name, but by principle, there is a decision, and it sets out the principle of the heroes of Ukraine. And that's why we should vote in favour of the committee's proposal. When changes occur, we will make adjustments to the decision. I'm asking you to take up jobs. We're moving on to making a decision, colleagues. Please. I very much ask everyone to come into the hall, heads of factions to invite deputies into the hall. This is an important decision, and I hope that no one will ignore it because there is no discipline. Colleagues, I am specifically turning to the bed on the left, urging you to return to your workplace. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the draft Order on Honoring the Heroes of Ukraine and informing Ukrainian citizens about the inventions of the Ukrainian military (number 6045) in the second reading on the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. On the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote, please. [[13:05:59]] For 256 It's been decided. Decision taken. Colleagues, the next we have is a draft decision very short, very technical. This is a draft of the Ordinance on the Cessation of the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Savchenka (number 5346). And, colleagues, I'm asking you to support the ruling on a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[13:06:44]] For 215 I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u146	Dear Head, fellow countrymen of Ukraine. The committee at its meeting on November 2, 16th, reviewed the application of the Ukrainian National Deputy Alexia Savchenka, a member of the parliamentary faction "Blok Petra Prashenka" on the composition of the parliamentary powers and put forward a draft decree on the permanent termination of the powers of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savchenka Aleksija Juriovic (registration 5346). This draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 15 November 2016 was considered and not supported. Savchenka Aleksija Juriovich was appointed president of Ukraine on 6 October 2016 as head of the Mikolayev Observance. In this context, we propose to determine how to vote on the early termination of the powers of the national MP, Saucenka, and to support the relevant draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u147	Colleagues, can you tell if there is a need to discuss the matter? We're voting, aren't we? Please take your seats, please prepare for the vote. This is the responsibility of the Supreme Council when a person enters the service in the executive branch to deprive us of the powers of MPs. I'm asking you to take a job, come into the hall. So, colleagues, can we vote? Vote. I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the permanent termination of the power of the Ukrainian national deputy Saucenka, number 5346. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. 5346 as a whole, we vote, colleagues. [[13:09:23]] For 248 Decision taken. Colleagues, so we go to the first page, this is a block of agrarian politics. The committee proposed four bills on this block, the first two on the second reading. And, dear fellows, we are going to consider 0906, the first draft of the law to be passed by the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. This is a draft of the Law on State Control for the purpose of verifying compliance with legislation on the safety and quality of food and feed, animal health and welfare (0906). This is the bill that the committee put up as the first to consider in this block. And I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on agrarian politics and land relations, Juršin Petr Vasilovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u148	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed for a second reading of the Ukrainian Law on State Control (Registration No. 0906) bill on the safety and quality of food and feed, animal health and welfare, and approved by the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee on December 22, 2016. The bill’s name has been updated, and it now reads as follows: State control over the enforcement of food, food, animal by-products, animal health, and animal welfare. Thus, the mass food poisonings of our fellow citizens, including the children of recent times, confirm the existence of serious problems with food safety control. In view of this, the main achievement of the bill is that it will also allow for an effective control system that protects every consumer from the acquisition of a dangerous product. Draft Law 0906 is based on such principles: the functions of a state control organization are merged within one competent authority of the State Food Service. Control is exercised by persons with proper qualifications and appropriate training. The competent authority shall act on the principles of openness, transparency and planning. State control covers the entire food chain and operates according to the principle of rope to table. State control of imported animal products will take place in specially equipped places on the state control of Ukraine, not on domestic customs, as is the case today. This will allow us to prevent the introduction of dangerous products into Ukraine and to save on the cost of its disposal. The mechanism of responsibility is flexible and takes into account the different circumstances of making the most just decision. In some cases, operators who have committed or committed a minor misdemeanour for the first time will be exempt from the fine. In addition, the bill removes excessive administrative burden on market operators, optimizes the cost of the state and protects consumer interests. The adoption of the bill will allow us to make serious progress in fulfilling our obligations under the agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u149	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u150	So it's counted. Just a minute. It takes into account the European Union regulations No. 882, 854, 669, Directive 9778 and Decision No. 275 of the European Commission. So the adoption of this bill will allow us to build a European food and feed safety control system and expand the export of our consumer. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u151	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u152	There were 97 amendments to Bill 0906. Of these, 21 are counted, 66 is edited, not only 10 are counted. And it also takes into account the large number of observations made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thus, the amended bill was discussed by the Committee on Agricultural Policy, Land Relations, and recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it in the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u153	You won't be there in a second. Please say the closing matter for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u154	The indifferent fate of the Ukrainian people, the life and health of our citizens, our children, our children, because there are no strangers and in order to avoid the issues of counterfeiting, manufacture and implementation of the product, please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Thank you for the report. Stay in the rostrum. Now we're going to talk about the rights. Colleagues, I know this bill has a lot of debates in the room and during the discussion of the rights, you can express your thoughts and your positions, we're moving to its consideration. I'll call those changes that are rejected, but you can take for confirmation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Has anyone told you you don't have that right? I said I'll read the ones that are rejected, and you raise your hand and say, by what turns, you want to bet on confirmation. So, which way do you want to go, you want to go for confirmation. Turn on Kugel's microphone. First one, Sold. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u156	No, it's sold first.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u157	Please turn on Oksani Sell. Then there's Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u158	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! In fact, the project is very important, it needs both manufacturers and consumers. At the same time, his writing to the second reading does not meet the goals that have been and are somewhat questionable at different times. So I'm asking you to put amendment 6 on confirmation. Amendment 6-a, which provides for the definition of loads not of a whole lot, but specifically of means of transport, which makes transport much more expensive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u159	Thank you. Please, Peter Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u160	Dear Oksana Petrovna, the bill stipulates that for each party, namely, for every car or ship, what this will be accompanied, there must be an appropriate document. When the luggage crossed the border, he goes to different places. What, make copies? Let's put it this way. It may be a payment to set up a party, but the document must be for each mode of transport.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u161	The 6th is proposed for confirmation. And you have another idea, don't you? Do you have any other opinion on the 6th amendment? So take another correction and speak on it. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u162	I want to support the warnings of the author of the Oxana Prodan bill. And I want to stress that we're wasting time and we're violating, firstly, the GNEU report of the Supreme Council, which is worthless, violates more than ten articles of the Constitution, according to the Rules, 90 percent of the text is not accepted in the first reading, so every amendment needs to be voted on, and the worst, very serious corruption risks. In that amendment number 6 answer, listen, honourable deputies, you look into the eyes of business. If you get a party today, for example, by boat, you get one veterinary certificate, you make copies of it, and you drive around Ukraine. Now this law offers for every car, so you go to me and you pay me, guys, the money for today's business around the corner, and then the consumer pays for everything at the cost of this fish. That's the first one.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u163	So once again, the head of the committee for one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u164	Dear Alexander Volodymyrna, I have just said that the price is set for the party and the document is issued for every mode of transport. I want to say, the biggest component and corruption when the products were forged, namely, in 2007, Argentine blocked meat was eaten by our children, that was corruption, and that was for the rich, and our children got a number of diseases.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u165	Thank you. So a colleague, the chairman of the committee, is asking for support, to confirm the 6th decree of the National MP Bakumenka. Right? Peter Vasilovich, yes. So, I'm betting on confirmation and I'm asking you to support the committee, 6 of the people's deputies' rights, Bakumenka's, were put in for confirmation. Whoever supports the committee and the amendment, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:20:27]] For-144 144, not confirmed. Next, 7th. National MP Kulinich, is he insisting? Don't insist. 14th, Kugel. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, I address the entire room, respecting the time of the deputies and the people who stand under the Supreme Council. I propose putting on a second reading again, we are ready to work out this bill in a week and adopt it without any corruption risks and without legal errors that will not be signed by the legal department, and bring it into the hall, and adopt it as, indeed, a necessary law to protect both the manufacturer and the consumer. Thank you. Edit 14 for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u167	14th. So, 14 to the left, Peter Vasilovich, please. 30 seconds, turn on Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u168	This amendment is very important, and I ask her to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u169	The Fourteenth Amendment, Kulinich, I ask for confirmation because state monitoring in no country is a control. This is a government function that collects information. This is also presented as an additional kind of control. Monitoring is not control, it's information for government decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u170	Thus, the 14th amendment of the Kulinić People’s Chamber is requested for confirmation, the committee supports it, and the committee requests its confirmation. So 14 papers, National Deputy Kulinic, for confirmation. Who supports the committee and the amendment, vote. Vote please, colleagues. [[13:22:28]] For-153 The decision is not taken. 22nd, Kulinich. Don't insist. First, Sold, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u171	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! I'm asking for confirmation of Amendment 9. This is an amendment that defines "economy," which says that agriculture is possible only in the case of livestock cultivation and no more. And this is a definition that is not used in the text of the project. So I would like to ask Amendment 9 for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u172	Thank you. Will you comment? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u173	Dear Oksano Petrovno! Farming is a power used by the market operator for the production, cultivation, maintenance, and exhibition and sale of live animals. Everything else is prescribed in another law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u174	Thank you. Please put to the vote. [[13:23:43]] For-144 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Mrs. Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u175	Dear colleagues! I, Oxana and I, are talking to you with great respect to all who have prepared this bill for the committee. We very much want this bill to meet European standards for protecting Ukrainian producers and the population. And so we ask you now to vote, without wasting time, for the second reading again and in a week, to bring it back to work, legally and legally, without any corruption risks. Please. And Amendment 15 of the bakumenko is confirmed by the fact that it introduces a different text than the first reading. But in the end, there's a third edition that doesn't have any revisions. So there's a floor is an editor's first reading, there's a Bakumenka right that's written "accounted for," and a text that has nothing to do with either first or second. 15 Bakumenko repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u176	Thank you. Can I have your comments, please? Will the National MP Bakumenko comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, I'd like to make it clear that we're still going very professionally on this subject. Two minutes, well, the amendment, I'm speaking for my amendment. You don't have any repairs, you put them in, and I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u178	Out of place, out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u179	I'll be speaking from the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] And who are you, Chief of the Supreme Council, what do you command? Well, give me a break. There's no one else in the room. The State Control Act 0906 was completed by a full expert evaluation among representatives of the domestic agrarian business. The following major national associations expressed support for the bill: Agrarian Union, Ukrainian Agrarian Business Club, Union of Pigs, Birds, Milk Producers Association, All-U.S. Agar Council, Animalprom Corporation. As soon as possible, the draft law was also requested by the Deputy Prime Minister. But most importantly, what he's saying right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u180	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u181	One minute, please. I want to read, the committee gave us on. Mr Hugo Mingareli has determined that this bill is in line with the EU. I want to read a half-minute answer. Expert assessment of the compliance of this bill with the requirements of EU legislation, improvement of the control system. I would like to stress that this bill is of great importance and that the harmonisation of the system of State control and veterinary checks in the requirements of the EU is necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the Free Trade Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. Now what you're doing is you're breaking the law. So I'm making a proposal from the committee: a second reading, and I'm going to solve this. For the correction of those who are behaving, you know how the hall votes for them. For another second reading from the committee, please submit.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u182	Thank you to the committee and to the committee head. There are only 10 amendments here, but with confirmations. And so now I'm going to put the proposal that was made by the committee to a vote. I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall, come into the hall. And while the MPs are in the hall, please, Bakumenko. Do you have a different offer or not, Mrs. Oksana? Well, we put it in. Colleagues, the committee has proposed. Peter Vasilovich, there's still a need to speak, isn't there? Please, one minute, Peter Vasilovich Jurchishin. And please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u183	Dear Alexander Volodymyr, Reverend Oksana Petrovna! The bill is presented in this very calling, Oksana Petrovna, by you. For three years this bill has been spinning, it's rotated in the Supreme Council, and you've had time to work with the task force to make the bill today legal. Because today, I'm going to tell you, I came to Parliament just from a manufacturing business, and that business needs a bill like that today. Because we need to be honest about our work, our children need to use quality products. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u184	Please, one more minute sold, Burbak one minute. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u185	Thank you very much, Andrey Volodymyrovich. I want to draw your attention to the fact that this bill is really necessary, and as its author, I say so. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill is prepared with a loudly breaking regulation, between the amendment and the final edition of the big, big gap, between the first draft of the project and the last edition of the big, big gap. So I ask you very much, Andrija Volodymyrovich, give an order to the committee secretariat to prepare the next edition for the second reading in accordance with the Ukrainian Rules. That's the main thing. Keep going. I now ask all the deputies of all factions and groups to support this bill for re-reading. We can remove from it all the corruption standards that are there now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u186	I want to confirm the committee's proposal, they're proposing a second reading so that all the proposals can be taken into account in the discussion. So let's do a lot more. Vote, colleagues? No, they insist. Then a minute more Burbak, a minute more Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u187	My fellow Members, I appeal to all MPs to support this bill in a second reading, because the representation of the European Union in Ukraine believes that the adoption and implementation of this bill will bring the Ukrainian food control system closer to that of the European Union. That is, the EU's representation awaits its final approval, as this is one of Ukraine's commitments under the Association Agreement. Dear colleagues, we are members of the coalition, I am addressing my colleagues from the WFP, we are always supporting important bills by Oksana Prodan. We therefore vote in second reading and help to implement European legislation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u188	Thank you. Please, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyr is one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u189	First, this law has nothing to do with European standards and requirements, it's obvious. Secondly, in order for you to appreciate for yourself what's in this law and what the quality of food people get, just look at the facts. First. This law provides for the delegation by the State authorities of competent measures of State control to individuals and legal persons who will determine who will control. And the second. It is possible to finance certain types of government control at the expense of market participants. Well, just write it down, it's just corruption and you can buy all the quality certificates. I want to say that more corrupt law is hard to imagine. Food quality control is a national function that depends on the health of the nation. What you do in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, I'd like to rephrase the committee's proposal. The committee requests that the second reading be re-readed so that it can be corrected and processed. I understand the whole room supports this proposal, right? Yes. Can I put the committee's proposal to the vote? So I am voting for a motion to refer to the committee for a second reading of the draft Law on State Control, which is carried out in order to verify the conformity of legislation on the safety and quality of food and feed, animal health and welfare. — No. 0906. Please support the committee's proposal for a second reading. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support the committee's proposal. [[13:33:39]] For 224 I can see we just didn't make it. Colleagues, I see you don't shout. When voting, colleagues, you have to be in the workplace. So I ask you to vote for the return. Please, I'll wait 30 seconds, please come in. Are you guys ready? So the first sentence is to go back to voting. Please vote, please support, return to vote 0906. Please vote, and then I'll put the second reading back on. So, first vote, please come back. Please vote, vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:34:51]] For 236 Decision taken. And I would like to stress again: I am re-reading the draft Law on State Control, which is being carried out to verify that legislation is consistent with the safety and quality of food and feed, animal health and welfare. Please vote, please support. For a second reading to the committee. Please support 0906. Please vote. [[13:35:34]] For 235 Decision taken. The next draft law, which was recommended by the Committee on Agricultural Policy, is a draft of Law 2028a, as well as a second reading. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the resolution of specific issues of the legal status of agricultural land. And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, Mr. Grigori Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the settlement of specific issues of the legal status of agricultural land (registration number 2028a), adopted on 8 December 2015, has been submitted for your consideration. As you can see, this bill is already a bearded bill. I remind you that this bill is aimed at simplifying the procedure for the creation and operation of farms, in particular by giving them the right (given the right, I stress) to establish a farm for all Ukrainian citizens, regardless of their respective education and experience in agriculture; allowing for the transformation of the land rental rights that were granted to the founder of the farm, into a farm, i.e. a legal person; and determining the legal status of agricultural land as a land for agricultural production. In preparing for the second reading to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, 51 amendments and proposals were received from the right-holders of the legislative initiative, the National Deputies of Ukraine, which included the full, partial or editorial 38 and rejected 13. The amendments taken into account relate to the editorial revisions adopted in the first reading. With regard to the rejected amendments, they propose to preserve the existing edition of the relevant rules of the Ukrainian Code of Land and the Ukrainian Law on Farming. Yes, it is suggested that amendments 16, 17 should be rejected, which makes it possible to obtain land for farming without auction. I would like to remind you that we ruled out this rule on February 18, 2016, when we passed the Ukrainian Law on Change to the Ukraine Land Trade Code (number 1012-8). Another amendment is number 34. He proposes to rule out the possibility of farming as a legal person, to reshape the lease on the land given to its founder. I feel that it is also useless to support it because then farming will not be able to pay for the land and perform other contractual duties because it is legally not a tenant. At its meeting on March 12th, the committee considered the draft draft draft for the second reading of the bill and decided to support the draft bill in second reading and in general as a law. I'd like your support, Your Honor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u192	Thank you. Comrades, let's move to the right. And I'm going to read which were rejected in an article. So 10th. It's an unscrupulous national MP. Don't insist. 11th. Martinak. Don't insist. 13th. Yvchenko. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u193	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I urge everyone to resend this law for a second reading. Two standards that today are just embarrassing us with you and misleading the real development of farming. First. That's what's going on, the corporateization of farms. So now the farmers, people are going to give up even the leased land that agriculture rents, for the sake of farming, that is, for the sake of the T.O.K. Thus, the TRADE will gather these lands and then be sold as a legal person. Colleagues, it is better to adopt an honest law to make a hidden sale of agricultural land. And the amendment, I want to, Gregory Mikhailovich, you always said, "Who has to work in agriculture -- those who have experience." In Denmark, for example, you can't get land if you live more than 15 kilometers, in France, if you don't have animals, in other countries you also need experience and education. That's why you've taken away your experience and education here, and I want you to work on the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u194	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u195	I would ask that those who can work on the earth work. And, believe me, before that, we had quite a normal formulation that documents that confirm the experience of farming, living in a certain rural area, and agrarian education. Only those people can rent land and do farming. In this case, you're even removing any obstacles to the development of agriculture and direct work with the land.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u196	Please, Gregory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u197	Thank you. I want to tell Vadim, my colleague, that this is exactly what I thought. But at the request of many farmers who don't have agronomic, agrarian education at all, and have very cool indicators. And today there's a farm in the Kalinov region that we have, has the best indicators in the Vinnitsky region, and it's a gassy specialty itself. So I think it's wrong, and I agreed with the committee's view that there are people who, without higher education, work very well on the ground. So it's not a major amendment. The other one. I don't know about corporate. We would like to stress, once again, that we only give farmers the right to move from farming as a legal person. Why? Because there are so many cases where people who work in a farm, relatives, for example, have died as farm manager, and they have no right to inherit, they have no right to share it with each other, even on a pie. If he has a father.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u198	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u199	Or someone else is working, someone who, after the death of the farm manager, wants to split up. If there is no legal person, they will not be able to do so. And you, Vadim, know that very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u200	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u201	I insist, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u202	And I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 13th National Deputy Ivchenka. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote, committee against. Please vote. [[13:42:57]] For-95 The decision is not made. 14th, Nesterenko. Don't insist. 15th, Yvchenko. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u203	Colleagues, this is 17 revisions, I want to say, you know, we've made auctions with you, we've introduced that people can take land through auctions. But at the same time, we are adopting the Family Farmer Promotion Act, and we are talking about the need for the family to go to auction today to get land. I myself offered to remove land from auctions for farming with the status of family farming. Unfortunately, the committee didn't support it, but I'm asking that we take this into account, this is the development of an entrepreneurial environment in the country, it's a small and medium-sized business. As they will be, the whole family will have the opportunity through the auction to take the land to do their job and get a job. I'm asking you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u204	Please comment, Mr. Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u205	I want to say that we passed a law with you that no one else has the right to get land without auction, and you and I voted for it. And today there can't be any other way, because the amendment that Vadim Evgenovich is proposing is, I think it's appropriate to reject. After all, the paragraph to which amendments are proposed has already been excluded from the Ukraine’s Law Code of the Earth since 18.02. 2016 (No 1012-8). In addition, allowing land to be leased outside the auction to be leased contributes to corrupt schemes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u206	They insist on voting. This is not a discussion. One minute there's a speech, one minute there's a comment, and then there's a vote. You still have a lot of amendments you can say any of the following. Colleagues, so I'm voting on the amendment of the 17th National Deputy Ivchenka. The committee turned her down. The supporter of the 17th Amendment of Ichchenka, please vote. Please. [[13:45:22]] For-69 The decision is not made. So what's the readjustment? 19 papers, please, Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u207	Gregory Mikhailovich, please don't play double. You said corruption schemes today, and you look at the following laws that go directly to us, that we're going to exclude them from auctions under aquaculture, objects that are going to be directly under water, we're going to exclude them from auctions. Objects on which Are we going to do so in lands where there are meliorate systems or watersheds? So, on the one hand, we can do, and on the other hand, we can't develop family farming and we can't afford the whole land. So I insist, colleagues, this is a corporation of farms, this is a law that goes directly to normal. which will introduce a hidden sale of agricultural land. These land banks will grow and grow in the Tucks, and then the Notary will sell directly the Tucks themselves, resulting from the founding members of a limited - liability society. I ask you to re-read the second reading and let's prepare a normal law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u208	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u209	This bill has been with this beard since 2015, and no one has prevented, I say again, from making any laws. What's more, Vadim Evgenovich, you and I, as colleagues, sit there as intercessors, we can always argue if there are any questions. And what's more, I don't understand you any more than I do because I've spent my whole life there. I'm deeply convinced that this is a distant question from corporateism, it just gives the members of the farm the right after the death of the father or the manager there to divide between themselves if they want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u210	So you insist on confirming 19 amendments. So I'm betting on a vote to confirm the 19th amendment of the People's Deputy Kulinic. The committee supported her. So whoever supports the committee and the amendment, please vote. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:48:01]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Next up is 23rd, Storobubu. 20th, I'm sorry. 20th, Timoshenko. Please, 20 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u211	I'm asking you to put 20 revisions on confirmation. But the main thing to say is the Law on the Shadow Sale of Agricultural Land. The name of this law, which applies to farming, is a lie because the Association of Farmers is against this law, and there can be no farmers against the law that is in their favor. That's not true, it's not for farmers. There will be limited liability societies, where all professional requirements for those who run these farms will be removed, these land areas will be sold in the shadows, farmers will be unable to compete at any auction. This is the technology of selecting land from farmers. So the "Fatherland" faction, first of all, reports that this is a shadowy sale of agricultural land, which is a shadow. And secondly, he urges everyone to vote against this law. It's categorical. And one more thing. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u212	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u213	I ask you to know that after the vote for this law, if the vote is effective or ineffective, we will send a roll-call vote to every farm and village. Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u214	Please comment, Gregory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u215	Julia Volodymyrna, first of all, I want to address you. Look at me, you've known me for many years. Do I look like I can compromise and work against a farmer?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u216	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u217	I don't see anything wrong with this bill. We give, we don't commit, we give people the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u218	Thank you. So I'm asking for confirmation of the amendment of 20 of the Anointed People's Deputies for confirmation. The committee supported her. Whoever supports the committee and supports the amendment, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:50:38]] For 148 The decision is not taken. 23rd, Storob. Don't insist, yes. 21st, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u219	I ask for confirmation of the 21st People's Deputies of Kulinić. But before that, I want to say that I have great respect for the informant of this law. And I'm asking you and the entire team that supports today both agrarians and farming, not to allow the shadowy sale of agricultural land without lifting a moratorium, contrary to the Constitution, entirely on a corrupt basis. And because I respect you personally, I ask you not to defend such laws. You know very well that farmers will have no place in this law. In addition, we need to be honest about where the sale of agricultural land, and where it is not sold, is a direct sale. All who oppose the sale of agricultural land cannot vote in favour of this law. And those who claim to sell agricultural land cannot support shadow procedures. This law is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u220	Please, Gregory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u221	Julia Volodymyrna, well, first of all, this bill doesn't say anything about selling land. We're talking about giving the right to farmers who want, and there are people like that, a lot, to turn their farming into a legal person. First, it's a guaranteed payment to the state budget for land taxes; secondly, it gives people the right to split up if they want to, break up and have the opportunity to get their share of the pie. And everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u222	Thank you. I'm betting on confirmation of the 21st amendment, the Kulinić National MP, which the committee supported. Whoever supports the committee and the amendment, please vote. Please vote. The committee's asking for support. Vote. [[13:53:01]] For-152. The decision is not made. 34th. 22nd, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u223	22 revisions, I demand confirmation. You're absolutely right. You're right. You're not selling the land right here. It is a hidden sale, the earth will accumulate for a limited - liability society, and then, together with the earth, they will be sold to a limited - liability society. Such earth collectors will be created, where the earth will be stockpiled, leading these enterprises not to be agrarians, because the skills required are removed, and then, when accumulated, they will sell, not land, but a limited liability company that owns the earth. This cannot be done because it is better to discuss honestly, who is selling agricultural land, and who is against it. So it's not a sale, it's practically a fictitious sale. And I'm proposing that this law should be removed in general because it is unfair to Ukraine. Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u224	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u225	You want to sell agricultural land, you put it in a popular referendum, and let people say whether to sell land or not. But what I want to remind you is that in Canada's largest agricultural country, 90 percent of the agricultural land belongs to the state, and only 8 percent is around. They're no stupider than anyone else. Protect our land and do not sell it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u226	Please, Gregory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u227	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to say that I don't spend much time here, and I haven't made up my mind to break up and sell. I'm not offering to sell it. I'm telling you again, there's no word here about sales, there's no subtext here. But you can make anything out of any law. And these amendments that you're putting to the vote, they've already crossed out this law. It can already be taken and rescheduled. But I don't understand our colleagues who voted, and now half of them don't vote anymore. It is not clear why that is the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u228	Thank you. So I'm betting on confirmation of 22 amendments. The committee supported her. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please have the committee support and call on the deputies to vote. [[13:55:56]] For-167 The decision is not made. Colleagues, please don't break up, there are four adjustments left. Announce the amendments. Yes, 23 is rejected. Which one? 24 Amendments, Oleg Valeriovich Lyszko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u229	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'll explain to Mr. Grigory why we don't vote, you say you don't understand. The answer is very simple. Your government wants to sell the land. The draft memorandum with the International Monetary Fund provides a market for land. By the way, I am pleased that my colleague, Julia Timoshenko, has changed her position and is now opposed to selling the land. Because in 2008, when she was Prime Minister, she signed a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, which envisions the sale of land. It's very good that we finally have more members of Parliament who don't support the land market. Because, Mr. Mud and Honorable Colleagues of the Comprador Coalition, who want to sell the land. Last year’s harvest of 66 million grains shows that it is possible to harvest record crops without selling land. One problem is that the villagers are poor in these record crops. So give farmers cheap credits, opportunities to sell their products, implement them, and do not destroy them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u230	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u231	And then everything will be fine. A wager on small farming, on family farms, not on latifundia, as you do today. Because in the case of latifundia, transnational corporations will come, and we'll have nothing to sow except technical cultures. That's why we're calling for this law to be removed. And get your hands off the Ukrainian land!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u232	Please, Mr. Gregory. I understand 24 for confirmation, right, correction? Please, Mr. Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u233	First of all, I want to say that it's not your authority, it's our authority. Her people have chosen and we are with you. This time. And second, Oleg, I want to say that here, once again, I want to tell you that I am not for selling land. And if you were at parliamentary hearings, you heard what I said. There are no conditions for sales today. But the other question, there's no word in this bill, I don't know what you're talking about. Or you haven't read it, this bill, and if you've read it, I don't know how.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u234	Thank you, colleagues. So I'm betting on confirmation of 24 amendments. The committee supported her, and the committee is offering to support her. Who supports the 24th amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[13:59:01]] For-153 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, it's 2 p.m. I'm continuing for 15 minutes. But if we go at that rate, we can still discuss it for an hour. So, colleagues, I'm addressing a committee representative. Maybe there's a point, like with the previous law, to re-read? It doesn't make sense anymore, does it? All right, we'll come up with all the suggestions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, then make an offer from the rostrum so we don't take half an hour. Please, Gregory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u235	After so many articles have changed and the amendments have not been taken into account, it does not make sense to approve. So I ask you to vote for the second reading again, send it to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u236	We still have four adjustments left. And I'm going to give you some more of those amendments: Timoshenko is one minute; Pinzenic is one minute. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u237	Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Well, first of all, I want to disprove the insidious lie that ever the Fatherland Party was for selling agricultural land, that we have in all the programming principles, all the documents clearly stipulate that we are against selling agricultural land that is not good, not bad technology or any other law. With regard to the memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, as Prime Minister, I insisted on buying rations from peasants by the state at market prices. If a person wanted to sell pie, I insisted that only the state and only the state would have to buy it at the market price. As long as I'm in politics and the Fatherland party, we've always been against selling agricultural land, because it's ridiculous and it's not state-owned, and it's economical.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u238	Colleagues, there are three adjustments left. 30 revisions. [[B in m in s a l in]] We haven't voted it out yet? Colleagues, let's define a comprehensive list: 25 revisions for confirmation, then Easy 35th, Kulinic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u239	I know, I know yours. So let's put the first one on the 25th for confirmation, then the Easy, then the Culinic. Okay, first. 25 for confirmation. Do I get it right? Yes. So I'm betting on confirming the 25th amendment. The 25th amendment was supported by the committee. And I invite you to support her. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please, 25 revisions. The committee's asking her to support it. [[2:02:22]] For-164 The decision is not made. I'm going to give my word in stages anyway, because there's a lot of hands in the room. The 35th Baby, then the Culinic, then the Culinary. [[B in m in s a l in]] Next 27th Ivchenka, right? Let's go, first, 27th, then 34th. 27th, Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u240	Tymoshenko, the Fatherland Party. I'm asking you to make 27 amendments to the people's MP Kulinich for confirmation, because we can't accept this amendment, and this law. Once again, I want to make it very clear that this law, it provides for a hidden sale of agricultural land. I want to tell all the deputies right now that Ukraine has started a massive propaganda wave that convinces Ukrainian society that selling agricultural land is a good thing. I want to tell you that all the democratic, civilized and developed Western countries have already stopped selling agricultural land. They've been digging the agricultural land back into the state for the last 10 years. And these are strategies for smart countries because they're betting on small farms and they're creating millions of jobs, and we want to sell these priceless ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u241	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u242	They want to sell priceless Ukrainian lands to crooks and mobsters, monopolists who simply stop thinking about agriculture in general and about farmers earning their money on this earth. These will be the great monopolies that our Blacklands will destroy in years. Stop this fraud! Remove the Law from consideration!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, I just want you to hear the logic right now. The committee itself is proposing a second reading. Why do we continue to place all the changes, fellow workers, on confirmation? Let's stop a little bit, because it's starting to sound like a non-legislative process. I will now give my word to whom I have promised. On the 28th, Oleg Lazko. Then there's Kulinich. And then we move on to making a decision. Please, 28th. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u244	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Julia Timoshenko and the lie are two of her own sisters. Mrs. Timoshenko, as Prime Minister, is signing a Memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, and today she says she is not against selling land. Mrs. Timoshenko, as Prime Minister, is signing a $560 per thousand gas agreement with Putin, and today she says $100 per gas. Mrs. Timoshenko, as Prime Minister, blocked the decision in Parliament to condemn Russian aggression against Georgia, urged Ukraine not to defend the Crimea in 2014, not to provoke Putin, but today she tells us that she is protecting the country. I propose that we stop lying to people and take one position regardless of whether they are in power or opposition. It's radical.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u245	Oleg Valeriyovich, correct, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u246	The radical party has always been, is, and will be against the sale of land. Because the sale of Ukrainian land is a robbery of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u247	Oleg Valeriyovich, a colleague, this has nothing to do with the law-making work, a colleague. I'll give you a line, I'll give you a line. Colleagues, I ask you now, the last two lines and we move on to the vote. I ask you to remain in the hall, and I ask you to return to the legislative process and the law. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u248	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Still, I would like to put this bill in second reading and in general. And I'd like to make it clear. This isn't about any corporation at all. The committee is made up of experts, he's made decisions, everyone's backed up. What are we talking about? In order to create a farm, we need to rent land. This land is leased by a natural person, and then this natural person registers a legal person, this farm. And then there's the imbalance, the land on the physical person, and the taxes, the accounting, all the work on the legal person. And we're giving the opportunity within this farm, once again, within the limits of doing this procedure and transforming this land from a natural to a legal person. What corporation? What shadow market? What are you talking about, colleagues? I ask you to support this bill and put it in a second reading, and in general, Andrew Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u249	Okay. Please, Timoshenko, and then, please. I don't see a last name very well.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u250	Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland. The great trouble and problem of our nation, which is very few in the nation's position, in the position of the people, in the position of statehood. For bribes, for their own authority, for some portions of the money in the budget, unfortunately politicians are willing to trade in Ukraine, its strategic interests, the strategic interests of the Ukrainians, it is a pity. And that's why I want to stress once again, before any way of pushing and pushing the sale of agricultural land, first hold a popular referendum, sell agricultural land or not. I'm sure 99 percent of people will say no. It's different. Have a public social debate where all pros and cons will be displayed, and don't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u251	Gudzenko, please, one minute. Colleagues, two closing remarks and a vote, I'll give it to you in a minute. Please, Gudzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u252	Gudzenko, 92 constituency. First of all, if the farmer doesn't have an education, let's go ahead and adopt such a law that teachers and doctors don't have a higher education, that's the first. Second, we'll finally split the farmers. We speak against farmers who have received land free of charge and are now separated from the family. And there are so many villages that don't actually have people drinking that, you know what we're doing? I talked to my colleagues, they don't know who the farmer is. There is a farmer who has constant use and does not pay any taxes, but there are farmers who actually pay taxes. Perhaps you should first explain to the people who are farmers. To whom we will give the land, among our families. There is a village in the village of Zerna Bilocerkow district that has no food, and there are six farmers free of charge who have land and do not pay taxes for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u253	Yvchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u254	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, after the state registration of farm land leases, how many are thousands, 100,000 or 200,000? Given by the founder, they can be transformed into farming. There's no specifics, there's no specifics on what you're saying if it's a family farm. That's the first one. The other one. And you said that you put forests, five hectares, you said that Pamzanov's law says that you can bring forests, five hectares, and water objects up to three hectares? Did you say that? So, colleagues, I propose that this law be rejected at all. And let's create a normal law with an association that will allow us to develop an entrepreneurial environment in the countryside, develop small and small businesses and give way to a family and small farmers, as we talked about in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u255	Colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Labazuk, very short, 30 seconds, and let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u256	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! It is a pity that most MPs have not read the bill, but they have not. There's not a word about selling the land or even hinting at it. The bill is a professional committee. He was unanimously supported by all of them. And some of the colleagues who are now speaking out here, and they're creating a political issue about this topic, most likely not talking to the farmers, to the one-persons. And why today, in order to create a farm, higher education? A simple uncle in the country is eager to create a farm and produce to provide for his family. This bill is needed today, so let's put it to a vote and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u257	Is there a need for a closing word? Please, Gregory Mikhailovich. And colleagues, we're taking up jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u258	Dear colleagues! Once again, 60 percent of farmers have no education. Today in Ukraine, 60 percent and more are not all statistics. The other one. Again, Oleg, I want to see you. There is no sale of hidden land here. It's a cool bill that gives people the right to have farming, you want to form a legal person, you want to stay, the law is passed, you don't have to. Dear colleagues, please think about this. You cut the first bill today. I fully agree that there are many questions. There's no questions here, we've cleaned up everything we could. Since 2015, this bill has been regulated four times. So I invite you all to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u259	Colleagues. Comrades, the hour is up. I gave my word to everyone. I have no right to continue this session. All the amendments that were proposed, I put them on confirmation. Now we're moving on to making a decision, colleagues. So, colleagues, I'll put it in sequence: first the committee's proposal, and then the committee's proposal for a second reading. I ask you to determine by voting. I went through everyone, I read the changes that were rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now I'm going to put the 27th on confirmation and then we're going to make a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? Tell me, what other 27th?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m0.u260	Okay. I'll put 27th, 31st and 32nd on confirmation. [[B in m in s a l in]] 27th, 30th, 31st for confirmation, 32nd for confirmation, 33rd for confirmation. So whoever supports this amendment for confirmation, I ask you to vote. The committee asks for my amendments. Please vote. It's not a law yet, it's to confirm the amendment. [[14:15:07]] For-154 The decision is not taken. And, colleagues. [[Noise Nodes]] Well, colleagues, listen, the committee. Attention! The committee suggests that the second reading be rereaded, which makes sense. And I'm betting on re-reading. What's the point of what you're doing now? Colleagues, I'm putting the proposal made by a committee representative to read again. Let's make a decision and stop this circus. Colleagues, I'm putting a motion to vote: to re-read the draft Act (number 2028a) amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. for the second reading again. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[14:16:26]] For 212 Guys, I'm gonna go back. Please enter the hall who is. I'll be right back. Please, colleagues, I'll be back in a moment. If there are voices, we'll come back if we don't, the bill will be rejected. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to 2028a. Everybody in place? Please vote. Please be supportive. Return, and I'll put the second one back. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[14:17:20]] For 206 No votes. Thus, Law 2028a was rejected. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 4 p.m., everyone to the conference room to continue our work.
