ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Time spent for a break is over. Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, are the colleagues ready to register? I see they're already in the hall. And please turn on the " Rada" system. And I'd like the National Deputies to sign up. Colleagues, please register. [[16:09:06]] 359 deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. So, honourable colleagues, as I was saying before lunch, we still have questions about information, second reading, two bills. The first is 4685, the next is 4159. Colleagues, there's a lot of rights here, so I'm asking the authors to prepare for the discussion. We are moving on to the draft Law on Electronic Trust Services (No. 4685). And I invite the head of the Committee on Informatics and Communications of Danchenk Alexander Ivanovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Good afternoon, Mr. Head. The Committee on Information and Communications, commissioned by the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 20 September 2016, discussed at its meeting on 15.12.2016 the draft Law on Electronic Trust Services (Registration No. 4685), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a second reading. The bill, adopted in the first reading, had 448 rights, of which 185 were counted by the committee, 105 in editorial form, 28 in part, 130 in rejected. The amended draft law takes into account the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which were made available before the first reading, including on the structure of the bill. The bill is as close as possible to European Union legislation in the field of electronic trust services, which is a major step towards integrating our digital economy with the economies of the European Union. Among the novels of the bill: a transparent procedure for obtaining the status of provider of electronic trust services, a clear delimitation of powers of authority, an independent conformity assessment procedure for providers of such services, and the possibility of using them in their activities both national and international standards. I would like to remind you that, in line with the conclusion of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption, there are no corruption factors in the draft act, and the draft act meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. The bill provides a transitional period for the existing business "Finally" and "Transitional Positions" that take effect one year from the date of its publication. In addition, existing accredited key certification centres are automatically placed by the central certifying authority on the trust list, and electronic digital signatures and enhanced public key certificates are used before they expire. I want to say that this bill, supported by the European Parliament, the European Union, is fully in line with the directives of the European Union, which actually opens the beginning of the digital era in Ukraine, is the first step towards building a digital economy. Services such as BankID, MobileID, will be available to all Ukrainian citizens after the adoption of this bill. This is a Euro-integration project. Please support this bill. In view of the above, the committee approved recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Electronic Trust Services (Registration No. 4685) on second reading and generally as a committee law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u3	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u4	Also under the stenogram. It is suggested that the following comments be taken into account by the legal authorities. Part two of article 14 of the bill after the words "international treaties of Ukraine" should be supplemented by the words "on electronic trust services". In section VII, paragraph 6, “To the End” and “Transitional Positions”, the bill replaces the word “implementation of the law” with the words “increasing the law”. Please support me, please start digitizing the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u5	Thank you. I ask you to prepare for the discussion. So 1st, Mushak. Don't insist. 5th, Bondar. Don't insist. 7th, Danchenko. Don't insist. 14th, Muschak. Don't insist. 17th, Vanat. Don't insist. 18th, Muschak. Don't insist. 20th, Muschak. Don't insist. 22nd, Muschak. Don't insist. 23rd, Muschak. Don't insist. 28th, Muschak. Don't insist. 31st, Muschak. Don't insist. 44th, Danchenko. Don't insist. 46th, Semenha. Don't insist. 52nd, Muschak. He insists. Please, Muschak, 52 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to this bill. In fact, it is extremely good and quality designed by the committee. It's done quite a bit, if I'm not mistaken, about 200 amendments, most of which are included. And it's really a breakthrough for the Ukrainian economy, it's really a breakthrough for a human state, a human business, a human human being. So I ask him to support me as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u7	Thank you. Let's move on. I'd like to ask. Turn on the microphone. Mr. Muschak, don't they insist on any? I'm just missing them. Nice, yeah, when they read the last name, plus. 85th. Don't insist. 86th, Dove. Don't insist. 87th, Danchenko. Don't insist. The '90s, Dove. Don't insist. 93rd Semenha. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u8	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, indeed, the law is very important and allows Ukraine to implement a new model of electronic digital signature services, which will be fully in line with the practice of the European Union. Creating the right conditions for the cross-border use of electronic digital signatures for Ukrainian business citizens and their partners in the European Union. The possibility of receiving public services in electronic form not only in Ukraine but also in the countries of the European Union through BankID, MobileID. In this regard, please pay attention to my personal data protection policy. The amendment clarifies article 3 of the bill, stating that in the event of a dispute involving the protection of personal data of subjects in the field of electronic trust services, the right of the State to locate the users of such services is subject to application. And it's still a very important point "if the level of this protection is no less than that provided by the legislation of the member states of the European Union." Colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u9	Thank you, Roman Sergiyovich. This amendment was rejected because part four was excluded by another amendment and because the said provision was not subject to the legal regulation of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u10	Do you insist on voting? The author insists. And that's why I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 93 people's deputies of Semimenha. The committee didn't support her. Those who support Amendment 93, please vote. Please. [[16:17:39]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Most rights are taken into account, and that's very positive. I see that. 124th, Levechenko. He insists. Please. 124th. Lechenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u11	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Paragraph 1 of part two of article 9 does not harmonize with paragraph 1 of part seven of article 9, which states that the list of electronic trust services defined in parts one and two of this article is not exhaustive. Under such circumstances, it is appropriate in part two of article 9, paragraph 1, to establish that the list of guaranteed trust services is not exhaustive. If I simplify what I just said, the point is that one part of the bill says that the list of electronic trust services is not exhaustive, and the other part has a specific comprehensive list. So it's appropriate to add the words "and other services" in this other part. In addition to legal technology, it is, in principle, logical and in terms of the importance of this bill, because in fact, there may be other areas of application than those in this exhaustive list. And given that, indeed, this is a very important bill that opens the door to new economic approaches, it would still be worth opening up the opportunity for other services, not just those listed in this particular exhaustive list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u12	Thank you for your work. I want to say that this proposal has been rejected and not taken into account because of the fact that this list is approved by Regulation No 910 of 2014 of the European Union. And there's a full list of all the rights in this Rules. We can't make it, it's going to go against European legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u13	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 124 People's Deputies of Lechchenk, and the committee didn't support it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:20:10]] Z-85 85-yes. The decision is not made. Next. 136, Bondar. Don't insist. 139th, Danchenko. Don't insist. 141th, Bondar. Don't insist. 162nd Semenha. Don't insist. 200th, Danchenko. Don't insist. 202. Don't call. 202, Semenha. Don't call me no more, okay? Okay. I'm not calling your amendments. Colleagues, let's go another way. Which one of the authors of the amendments insists on another? So I only raised my hand to Yuri Lewchenko, do I understand? Only. So I don't delete all these pages. Then please turn on Mr. Yuri Lewchenk's microphone and let him make his adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u14	This is a 299 amendment, 299. In fact, it was about introducing an audit system, improving the audit system that was in the bill. But in principle, the second reading of the concept of an audit was ruled out completely and replaced by a conformity assessment, and such a conformity assessment could completely replace an audit and, in principle, an approach to order and execution corresponded to the ideas of my amendment. And so I don't insist on voting, I just want to point out in the context of the previous, previous amendment that this is a mistake that is very often happening in this room. We do not have to put our word into the legislation of the norms of other countries or alliances, particularly the European Union, because if they have something in particular that changes, we too have a quick opportunity to change. And so I suggested that in that list we write "and other services" instead of being tied to the European Union's standards. And yes, I don't insist on this amendment. In principle, my requirements are taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u15	Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u16	I would like to say that this is indeed a very nice observation and the editorial proposed by the committee corresponds to the position of the amendment's author, while the article is in line with articles 20 and 21 of the European Union Rules of Procedure No. 910/2014. And I want to say that there is a possibility that a rapid change to the date of this bill is possible, that is, there is a possibility. Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u17	Will you explain to me, put me to the vote? Don't you need to put it on? Because the chairman of the committee clarified the position. Colleagues, so we finished discussing the draft Law on Electronic Trust Services. I ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. One minute, the closing word is Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich. Then we move on to the decision-making process and I ask the secretariat to let everyone know that we will be making decisions in a minute or two, to vote. Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u18	Dear colleagues! The bill, which deals with all factions, a bill supported by Europe, a bill supported by the Office for European Integration, opens a new era of truly digital economy in the state. You just need to know that we have about 55 million GSM cards, about 40 million bank cards, this is a huge market, this is the rise of our economy. I'm addressing my colleagues, I'm addressing factions' heads, invite MPs to the hall, support this bill, this is the way to Europe, the way to digitize the state. Please come into the hall, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u19	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, please come into the hall, please invite the deputies into the hall. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Electronic Trust Services (No. 4685) for a second reading committee and in general. All factions supported, all speakers pointed to the importance of this bill, so please vote, please support 4685 in the second reading and in general. Let's vote, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[16:25:41]] For-187 Please turn on the factions. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the National Deputies Hall. Now we have two choices: either we put the second one again, or we put the vote back. Please advise the head of the committee whether to return or bet on the second. Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u20	I'd like to go to the National Deputies and invite as many of your colleagues as possible, who are now in the towers. I'd like to go to all those who really want to support the economy of this state who wants to live in a new way. Because it's a digital age, the whole world is far ahead of us, and we can't, I'm sorry, gather the people's deputies into the hall! I am very much asking you to return the people's deputies to the Hall and return to the consideration of this bill. It's a Euro-integration, it's an economy! And unfortunately, we're just talking about, let's build a new economy. All we can do is, I'm sorry, dig coal and transport it. I am very much asking you to go back and look back at this bill, a dutiful bill. The economy, the strong economy, the strong state, the European integration. Please come back and put it on the way back.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u21	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm going to put the vote back on the table, if there are no votes, then I'm going to put the next sentence on the second reading. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote, now I'm putting my first motion to vote, to go back to the second reading, and to the entire draft Law on Electronic Trust Services. Please mobilize, and I propose to vote back to the second reading vote and to the entire draft Law on Electronic Trust Services. Please vote and please support, colleagues, please vote. Please vote, please support, vote. [[16:29:00]] For 209 Let's give it another minute for the MPs. Please, the chairman of the committee insists that we can accept it in a second reading. Give the committee head another minute, please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, before this bill, none of the factions had any comments. I'm asking very much "Paternity," and I'm asking very many factions who are not voting to confirm their desire to build a new country right now. This is just the chance when we can start building a new country, stop living in a raw economy. The 480 rights were submitted to this bill. All the changes have been made. I want to remind you that this bill was successfully voted in the last Cabinet of Ministers, but then it got to the second round of Parliament. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support me. The bill, which for the state, there are no political games between anyone. A very important bill. Besides, it gives us Euro-Integration, listen to this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u23	Please, 30 seconds and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u24	This bill creates new jobs for our aitish companies, for software companies in general, creating a new digital service market. How can we now, when we want it to be a strong economy, fight with you for every new job, how can we now refuse to create many thousands of jobs, how can we do that? Once again, I ask those who do not vote to vote in favour of Ukraine. This bill is good, it is European. Please support European integration, please support the new economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u25	Thank you. Colleagues, so I'll put it back. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] There is, there is Musak. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please take up your jobs. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I'm going to ask you once again to go back to the debate. Proposals for a committee to accept in the second reading and in general. So, colleagues, take up jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the committee's proposal to adopt the draft Law on Electronic Trust Services (room 4685) on second reading and in general. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[16:33:05]] For 206 And I'm going to put the next vote: the second reading again. I understand she's being supported, right? So, colleagues, please take up jobs, prepare for the vote. And I'm putting to the vote the draft Law on Electronic Trust Services (number 4685) for re-reading. Please support us not to lose the bill and the great copyright work of the copyright team. Please vote, please support the second reading 4685. Let's vote, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[16:34:03]] For 244 Decision taken. Obviously, work needs to be done. We'll get him in the morning as soon as possible, Mr. Alexander. You don't go, the next one is your bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u26	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u27	Okay. So, colleagues, the decision is made. Draft Law 4685 is re-reading. And I'm going to consider the next draft of the Law (4159) on access to buildings, transport, and electricity for the purpose of developing telecommunications networks. This is also a second reading, colleagues. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Informatics of Danchenk Alexander Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u28	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! On September 20, 2016, the draft registration number 4159 was adopted by the Supreme Council in its first reading. The bill proposes to regulate relations at the legislative level related to the establishment of the only legal framework for access and use of infrastructure for the development of telecommunications networks to meet the needs of consumers of telecommunication services and the development of information society in Ukraine. In preparing for the second reading of the bill, most of the comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration were taken into account, 105 amendments by the people's deputies were taken into account, 220 were taken into account in an editorial manner, and 31 were taken into account in part. Most of the amendments taken into account relate to the establishment of powers of public authorities, including with regard to the development and approval of rules on access to appropriate infrastructure, requirements for the placement of technical means of telecommunications on infrastructure elements. In preparation for today’s consideration of the bill, meetings and many agreed questions were held. I want to speak to you, dear fellows, we have now failed with you to launch a digital revolution in the state. This bill, it provides development, boom for the development of the Internet in all cities, villages of Ukraine. You now know that, given that the issues between the sectors are not taken into account, energy companies, JCGs, and other infrastructure objects are very often unable to develop telecommunications companies. On the other hand, the telecommunications sector is also misused, and in some cases illegal, it uses the energy infrastructure and the HKG. This bill deals with all issues of access to all sectors. Six months ago, the UN recognized the fundamental right of everyone on our planet — the right to the Internet. Besides having a war, not an ATO, we have a war, it's very important that all of our citizens, all of our citizens, get information, true information. Failure to accept this bill, or someone who does not support it, will be on the side of those people in whom the Russian Federation is interested. They are not interested in each person in our country having honest information, transparent information. Also, in order for all the people of our nation to get digital services to build a digital economy, every person must.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u29	Please let me finish for 30 seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u30	Every person should have access to high-speed Internet. It's not just fixed Internet, it's about mobile Internet development, 3G networks and 4G networks that we should be able to do as soon as possible. Mobile operators do not hang in the air to connect them, and they need to build optical circuits. This is very important. And now 3G operators can't get full licensing because they don't have access to many objects.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u31	Are you done, Mr. Alexander? Yes. Dear colleagues, the head of the profile committee remains in the rostrum. We're about to move on to the amendments. We're moving on to the amendments to this bill. Amendment number six, People's Deputy Levchenka. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Okay. Amendment No. 11 of the People's Deputy of Seminy. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Correction number 15, Semenha. No, it's not. I can see the hand you're lifting, you can see it from here. 37th Semenha. No, it's not. 40th, Danchenko. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 41st, Sverk National MP. Are you insisting on 41 amendments? Scroak doesn't insist. Let's move on, fellows. Amendment number 63, Semenha. Don't insist. Amendment 72, Martovitchki. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Repair 74, Semenha. Don't insist. 88th, I was walking. Don't insist. 102nd, Walking. Don't insist. Here are really almost all the amendments, respected colleagues, counted as said by the head of the profiling committee. 134th, Semenha. Don't insist. Let's move on. 175th, Sverk. Scroak doesn't insist. 210th, Danchenko. Don't insist. 211th, Walking. Don't insist. 226th, Walking. Don't insist. What's that? 263rd People's Deputy Martovicki. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's counted. National MP Lewchenko believes that 238 amendments are out of the question. Please turn on the microphone to the national deputy Lehchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u32	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. 238 amendments, written in part. It's not really counted at all. The proposal for an access contract raises the issue of the use of foreign property, which by nature belongs to leases, leases. And that's why the draft access agreement contains the signs of a contract of lease or lease of property, and that's why it's a type of contract that's mixed with the elements of the lease. Therefore, the position of the draft access contract should be consistent with the requirements of the applicable legislation regarding the rental of property. At the same time, taking into account the specificity of the arrangement of the lease of property, depending on the property and property subject itself, in particular the project should take into account the requirements of the relevant provisions of the Civil and Land Codes of Ukraine, the Land Rental Act of Ukraine, and in the case of State or municipal leases, the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Rental. My amendment is that, in fact, it should be stated that this is happening in accordance with the Civil Code, the Land Code, the Land Rental Act, and so on, because it is, in fact, a lease of property or a lease of property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u33	Thank you for explaining your position. Dear colleagues, according to the insistence of the People’s Deputy Levchenk, the amendment to its No. 238 applies to the voting room. Please vote. [[16:43:12]] For the 120th. As long as we're moving along the table, then there'll be comments by those colleagues who haven't been able to sound them. 263rd National Deputy Martovitchki. Don't insist. 266th, Walking. Don't insist. 275, Dove, National Deputy. Don't insist. 277th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. Semenha, 278th. Don't insist. Martovitch, 283rd. Don't insist. Semenha, 290. Don't insist. Walked, 305th. Don't insist. 313, Semenha. Don't insist. 314th Semenha. Don't insist. 315th, Semenha. Don't insist. 317, Semenha. Don't insist. 318th Semenha. Don't insist. 319, Semenha. Don't insist. 323rd, Martovitchki. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u34	Honorary colleagues, setting limits is contrary to the principles of methodological development. — Part Five, article 18. Access fee should take into account all additional costs of the owner of the object according to the formulas set by the method. This bill is an intervention in the constitutional competence of public authorities, since regulated prices are set by the Cabinet of Ministers or ministries or by national regulators. Moreover, the provision of Internet services is an entrepreneurial activity. If the state does not control the income of the providers, why should it artificially fix their expenses at a certain level, including at the expense of others. Please put to the vote and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u35	Thank you for explaining your position. Dear colleagues, according to the insistence of the national MP Martovitch, his amendment is put to the vote. Please identify yourself with regard to this initiative. [[16:45:48]] For-93 Your offer has been rejected, Your Honor. Let's move on. Amendment 333 of Simeoniah’s national deputy was partially taken into account. He insists. 333rd. [[B in m in s a l in]] And of course, you said 333, so that's what I sound like. 331th, this is the amendment of the Danchenk People's Deputy. It was partly accounted for by this amendment of yours. Your colleague, the national deputy of Semimenach, insists on her confirmation. Please turn on the Semensi microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u36	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, this is indeed almost a revolutionary law, it is not the first attempt to systematically address the issue of the relationship between infrastructure objects. One of the issues that I would like to raise today is the question of setting an upper limit to be paid by fixed - circuit operators to local self - government authorities or other homeowners. So on the committee, unfortunately, during the preparation for the second reading, I don't, in principle, agree, because this law, despite all its undisputedly innovative ideas, should not be at the expense of or at the expense of local self-government. So I insist on this direction, which will allow, if it is not taken into account, increase, repeat, not duty, but the ability of operators to pay more to local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u37	Thank you. Please take the position of head of the profile committee. Please. And the author of this amendment, Alexander Danchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u38	I want to say that we have to be neutral in every field and that one sector cannot be financed at the expense of another sector. This is contrary to an equal relationship in the economy. Now there are many illegal lines of communication that are not being paid or that go into the pockets, just into the pockets. Once the bill is introduced, local authorities will receive more legalization funds. So I just don't want to raise it that way, because someone is going to get more money. It's not marketable, it's wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u39	Thank you. Please, at the request of the People's Deputy of Semimenha, we're placing 331 amendments that the committee considered partially for confirmation, colleagues. Please make up your mind. [[16:48:46]] For-103 I didn't get the support you needed, my respectable colleague. And we're moving on. 333rd. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u40	To save time, I also want to put it on confirmation right now, because 333 is supposed to be written in a comparative table that is counted, but I want to put on confirmation as 332th, 333rd, 334th, subject of regulation the same thing that I reported in the previous speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u41	Then we shall vote in an orderly manner, at the request of National Deputy Seminya, 332 amendments, please, for confirmation. [[16:49:41]] For 105 105 votes. 333rd. For confirmation. [[16:49:58]] For-84 Please, 334th for confirmation, we're voting now. The decision was not taken, we now vote 334. [[16:50:16]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Next. 343, Martovitch People's Deputy Amendment. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u42	Dear colleagues! This rule is aimed at establishing unjustified restrictions on economic activity, which violates the prohibition of economic legislation on unwarranted overriding government regulation of entrepreneurial relations. Two of my 323rd and 343rd amendments, if they're not supported, the law is generally impossible to support in the second reading, because its provisions for an access agreement do not meet the requirements of valid legislation. And this amendment, please put on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u43	Thank you for your clarification. And at the request of the People’s Deputy of the Martovian Amendment 343 the vote is put to the vote. Please, colleagues. [[16:51:27]] For-82 82 were supported only by national deputies. Your amendment is not accepted. 348, People's Chamberlain. And we voted for her. Sorry about 334. What about 348? No, it's not. I hear we'll be right back. Semenach’s national deputy asks to return to amendment 344, which has been partially counted. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u44	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, today the telecoms sector is one of too many economic sectors that continues to grow, continues to create jobs, pay a lot of taxes to the Ukrainian budget. However, one of the keys to stability and further growth in the sector should be the involvement of the investment in a permanent way and the rules of the game for business were understood. And my right is to double it, now it's proposed for a year, and I propose to increase it to two years, make it permanent to pay by contract, for access to any infrastructure that will definitely contribute to increasing the investment attractiveness of the TV cell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u45	The position is clear. Please, colleagues who support this novel, please vote in favour of this amendment, 344th, we vote. [[16:53:04]] For 118 Unfortunately, only 118 votes. Your amendment is not supported. Let's move on. In 348, we've already made a sound. 349. I told you, you said no amendments. 348th. Okay. 348, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u46	Semenha Roman, Self-help faction. Dear colleagues, with this right, I would like to draw your attention to a proposal that, unfortunately, did not find consensus and the majority on the Committee with the regulator. In fact, what is being suggested? It is proposed that the dispute between the various subjects proposed to bind NHRIs to be an arbitrator in these disputes be brought to justice. Indeed, the experience of the developed countries of the European Union suggests that the vast majority of disputes today are resolved by appropriate national regulators. By the way, it would also significantly decompose and increase the effectiveness of the Ukrainian judicial system. At the same time, I would like to point out that it is very, very important to think about and support this amendment, which will allow for an effective way of resolving disputes in a trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u47	Thank you. Please vote for the 348th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Semimenha. [[16:54:32]] For-126 126 – a.k.a. The hall is not supported. Let's move on: 349th. 349th? She doesn't insist on Semenach. 350. Don't insist. 351st. Don't insist. 352. There is no insistence on the people's deputy of Semimenach. 354th. There is no insistence on the people's deputy of Semimenach. 355th. Don't insist. Don't you insist? Don't insist. Moving on: 358th. Don't insist. 359th is also Semimenah. Don't insist. 360th. Don't insist. 361, Danchenko. Don't insist. 362. 363, Semenha. Don't insist. Then we move on: 378, National Deputy Yvchenko. Its correction is taken into account, but it requires words to speak out on this amendment. Please, National Deputy Yvchenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u48	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Thank you for your word. First of all, I wanted to say that Fatherland supports this bill, a fairly important bill to address the issue of the location of telecommunications technology in order to ensure the development of information society. What do I like? I like that we finally have to settle the issues of access to distribution networks, we have to settle the question of how telecommunications will spread, the Kabin develops the rules, the owners of these networks develop technical conditions, and the local self-government authorities get the pay for telecommunications networks through certain distribution systems, there, LEPs or wells, and so on. And the main thing is that the new ones will now have special shields to guide the Internet through buildings and other telecommunications. That's why I consider this law to be a breakthrough, and the Fatherland faction supports it, and I don't insist on voting my bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u49	Your bill was taken into account by a committee, a distinguished colleague, and "Paternity" supports the bill well. Colleagues, we have literally three amendments left, there will be a vote in a few minutes, please return to the session room. Correction 391, Semenha. Don't insist. Then we had literally two amendments to confirm. 404, Semenha. Don't insist. And on 405, he insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u50	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, with this right I want to draw attention to today's gruesome problem in the telecommunications market as well as in the electricity market. In fact, in Ukraine today, a shameful phenomenon has spread in incredible form and volume, such as the theft of T.E.’s property, property damage, cable cuts, and so forth. We have actually organized crime groups today, which are active and very and very harmful not only to business, but primarily to end up with a consumer who is often unable to get quality and continuous active services. Therefore, with my permission, I propose to amend the Criminal Code, which will increase responsibility for the deliberate damage to the technical equipment of television commerce. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u51	Will you comment? Do you insist on voting? No, it doesn't. Dear colleagues, 406, Semimenach. Don't insist. And so we're done talking about the last amendment to the sixth. Colleagues, in two minutes we'll move on to making a decision. I very much ask all the national deputies to come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, invite deputies to the Hall and the factions’ heads to invite deputies to their seats. Now, please turn on Lechchenkov's microphone to announce the sixth amendment. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u52	Lewchenko, "Freedom" 223 District of Kiev. The point is that the term "consignor" used in the bill is not consistent with the terminology of the Ukrainian Civil Code. In many cases, projects use the term "consignor" for the construction of telecommunications networks, the purchaser for obtaining technical conditions from the owner and so on. But the presence of a party to the contract, which is a "consignor", implies the presence of the other party, the "executor". At the same time, by the legal nature of the relationship that is dealt with in the access agreement that is currently governed by the bill, these relations are the rental or rental of property and the parties to the contract are to be the lessor and the lessee. In this connection, my amendment is exactly what I propose to replace the term "consignor" with the term "employee," because the term "consignor" in the context of this bill is simply useless and contravenes the terminology of the Civil Code. It's actually going to be a certain conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u53	Thank you. Will you comment or put to the vote, Mr. Alexander? I'll bet you a vote. You insist on voting, don't you? I'm putting to the vote amendment number six of the national MP Lewchenk, whom the committee rejected. Whoever supports Amendment 6 please vote. Please. [[17:00:14]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, this is how we have concluded our discussion and move on to making a decision. Please ask everyone to take up their jobs. We're moving on to making a decision. During the discussion, in fact, all the national MPs and all the factions pointed out their support for the bill. And I'm asking you to take up jobs, prepare for the decision. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Access to Transport Construction, Electricity for the Development of Telecommunications Networks (No. 4159), the Committee's proposal, the second reading and the whole, the second reading and the whole. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:01:59]] For 214 Colleagues, I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. I'll put it back once. Please call the deputies to the hall. Invite MPs into the hall, heads of factions. I ask you to show me on the ballot board for the last time. Block of Petra Poshenko – 92, National Front – 52, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 21, Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka – 8, Parenthood – 18, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth – 0. Colleagues, I'll put it back on the table if there's no votes, and I'll put the next one on the second reading. Please mobilize.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u54	We'll be right back.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u55	So, are the colleagues ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to return to the proposal of a committee on the draft Law (4159) on access to buildings, transport, and electricity for the development of telecommunications networks. So I'm going to put the vote back on the committee's proposal. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? So please vote back to the committee's proposals. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:04:12]] For 240 240. We're back. And now I'm putting draft Law 4159 in second reading and in general, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, pay attention! Get to work! Go back to work. Please support in the second reading and in general 4,159. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:04:49]] For 246 246 — yes. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, I will now, with your permission, put to the vote once again a draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments of foreign states and international organizations to condemn the escalation of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine. I find it unacceptable that we were unable to mobilize voices by lunchtime. I ask you to come into the hall now, prepare for the vote. First, I'm going to put the day in order to make a decision. I ask everyone to take responsibility for this statement. Everyone please take up their jobs. It's a statement by the Supreme Council on the events in Java. And our duty to the boys on the front line to maximize our mobility -- and to demonstrate the Parliament's position loudly. So I'm voting on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda and for the decision of the draft Decree 6039. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:06:19]] For 245 245-yes. Decision taken. The draft decrees are included in the agenda. By factions, please turn on the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 99, "National Front" – 64, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 21, Radical Party Lachka – 15, "Fathership" – 20, "Will of the People" – 1, "Party "Resurrection"– 1. Colleagues, please support the proposal for a simplified procedure. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues, for a reduced procedure, please. [[17:07:04]] For 219 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zászczek Svetlana Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u56	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I'm going to the Supreme Council's Apparatus to show you the video that our Ukrainian military sent over so we can present it to the Supreme Council right now. Dear National MPs, distinguished journalists, I ask you to pay attention to this video. [[Video Record Preview]] This is one of the evidences of the armies and their actions in which the German ambassador today offered to give us an election at Donbassa. These are, in fact, direct evidence of the launch sites of the Towns, which are often in direct proximity to housing and to the civilian infrastructure of Donetsk. There's evidence that the geolocations where the Towns were located 200 meters from the Ashan hypermarket, 500 meters from the schools and from the residences. The choice of location shows that the lives of civilians have been deliberately threatened. In fact, Russian occupying forces were conducting targeted fires and throughout the school, including the number two school district, as well as the chemical stadium, where the life-sustainment site was opened. Civil objects were also fired at Marianz, Krasnogorovka, Galicinovka, Sartana. The Russian Federation's attacks on Audiowka are Moscow's war crimes, according to International Humanitarian Law. May I continue?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u57	Please continue for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u58	And in this Supreme Council decree, we turn to relevant international organizations to investigate war crimes and crimes against humanity. In particular, we refer to our Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine in order to ensure that the relevant evidence, investigated by both our legal guardians and by international public organizations, is referred to the International Criminal Court, which is already examining evidence of the direct involvement of the Russian leadership in the solution and war against Ukraine. Dear colleagues, also last week an emergency meeting of the Security Council of the United Nations was held, parliamentary assemblies adopted appropriate decisions both by NATO and by the Council of Europe as well as by international governments. We analyzed these statements. And despite certain fears, I must say that we have received the full support of Ukraine in its struggle against escalation in the east.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u59	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u60	Thus, in this decree, we appeal to the parliaments of the world, as well as to international organizations, to stop the escalation in the east and to end the war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u61	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the foreign affairs of Hopeko Hanna Mikolayivna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u62	Dear Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs! I would like to thank all the initiators of this Order to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments of foreign states and international organizations for condemning the escalation of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine. This is the next step that the Ukrainian Parliament is taking in order to step up all diplomatic efforts to, first, stop escalation, strengthen international presence, in particular representatives of various international organizations, also to strengthen our trials against Russia as an aggressor state in order to actually establish peace, so long-awaited, in eastern Ukraine. So I would like to urge you to vote now. My colleagues from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Svetlana Zalitschuk, on European integration issues Maria Ionova, Irina Heraszczenko, thank you for preparing this Address, as well as Viktor Ivanovich Vuka, Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich, many others. And thank all the deputies who actively participate in the various Parliamentary Assemblyes of the Council of Europe, NATO, the OSCE and join in the efforts and international policies that Ukraine is now trying to prove its subjectivity and defend our positions. So I would like to urge you to vote now. This morning, the committee held a meeting where members of the committee unanimously voted in favour of the decision. And we hope that this call to the parliaments of the world, as well as international organizations, will help save lives in the East. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u63	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Mustafa Najem. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, I would like to keep in mind who caused what happened in the city to happen, not only the Russian occupying forces that shot at our cities, but also to thank all the military forces that were in the city these days, the military administration that provided full humanitarian assistance to all the inhabitants of the city, including volunteers, journalists and all those who were there, or who provided humanitarian aid from Kiev, our colleague Olzi Cervakovi, who gathered here in Kiev, our deputies who gathered in various cities. In particular, I want to thank the National Police, which in Donetsk, in the Donetsk region, kept order, and you know that in the city of Audiov, they kept order, including at hot spots. I want to thank the school number four, which is now closest to the prom zone, and which has been working all these days, providing heat in its own way. For their citizens. In particular, I would like to say that there are still schools in the city today, and many schools still need gasoline. If you have the possibility, please supply gasoline, because only generators are now providing heat in these buildings. And I think we all have one thing to say right now that Audio shows, even though we're surprised at this attack, we're ready to do that, and if we are the only ones together, we can still deal with these problems without panic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u65	Thank you. Please, Igor Lucenko of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction fully and completely supports such a determination, we will all vote in favour. Now, I literally came back from the front yesterday, and I'll tell you the next thing, soldiers really need our help with you. You know, they've been holding this colossal load of war for months and some of them have been wearing it for years. And perhaps the hardest thing about this is that it's not even the Russian Towns, even though they're taking lives, they're taking the health of our fighters and civilians. Probably the hardest psychological thing for them is that they don't always understand their struggle here in Kiev, they're not always supported by political intubation, they're not always heard. This moment is now the moment when we, Parliament, hear them when we help them fight and when we continue our own struggle as it should be. We have to fight on the ideological propaganda front, we have to explain again and again to the world what is really going on in the east, what is really going on there is Russian aggression, not civil war, what is really going on in the Russian army and on their teams is these attacks that are now being demonstrated to us. So to ensure the unity of the political summit and those who are now in the trenches, that means to vote in favour of this determination now, that means to support our fighters who are willing to do everything we can to be here in Kiev, to be on their side and to understand them and to support them in their sacrifices. We vote in favour. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u67	Thank you. Yegor Sobolev, Self-help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u68	Self-help will vote for this appeal. But we wanted to ask our colleagues to understand that asking for help was the same result as being deeply concerned about deep anxiety. There are very good words in this decree about armed aggression, occupation, the responsibility of Russia as an aggressor country. We have a great request and an appeal to the entire Parliament: let's translate those words into our laws, let's pass a law that will call occupation an occupation that will legally hold Russia responsible for all violations of the rights of our citizens occupied in the territory it occupied, and legally puts on Russia all responsibility for destroying infrastructure. And another thing we talked about this morning is that these attacks that we saw in the video are financed, including from the territory of Ukraine, by trade in occupied areas. The terrible truth is that each of us, when we turn on light and then pay the electricity bill, is funding DNR and LNR, occupied areas where the attacks are being prepared and where the shootings are taking place. So Self-Help is asking the Speaker of Parliament and all the political forces that are in Ukraine and in this Parliament this week to pass the Law on the Interimly Occupied Territory of Ukraine to ban trade and to place the responsibility on Russia for this occupation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u69	Igor Mikhailovich storm from the opposition block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u70	Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block. You know, what's been shown on the screens right now, you've all seen it with your own eyes, and everyone can conclude. In all the speeches, the words "aggression," anything you want, "military action," I have a question why we can't call war a war. If this is war, let's call it war and we'll make all our decisions in an entirely different legislative field. For the situation with Ukraine to have a logical outcome, we need an international response. And this response from the international community will be adequate if balanced, motivated and reasonable conclusions of the Ukrainian politics are reached. What do we have today? Think of the characteristics of our Presidential political candidate for the presidency of the United States. Did anyone apologize for resigning? Nobody. Remember the hysteria that was around Le Penn? Everyone screamed not to let us go to Ukraine, but today, which is already being released because it became the first in the ranking? Today, calls are always being made in this decision, and, look, the ambassador of Germany in Ukraine is forcing us to give, make elections there. So I turn to the Ukrainian politics, people good, let's read the interview carefully, read carefully what the Ambassador of Germany said in Ukraine. I'm not his lawyer, but I'm for things to be called their names. And if someone turns it into an emotional plane and wants to produce what they want for real, it's going to lead to Ukraine being self-insulated and we're going through self-destruction. I urge everyone to be very careful with the accent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u71	From the Radical Party, Linko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u72	Dmitry Linko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. We certainly support, I think the Ukrainian Parliament supports this decision and will ask all the nations of the world to condemn this aggression. But how many times has everyone been condemned, how many times does the OSCE express its concern about the shootings? For three years, everyone condemns and worries, but not by concern and condemnation, today, the Russian forces hold back, but by our weapons, our army, which stands on the forerunner, which bears the loss that protects Ukraine. Therefore, the Ukrainian Parliament, in order to help our army, must not take a plea to condemn it, and we must demand the signatory countries of the Budapest Memorandum -- the United States of America, Britain, France -- to sign direct military contracts for Ukraine, for which they must support the Ukrainian army, for which they must fulfil their obligations, which they made when we made nuclear weapons. They're supposed to help us in the military, they're supposed to help us with weapons, that's what we need today. And the Ukrainian Parliament must draw up such a decree and turn to the leadership of these states as required.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u73	Thank you, you. From the non-fractional, one minute, Andrew Illenko and we go to the vote. Oh, I'm sorry, stop. Excuse me, People's Front, then non-factional. From the People's Front, Tetjana Blackwall, two minutes. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u74	I want to point out here that there is an army fighting in Java. The army. Thank her so much for protecting Ukraine. The army is fighting, not the national MPs. I find it repulsive that there will be national MPs in the country. Not only will national MPs be plentiful, but the national MPs who did not vote in favour of the budget for the financing of the army that is fighting. People’s MPs who did not vote and blocked the confiscation would have to pay for the work of defense factories that make weapons for the army that is at war. I'm going to point out that these national MPs have left the defense plants for a year without funding. So, dear telegenic pianists, I very much ask you to vote in favour of the special confiscation on Thursday and show that you are indeed on the side of the state of Ukraine, not the pianist of what our army is doing. The glory of the army! Glory to Ukraine! Praise the heroes!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u75	Please, Illenka, one minute. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u76	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Respectful colleagues certainly need to accept this statement. But this statement, it plays a symbolic role. We need to make decisions today as a parliament in order not only to show the world but also to really start working to win Ukraine. I think that -- and we, the Freemasons, all these bills have long been registered -- we should be voted a full economic blockade of the temporarily occupied territories, we should break diplomatic relations with the aggressor, we should break the so-called "friendship agreement" with the Russian Federation, which is still valid, and that is shameful. The whole Russian business in Ukraine has to be outlawed because it's impossible when there's a war going on and there's an economic expansion in our territory as an enemy. This should be done today by the Ukrainian Parliament, which will bring us closer to victory, and this will show our strength, our opportunity, and our faith. And then you don't have to take just some positions, and that's how the whole world will see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u77	Thank you. Welcome to the floor of Irina Heratchenko, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Mrs. Irina, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u78	Thank you, Your Honor. Tetjana Blackwall, a colleague from the People's Front, told us that it was our military officers who were fighting in Audio. They're on the front line. Are we working with you on a diplomatic, on our front line? Obviously not. Because if, today, even the Ambassador of Germany in Kiev makes such statements without realizing the risk to the security of all of Europe from Russian Towns, what can be said about the average deputies of different countries of the European Union or citizens of the European Union? They today need more information and the truth about what is actually happening in Donbasa, that it is not a civil war, as it still has been, three years to impose Putin and his puppets on the world. And that's why these statements really don't have to be overstated, colleagues, their meaning. This is our diplomatic work with you in bringing the truth. But our colleagues lack visualization. And I want to thank the Ukrainian journalists who risked their lives taking these shots. You realize that they didn't just see these Cities flying to Audio. They were standing the same way with our military and volunteers under these Towns. And it's very important, your honor, that this statement goes to the European partners with this video. That's why I'm asking the Head of the Supreme Council to give the Secretaryate and the Supreme Council's apparatus a mandate to get this statement through the ICC to go to our partners right from the video. They need to see what's going on today in Java, that it's a civil disaster. Of the live blocks, realizing that the Ukrainian Armed Forces will never answer the Ukrainians, a lively neighborhood fire is being fired on in Java. This is to be seen by the world. So I'm asking that we support that this is not just a statement, it's a video that we thank the Ukrainian journalists for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please come into the hall, prepare for the decision. My colleagues, I'm sure, have both practical and symbolic significance before the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In these days, I am sure, both the authorities and society have demonstrated themselves on the side of the army. I want to thank all those people who worked for the Ukrainian army. The Supreme Council of Ukraine made a statement during the hot fights by the Supreme Council and the committees, but now it is time that the entire Supreme Council was able to give its assessment and turn to European partners to assess the aggression of the deadly Putin machine. And, I'm sure, voting for this statement will demonstrate who's on the side of Ukraine and who's against this war. So I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. And we're moving on to making a decision. So I put to the vote a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments of foreign states and international organizations to condemn the escalation of the Russian Federation’s armed aggression against Ukraine (No. 6039). The committee's proposal is to vote as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:29:23]] For 258. Decision taken. Please show by factions. Peter Poshenko Block – 105 People's Front – 66, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 21, Oleg Ljashka Radical Party – 16, Parenthood – 20, Will of the People – 2, Rebirth Party – 2. Colleagues, you make your decision. And now I'd like to consult you on the next question. Colleagues, we still have one question in the information block that is in the first reading. We can now vote if the committee insists. Mr. Alexander, Danchenko. It's the last question left, information, to put it in the agenda for decision-making. Colleagues, I now propose that the last question of information (first reading) be included in the agenda for decision-making. Colleagues, please mobilize, we can put it in the agenda for making a decision if there's general support for the hall. So I'm putting a motion to vote to put the day session in order to take a decision on the draft Law on Electronic Communications, the last question we have in the information block. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote. 3549-1, 3, 4, about electronic communications. Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please support, we vote, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote! [[17:31:32]] For-191 190. The decision is not made. Unfortunately, this way we won't be able to go to the last question of information. And, fellows, I would like to point out that today we had the first question of the draft Act amending some of the legislation on State support for children who are constantly living in the anti-terrorist area in the settlements on the collision line. This is the bill of the Najem People's Deputy. And I have a request that we also include him in the agenda for making a decision. Colleagues, there is general support for this bill. I don't think the political debate in this room can stand in the way of its adoption. Colleagues, please return to the hall. And I'm voting on the proposal to put the draft Law 5089 into the agenda for the decision to amend some of the legislation on State support for children who are constantly living in the ATO. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:33:06]] For 263 Decision taken. And I invite you to the Mustafu Nayem report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, we have talked a lot about the Audio woman today. I'm going to remind you that this is the first point of the population that is indicated.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u81	Mr. Mustafa, if you'll excuse me for a second, I didn't put in short notice. Colleagues, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. So that we don't waste our time, please support the reduced procedure. [[17:33:50]] For-189 Decision taken. Excuse me, first turn on the timer. Please report, Mr. Mustafa.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, we've been talking a lot about Audio today, and I want to remind you that the population of Audio is the first item in the government's decision on the line of collision. These are the settlements that are between the areas that are controlled by Ukraine and those areas that are now occupied by the Russian Federation. Unfortunately, in those cities that we now call a collision line, there is no possibility for children of school age to learn there. Unfortunately, many of them, when they graduate from school, can't even find vocational and technical schools where they can go to school, or they can't even find higher schools, because many of them don't have a management kit, they don't have teachers; what they teach doesn't match the level that these institutions need to be accredited; many of them don't have an audience, they don't have equipment. And in fact, children who finish school on the collision line don't have the opportunity to get a free education. And I don't think anyone has the illusion of what's going on with these kids. At the end of school, many of them are either taken or taken from that region by separatists, they join those camps, many of them stay in those places, and they're just losing their learning opportunities, they're doing, let's say, not a completely socially beneficial job, and we're actually losing thousands of children there now, who can become our citizens, they're going back to these territories and they're going to be our Ukrainians. This bill suggests that these children be compared to the same children who were previously helped in children who are now in occupied territory. So actually, give them social protection and support in learning. What do you mean? It's support for scholarships, it's support for dormitories, it's support for their education in Ukrainian universities in a controlled area. After considering the bill, the committee suggested that it be considered as a whole. I think this bill is about to unite the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u83	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u84	Because, in fact, we don't have to expect the dispossession of Donbass in general and Lugansk and Donetsk in order to now fight for the thoughts, the thoughts, the hearts of those people, and still bring back to us the people who live on the collision line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u85	Thank you. I invite the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich to the report. Mr. Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u86	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! It's not just Law 5089, it's a bill that has to bring back young people who are in very difficult conditions to return to the education system of Ukraine. It's a bill that restores confidence that we pay attention to children who are in very difficult circumstances. Dear colleagues! Despite the comments we have received, the Committee on Science and Education unanimously supported this bill and on the basis, and in general, there are virtually no observations that might create any contradictions. So we ask all the national MPs, regardless of their political affiliation, to vote in favour of this law and to tell the Ukrainian children: go back to the education system of Ukraine, we are waiting for you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u87	Thank you, Your Honor. And now we're moving on to the discussion. Is there a need to discuss a bill? Well, they raise the factions of the hand that they have a desire to express themselves. Let's sign up for a discussion: two in a row, two in a row. Please, colleagues. Please, Mrs. Romanova from Self-Help. You'll be out of town? Turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u88	As representatives of Parliament first, we believe that the State, first of all, must protect children, as they are the future of our state. We urge everyone to go into the hall now and support the bill. Because now such populated sites as the Audiotype, they've actually remained in favor, and yet, in the end, there's a young generation left behind, children who are growing and they're forming an attitude towards this state. The attitude towards the state will depend on how we vote for the bill and how we protect the rights of children and young people who are now growing up on the collision line. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u89	Thank you for the faction's position. Please, the Barna People's Deputies from Peter Dustenk's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u90	Good afternoon! I'm a teacher at least, but I'm handing over the word to Deputy Dmitri Lubincz, who's in the immediate vicinity of the conflict zone and the fighting area where the children live. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u91	A lube, please, a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u92	Thank you very much. In fact, it's not just a bill for us, we meet these kids every day. Think about it. Now, in these locations, there are only 25,000 of these children living in the Donetsk region. We need to draw attention to them and give them the opportunity to have them in Ukraine to study in higher education institutions and in secondary technical institutions. I want to say that it's not just the Audience already mentioned, but also the settlements that are also known, unfortunately, for tragic events such as Granite, Cermolik, Old Gnatovka, Novotroitski. So I want to call the whole room, let's put this vote together today and show that, in these difficult circumstances, we still think about the very main thing that's in our lives, it's our children, it's our future, it's our future, it's the future of our nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u93	Thank you for your position. Please, from the Radical Party, the national MP, Omelchenko, passes the word to Oleg Ljashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u94	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I am co-author of the bill, which allows children living in frontal areas to receive education in higher education institutions in Ukraine. Such children on the entire front line from Mariupol to Audiowka are sitting in the basements and at the lamppost, which is being prepared in 1943 or 1941, where they are being prepared to eat, and they live there every day because Russian Towns, Russian shells and Russian mines fly over their heads. And today these children are, unfortunately, under the attention of the state, and that is why I, along with my colleagues, have advocated the adoption and preparation of a corresponding bill to solve this problem. By the way, the idea of this bill was presented to me personally by Viacheslav Abroskin, the head of the Donetsk Police, during his visit to Mariupol when we spoke to him on this subject. But at the same time, fellow MPs, I want to draw your attention to other children, Ukrainian children living in occupied territory. And today many of you say that these children living in occupied territory should not be taught in Ukrainian universities, and we should make sure that they have no bearing. And I ask, what schools should Ukrainian children in occupied territory learn? In the Rasovsky or Moscow universities? I believe that they should learn in Ukrainian universities because let us remember the Russian occupation and aggression there, and we are fighting against the aggressor and the invader, but not against the Ukrainians, against the two million Ukrainians, children, pensioners, disabled persons, orphans who are waiting for the help of our country. We cannot turn away from them; we cannot say that they have nothing to do with Ukraine. If we say Donbas is Ukraine, so are the people who live there, so are the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u95	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. From the Fatherland faction, Alexy Rybchin is a national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u96	Alexei Rybczyn "The Fatherland", Donetskina. "Paternality" will support this bill, as will all laws aimed at protecting people. I thank the drafters of the bill, who care not only for the protection of the territories, but for the protection of the thoughts and hearts of our people who are there. And I thank our soldiers for protecting the territory. However, we should also take care of people. I want to talk about it. I want to quote the words of Alexi of the Pacific, this is the Ukrainian famous dissident, the native of the 90th anniversary of which we celebrate this year. He died in the Soviet camps, but he loved his little Fatherland very much, what he wrote about the Donetskina: "I am to have my people live, to raise their culture, so that the voice of my people may lead their party in a multivoted chorus of the world culture. I'm not just giving coal, steel, rent, cars, wheat, milk and eggs to my homeowners. In order for my Donetsk to give not only football players, battling scientists, Russian engineers, agronomists, doctors, teachers, but also Ukrainian patriotic specialists, Ukrainian writers, Ukrainian composers and actors." Without the help of education and culture, it will now be very difficult in Donetskina. That's why we're going to support all these bills. I thank the Supreme Council and all the factions for supporting our drafts, which are related to the development of the transferred higher education institutions of Donbas and Crimea, which helped children from the occupied Donetsk and Luhansk to enter Ukrainian higher education institutions without a POW. We understand that this little bit makes the quality of an aboriginal worse, but it allows us to fight for our children from Donbassa and Crimea. And we urge both government officials and MPs to initiate legislative activities, and I call on the leadership of the Supreme Council to put these bills in turn. Donetsk is Ukraine, Lugansk is Ukraine, Crimea is Ukraine. That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u97	Thank you, Mr. Alexia. Please, from the Opposition Block, Yuri Pavlenko and then Maxim Burbak of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u98	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! The Opposition Block faction supports the bill. And first of all, we stress that children who suffer from armed conflict today need protection and support. Undoubtedly, this bill is important, but it solves only one small problem, it actually provides only one right to receive education from a child. At the same time, to our conviction, children who suffer from war today need systematic protection from birth to the age of 18, for this law applies only to children aged 14 and over. That's why we're calling on the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately establish the procedure for granting the status of a child who's been affected by armed conflict, in accordance with the law that was passed in this room on January 26 last year. It's been a year. There's no solution. I am no longer talking about new categories of children.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u99	Finish up. Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u100	new categories of children, and accordingly they need new aid procedures developed by the Cabinet of Ministers. By upholding this law, we urge both the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately develop and approve and ensure the implementation of a systematic approach to the protection of the rights of every child who is a victim of armed conflict.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u101	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Please, Maxim Burbak of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, the last two speakers showed the example of the pharisaic political blasphemy of the highest pilotage. Now, they say we need to protect the children, we need to protect Donetsk and Lugansk, we need to give money to finance. But you have to protect this country! Together, you sing under the Kremlin’s bell. [[Applause]] Where do you vote once for the state budget, which provides for the financing of our Armed Forces of 5 percent of gross domestic product? Where is one vote for raising the salaries of teachers by 50 percent? Where are they? Where? And you come out here crying again from the rostrum and shame on you! People see everything, they'd have a conscience. [[Noise Nodes]] You vote for the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u103	Colleagues, all factions, and groups took the floor. We finish the discussion, we move on to the decision-making process. I ask that you invite the National Deputies and the Secretary of the Supreme Council and the Heads of the factions. [[Noise Nodes]] Please come into the hall and prepare for the decision. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the legislation on State support for children who are constantly living in the anti-terrorist area at the population centres on the collision line. All have expressed support for us to vote on the basis and in general. So, colleagues, 5089 please support as a whole, colleagues. Vote. We will support children who suffer in the ATO area. Please vote. Please support as a whole. [[17:49:20]] For 269 269 — yes. The law is passed. Colleagues, the next one stands in order of the day block of drafts in the second reading. And the first is the draft of the Law on Anti-Doping Control in Sports. It had a number of amendments, but it was an important bill for our international relations. 4724: draft Law on Anti-Doping Control in Sports Let us go to his consideration. And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sports, Silantiev Denis Olegovich. Denis Olegovich, please. Colleagues, there are few amendments, please stay in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u104	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, a respected colleague, was thoroughly worked out in preparation for the second reading. In all, 23 amendments were made to the bill by the Ukrainian National Deputies. It is proposed to take 18 amendments into account, to reject 2 and to take into account 3 amendments in part. The bill proposes to introduce a European approach to managing anti-doping activities under the National Anti-Doping Organization model, as in Germany. In particular, it is proposed that a supervisory board of anti-doping controls be set up to appoint the heads of the National Anti-Doping Centre and the National Anti-Doping Laboratory to determine the main directions for anti-doping activities. That is what the World Anti - Doping Agency (WADA) requires of Ukraine. The introduction of such a European model will speed up the accreditation of the antidoping laboratory. The Supervisory Board is invited to include representatives from both the public sector and the public. From this part of the Supervisory Board of Anti-Doping Control, there are seven persons — representatives of the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, the National Olympic Committee, the Ukrainian Sports Committee, the National Committee on Disability Sports and the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. The second principle of the position of Ukrainian national deputies refers to the granting of an anti - doping laboratory as an economic activity subject, since a laboratory that does not have accreditation is not viable at all, the reorganisation is to take place at the same time as the laboratory has been accredited. In view of the fact that, in accordance with the requirements of standard-setting technology, we cannot write in the Final Positions of the Bill that part of the fourth that determines the order of the laboratory will become effective from the date of the laboratory's accreditation, it is proposed that the date of entry into force of this article be determined on 1 January 2027. However, if the laboratory's accreditation process starts early, we will quickly amend the bill and the 4th article will become effective at the same time as the accreditation. Please support the committee's decision and adopt the bill in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we only have two amendments. I ask the representative of the committee to remain in the rostrum. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Just two adjustments. I'll read the authors. Fourth, Goose. Don't insist. And the 9th, Gusak. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u106	I have a question not to the 4th and 9th amendments, but to the 15th amendment, which is partially included. I'd like to thank the committee for taking this amendment partially into account, but I would like to point out that the main purpose of creating this lab is to get the accreditation of the World Anti-Doping Agency and become an integral part of the global anti-doping system. Without this accreditation, the work of this laboratory makes little sense. At the same time, the task of the National Anti-Doping Laboratory being accredited by the World Anti-Doping Agency is not mentioned anywhere in this bill. So I ask you to put this amendment to the vote right here. Please, Denis Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u107	We discussed this amendment on the committee, at the committee meeting. We've partially accepted it and we think that what we've pointed out is that the anti-doping lab will become operational, it'll acquire accreditation, there will be a transition to, let's say, self-sustainment from January 1, 2027, is appropriate in the conditions that today are that apply to anti-doping activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u108	So don't insist, okay. Colleagues, the discussion is over and we're moving on to making a decision. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision, colleagues. Please invite the deputies to the hall. A law that is supported by all factions. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Colleagues, in bed. Oleg! Please, I put to the vote the draft Law on Anti-Doping Control in Sports (No.4724) proposed by the Committee in second reading and in general. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. In the second reading and in general, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:56:18]] For 233 Decision taken. The law is passed, colleagues. And the last bill today, there are no amendments at all. Fellows, stay in the hall. Colleagues, the following bill, where there are no amendments at all, is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the provision of assistance to children of a deceased breadwinner (number 4668) (second reading) is not amended. Everyone, please stay in the hall. And I invite the head of the committee of Dennis Ludmila Leontiyevna to report. Please be very brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u109	Yeah. Dear colleagues, you and I have supported the bill. There were 13 proposals from 3 national deputies, 9 totaled, 4 rejected. But, I think that was the point. I want to remind you what this is about. Provide State social assistance to children of a deceased breadwinner who did not have on the day of the death of his or her retirement, for the purpose of assigning pensions to the third disability group from the day of his or her death and paying 18 years for his or her child, and, if he or she is studying, to pay the family’s income of 100 percent per child, for a minimum of two or 120, for three or more, 150. In the case of a disabled child, pay both a disability pension and a pension. And help with the loss of a breadwinner. So I ask you very much to support this bill as a whole, in the second reading and in general. Shuhevich doesn't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m1.u110	Don't insist. Dear colleagues! A social bill of support for children supported by all factions, all groups, all amendments were worked and supported, and we're moving on to making decisions, colleagues. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please invite who's out of the hall, I've seen a few deputies come out, invite them into the hall. Please prepare for the vote. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the provision of assistance to children of the deceased breadwinner (No. 4668) on second reading and in general. We'll support the children, we'll support Bill 4668 in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support, vote, colleagues. [[17:59:18]] For 231 Decision taken. The law is passed. Congratulations on the fruitful work and authors. And, dear colleagues, I would like to read out the announcements that have come to the presidency, and I would like to report a change in the name of the inter-fractional parliamentary union of the MPs from the reform of Ukraine's tax, customs and land legislation in the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call to the title "Rind Land". And the next announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shahov, Sergey Volodymyrovic, into the membership of the parliamentary group "Will of the People" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear ones, therefore, our time for work is now exhausted. We had a productive, fruitful, but not a simple day. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m. I'd like everyone to come to the meeting in time to continue our work. Thank you. Good-bye.
