ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m1.u1	Good day, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ukrainian national deputies, Ukrainian presidents Leonid Makarovich Krawczuk and Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko participate in the ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, members of the National Deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President-designate of Ukraine in the affairs of the Crimean Tatar people, heads and members of the Majlis Crimean Tatar people, representatives of the diplomatic corps, as well as representatives of the media. Honourable National Deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the first Criminal Court I declare open.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m1.u2	Dear guests, distinguished audiences, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andri Parubai, is now invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Andrey, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m1.u3	The high-ranking leaders of the Crimean Tatar people, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, the highly esteemed mufti, the distinguished representatives of the diplomatic corps and international organizations, the respected compatriots! "Nowhere in all of Ukraine have they met Ukrainian troops with such enthusiasm, with such ovations, and with such admiration as the population of Simferopol, all the streets were adorned with flowers and filled with audiences." This is a quote from U.N. Army officer Boris Monkewicz about the entry of the Ukrainian army led by Colonel Bolbocan in Simferopol, who completed the liberation of Crimea from Russian invaders on April 24, 1918. In January 1918, the Crimean People's Republic, proclaimed Kurultai in December 1917, was destroyed and the Crimea occupied by Russian-Major Aggressors. In Crimea a terrible terror broke out, Russian invaders shot the leader of Crimean Tatars, Noman Chelebijihan, who tried to arrange for them to cease hostilities. But as early as April 1918, the Ukrainian army restored peace and tranquillity to the Crimea Peninsula and restored freedom to all the indigenous nations. The parallels between the events of a century ago and modern events are striking. The Russian occupation of Crimea in 1918 and the modern occupation are no different. Then and today's occupation is fear, terror and intimidation. Ukrainians and Crimean Tatars are persecuted. At that time, the occupying forces immediately brutally launched Crimean Tatar Kurultai, and in the modern Crimea, Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people was declared by Russian invaders by an extremist organization and banned. And then, and now the Russian aggressor in Crimea forbids the activities of Ukrainian patriotic organizations, Tatar national groups, religious and Ukrainian Christian churches, and Muslims. But I am convinced that how Ukrainian soldiers released Crimea then, in April 1918, we will free Crimea now. [[Applause]] We also remember that our Supreme Council held a decommunization in Crimea on May 12, 2016. 75 of the population and areas of the peninsula have been returned with historical names. And I know how proud you are of this decision, and I am proud of this important state decision of the Ukrainian Parliament. The decommunization of Crimea is also a step towards its invasion. Dear criminals! We're with you, we're not forgetting us, and I'm sure Crimea will come home to a large Ukrainian family, because Crimea is Ukraine. [[Applause]] The historical fates of the Ukrainian and Crimean Tatar nations are inextricably linked and are in many ways similar. Our peoples are united in the perpetuity of freedom, the unbreakable will to preserve and develop their own national identity, as well as the grueling struggle for the right to live freely and with dignity on their own earth. On March 17th of the same year, the same Hall held a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the Ukrainian Revolution of 1917-1921 and the creation of the first Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian Central Council. It was during the Ukrainian Revolution that the possibility of a civilized democratic unification of the territory into a single sovereign state was demonstrated, Ukraine’s independence declared. This era was the culmination of the national-liberal struggle, the rebirth of the Ukrainian nation and one of the most complex periods of Ukrainian history, the history of the Ukrainian people in the twentieth century. And we remember another historical event that also happened a hundred years ago, in 1917, when within the modern borders of Ukraine, it was the national revival of the Crimean Tatar people. In April 1917, the All - Crimean Muslim Assembly was convened in Simferopol, which elected the Temporary Crimean-Muslim Executive Committee. The Ukrainian Council was visited by a Muslim delegation who asked to support their desire to establish the autonomy of the Crimea. "Muslims express their wish for the territorial accession of Crimea to Ukraine." This is a quote from the Voice Tatar newspaper of July 2, 1917. Kurultai, whose centenary vocation we celebrate today, began his first meeting on December 9, 1917, at 2 p.m. in the Hall of the Khan Palace in Bahchisarai, following the service of the delegates. And the first Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian Central Council, welcomed the beginning of the work with a telegram. According to the first Criminal Court, Crimean Tatars were declared. The Crimean People’s Republic was formed, its government was established, symbolism was approved, and Crimean Tatar basic laws were adopted, the first Crimean Constitution. Not many know, but the Crimean Tatars became the first Muslim nation to give women electoral rights before many countries in Europe did. [[Applause]] After choosing the Crimean Tatar government, the first Kurultai stressed that it does not encroach on the rights of other peoples who inhabit Crimea. I want to remind you of one of the organizers of the first Kurulta, the first head of the Crimean Tatar national government, Noman Chelebijihan: "There are different colored roses, lilies, tulips on the Crimean Peninsula, and each of them. delicate flowers are their special beauty, their special tender aroma. These roses, these flowers are the peoples that live in Crimea. The purpose of Kurultay is to put them together, to make a beautiful and elegant bouquet of them, to establish a truly civilized Switzerland on the beautiful island of Crimea. Kurultai thinks not only of the Crimean Tatars, but of all the nations that have lived with them for centuries. Kurultai invites them to work together and he'll go with them." The Crimean People’s Republic became the world’s first Turkish republic. All other Turkish republics, even modern - day Turkey, were established after the Crimean People’s Republic was declared. But by the end of January 1918, the Bolsheviks had captured all of Crimea by declaring the dissolution of Kurultai and the Council of People’s Representatives, and they had staged a mass terror on the peninsula, accompanied by the pogroms of Tatar villages. However, the Crimean People’s Republic, after only a few weeks of existence, has remained in history as a testimony that the Crimean Tatar nation is aware of itself as a subject of history, of the indigenous people of the peninsula, and of Crimea as an integral part of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Started by Russian invaders in 1918, terror continued in 1944, and then in the sick imagination of bloody dictator Stalin came up with the idea of deportation of the entire nation. The Ukrainians who survived the Holocaust, the shootings, the repressions, the deportations, and the deep understanding and sharing of the pain of the Crimean Tatars. During the few days of May 1944, some 200,000 innocent Crimean Tatars were deported from Crimea. And the return to Crimean Tatar Fatherland began only in the late 1980s. But in fact, the Crimean Tatars received their will on their own land only by proclaiming Ukraine’s independence in 1991. It seemed that it was finally possible to live freely and decently on the home land, but in 2014, the Crimean land again became the target of Russian invaders, and again the Crimean Tatar people along with the Ukrainians were being persecuted and discriminated against on their own land. Despite all the calamities and hardships that plagued the Crimean Tatar nation, he was able not only to endure but also through all the years of mistrust and deportation, his genuine love for his homeland, his fine traditions, his native language, his own unique way of peace, good and development that his ancestors followed. As I mentioned at the outset, the tragic history of the two peoples -- Ukrainians and Crimean Tatars -- has a lot in common. In both nations, nationalism and native land, culture, and language were taken away. But our nations have endured. Together. We are the only, we are the only Ukrainian people, we are the citizens of the only independent and independent Ukraine. [[Applause]] And now, in this difficult situation for us all the time, despite all the internal and external challenges facing our country, it is very important right now to strengthen our unity, the internal unity of our people, the unity that guarantees our victory and the future prosperity of Ukraine -- the mighty, democratic, legal, European state. Congratulations to all of you, my friends, on the 100th anniversary of the First Criminal Court. Praise the Crimean Tatar people! [[Applause]] Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m1.u4	We thank the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for his historical record, and such important parallels in Ukraine’s modern history.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m1.u5	The word is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council, the national deputy of Ukraine, Irina Stepanovni Lucenko, for the announcement of his greeting to the head of the Ukrainian State. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m1.u6	"Dear compatriots, today we celebrate a memorable event -- 100 years from the time of the first Kurulta, the national meeting of the Crimean Tatar people. "On this day our political life, which was destroyed a century and a half ago, finds the truth of a new birth," the first Kurultai of the Crimea was discovered in 1917 by the Crimea people. He concluded that the Crimean People of the Republic had been proclaimed, that a government had been formed, that a Constitution had been established, that had abolished the status of privileges and had declared fundamental democratic rights and freedoms, which were primarily the equal rights of all the inhabitants of the Crimea, and that women were given rights on an equal footing with men. Significantly, a delegation of the Ukrainian Central Council took part in the opening ceremony. And although the dream of building a proclaimed republic was crushed by Bolsheviks who started bloody terror, the first Kurultai became a major milestone in the history of Crimea and all of Ukraine. Today’s annexation of Crimea Russia, which dreams of imperial ambitions, has once again brought enmity and fear, oppression, and repression against the Crimean Tatars, Ukrainians, representatives of other nationalities, all who remain faithful to the Ukrainian State. Ukraine is making great efforts to restore sovereignty and territorial integrity, to protect its citizens in territories occupied by the Russian Federation. We persist in political methods, especially at the international level, by addressing the United Nations, the International Criminal Court, other international and European institutions with the aim of punishing the aggressor justly. Work on the creation of Crimean Tatars in the Crimea Crimea has begun in the form of a sovereign and independent Ukrainian State. I look forward to shortly to the working group of the Constitutional Commission on the changes made and agreed upon and additions to chapter X of the Constitution of Ukraine, which have to legislatively establish the status of such autonomy, which will ensure the levels of rights and freedoms of both Crimean Tatars and other ethnicists living on the peninsula. In the future, I look forward to the wise and balanced decision of the Ukrainian national deputies on this very important issue. I am convinced that the heroic struggle of the Crimean Tatar people for their rights and for their homeland, their high organization and unity with the Ukrainian nation in the development of the Ukrainian State will be a compelling factor in restoring state sovereignty in Crimea, Ukraine’s successful development in the family of developed, democratic, European states. Glory to Ukraine!"
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m1.u7	Heroic glory!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m1.u8	"Peter Dusty." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m1.u9	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m1.u10	Thank you, Mr. Head. We simply inform that there are so many diplomatic meetings in our esteemed Head today. And believe me, there is no meeting of either the Head of the Supreme Council or his intercessors, or of course the President or the head of the government, where the issue of the inadmissibility of the annexation of Crimea, the creeping annexation of Donbas, and the question of the return of Crimea is on the order of the day. We're continuing our meeting. And now we have the floor to our honourable colleague, the National Deputy of Ukraine, the President-in-Charge of Ukraine in the affairs of the Crimean Tatar people, the leader of the Crimean Tatar people, Mustafa Djemiliev, our no doubt most authoritative member of the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m1.u11	The Honourable Chairman of the Supreme Council, the Honourable President of Ukraine, the National Deputies, the invited, the guests and the TV set, especially our fellow countrymen and fellow citizens. Today is an important event in the life of the Crimean Tatar people. I know that thousands and thousands of our citizens are now in Crimea seeing our meeting through the "ATR" webcast. So, with your permission, Your Honor Chairman, I'd like to make my speech in Crimean Tatar. Since not everyone in this room knows enough Crimean Tatar language, the language of another indigenous people of Ukraine, please pick up headphones to listen to the synchronic translation in Ukrainian. In order not to create difficulties for our translator, I will try to adhere strictly to the text, not to make any advances. The noble national deputies of Ukraine and delegates of the second Criminal Court! Dear guests! Just a hundred years ago, when after the 135-year occupation of Russia by Crimea and the overthrow of the royal regime, the disintegrating nations of the empire were given the right to express their will and thoughts freely, the Crimean Tatars made a desperate attempt to realize their legitimate right to self-determination on their own land. They first reborn their traditional representative body, Kurultay, the National Parliament, which declared the Crimean People's Republic. The first article of the Constitution stated that all ethnic groups in Crimea have the right to self - determination within a single republic. It was also clear that the form and composition of the Republic’s administration should be determined by the country’s founding meeting, where representatives of all national organizations of the peninsula were invited. The leader of Kurultayu and the head of the Republic of Noman Chelebijichhan spoke about how he views ethnic groups living in Crimea as different flowers combined, forming a beautiful bouquet, and ensuring the prosperity of the Crimea. Crimean Tatars in the presence of their representative body in the face of the threat of the Bolshevik invasion, in vain, tried to consolidate all the forces of the peninsula in order to prevent this threat. However, their efforts have not been successful. Raised in the spirit of imperial contempt and hostility to any foreigner, the Russian political forces in Crimea could not accept that they should have equal rights with the representatives of the indigenous people, and they continued to talk about the indivisibility of the mother of Russia. To some extent, they were plagued by rumors that were spread by Bolshevik sailors in Sevastopol, that those in Crimea would not touch anyone, but would fight only the Tatars. True, there was some support from the few Ukrainian nationalists in Crimea. Thus, the military formation of Crimean Tatars became virtually the only force that opposed the movement of Bolshevik forces in early January 1918. But the forces were very uneven. During the massacres of Bahchisarei, the Crimean squadron was destroyed on January 12-13, 1918, by Bolshevik forces of 10 times the number. There was a red terror in Crimea, promises that no one but the Crimean Tatars were quickly forgotten, too. Thousands and thousands of people were shot or killed alive in the Black Sea, including the fierce supporters of Russia’s indivisible mother. He was arrested, imprisoned in Sebastopol prison, and then shot and thrown into the sea on February 23, and the head of Crimean Tatar Kurultai, head of the Crimean government. The Crimean People's Republic, a poet, author of the Hymn of the Crimean Tatar people, Noman Chelebijihan. After the final overthrow of Soviet power in Crimea in 1920, Bolsheviks created a national territorial republic, the Crimean ARSR, with the national Crimean language next to Russia, on 18 October 1921. Some Kurultai, who remained alive, even received high positions in the Republic, but this did not last long. By the end of the 20s, after the shooting of the head of the Republic of Veli Ibrahimov, there had been a mass shooting or sending to exterminating Soviet camps of almost all national intelligence and, above all, former Kurultai delegates. So you could say that today we're celebrating the 100th anniversary of the Crimson Court. It's been years. In 1991, 70 years after the establishment of Soviet power in Crimea and 47 years after the genocide and total deportation of 1944, Crimean Tatars, the vast majority of whom were in exile, using the freedom of the Gorbavian reconstruction, were able to hold democratic elections for their delegates and to call in Simferopol the second Criminal Court. Among other documents, the second Kurultai adopted the Declaration of the Sovereignty of the Crimean Tatar People in his historical Fatherland. On this Kurultai a higher representative body was elected – the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people, and then local and regional mosques were chosen in all places of residence of Crimean Tatars. As expected, the Soviet authorities immediately declared Kurultai and Majlis anti - Soviet and anti - extremist organizations. True, the Soviet authorities were no longer able to unleash the repressions of Kurultai. She was no longer strong; she was on the threshold of her own death. Even after the collapse of the Soviet Union, the new authorities of the Russian Federation had expressed their willingness to recognize Kurultai as the only higher representative body, promising even substantial assistance in solving the social problems of the people, but provided that the Crimean Tatars in turn supported a decree on the denunciation of the Supreme Council of the Soviet Union’s 1954 decree on the transfer of Crimea to Ukraine, which was being prepared at the time. Of course, we could not agree to such an arrangement, and this arrangement was not reached. Thus, for all the years that followed, Russian security forces and the propaganda apparatus worked to discredit the system of national self - rule of the Crimean Tatar people, to bring divisions into the environment of Crimean Tatars. By providing powerful support to the pro-Russian forces in Crimea, Russian media have repeatedly sought to intimidate the people of Crimea and all Ukraine by separatism of Crimea Tatars, accusing them of planning to separate themselves from Ukraine and join Turkey, or even in trying to create a second Chechnya in Crimea, or even in order to follow the example of Kosovo. Despite the expectations of the Crimean Tatars, Kurultai was not recognized by Ukraine, even though Ukraine had announced from the first days of its independence a course for the return of the Crimean Tatar people and the restoration of all its rights. The reasons were different, but the main reluctance was to cause dissatisfaction with the pro-Russian part of the Crimea and Russia. As a result, some leaders of the State did not hide their fears about the Crimean Tatars, which were strongly promoted by Russian propaganda. Many of the social, land, educational, cultural, and legal problems of the indigenous people, the problems of their complete return to their historical Fatherland for decades, have not been solved. Sadly, at that time it was a real situation. And although some problems were solved at the time, it was largely due to the unity and consolidation of the people, who under a relative democracy could fully defend their rights. Suffice it to say that for more than two decades, the Crimean Tatars could not have been approved by the Supreme Council of the Law on the Restoration of Deportees. This law was passed only after the Revolution of Dignity and the occupation of Crimea by Russian forces. Now most experts tend to think that if Ukraine were to lead a balanced and systematic policy in Crimea, if Crimea's status were to correspond to the rights of the indigenous people to self-determination and not to some amorphous groupist republic, its occupation in 2014 was, if not completely excluded, at any rate extremely complicated. The Dignity Revolution has changed much in our country, and the view of Crimea and the problems of the indigenous peoples has changed considerably, both in society and in the higher echelons of Ukraine. Speaking on the eve of the 72nd anniversary of the deportation, the President of the State said, "We are late, but we are aware of the need to create in Crimea national autonomy of Crimean Tatars with full guarantee of equal rights and freedoms of ethnic Ukrainians, Russians and other ethnicists of the peninsula." We very much hope that the changes developed by the working group of the Constitutional Commission to the 10th article of the Constitution of Ukraine on the status of Crimea will be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and justice in relation to the indigenous people of Crimea will prevail. Everlasting memory to the fallen delegates of the first Crimean Court 100 years ago. Praise the Crimean Tatar people! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m1.u12	Thank you, Mr. Mustafa-aga, and thank you so much for this opportunity to hear Crimean Tatar language in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, it's wonderful. Dear colleagues, my friends, we are continuing our meeting. And now, for your review, we're going to show a video dedicated to the 100th anniversary of the first Criminal Court. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, I invite the head of the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people, the President of the World Congress of Crimean Tatars, the National Deputy of Ukraine, our distinguished colleague, Refat Chubarov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m1.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidents of Ukraine, the prime ministers of Ukraine, the Vice-Prime Minister, the members of the government of Ukraine, the high-ranking mufti, the spiritual fathers, the teachers! Ladies and gentlemen, the holding of a ceremony in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the first 100th anniversary of the Criminal Court of the Crimean Tatar people, with the participation of the leading Ukrainian politicians, Ukrainian national deputies, members of the Ukrainian government, delegates of the sixth invocation of the Criminal Court of the Crimean Tatar people, the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people, representatives of the Crimean Tatar diaspora from Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Turkey, and the distinguished foreign diplomats testify to a fundamental change in the sense of the role and place of the Crimean Tatar people in today and in the future of the Ukrainian independent state. But, you'll tell me, why did this happen only when our home land, Crimea, was under temporary Russian occupation? Yes, that's true. But I am confident that the Crimean Tatar nation for the support of the Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian state, of which Crimea is part, will face this test. In many Crimean Tatar dwellings around the world, and I think that in all the homes in the Crimea, through the direct language of Ukrainian television channels, including "ATR", all the attention is now attached to our meeting, and not only to Crimean Tatars, but to ethnic Ukrainians, many others who have not accepted and will never accept Russian occupation, all those who remain faithful in Crimea to their own country, to their Ukrainian state. I would like to welcome from all of us our compatriots and fellow citizens who, in the face of Russian occupations, constant persecution and repression, are preserving their homeland, protecting the Crimea and waiting for us, Ukraine, with the return of justice and truth to Crimea. I want us to welcome all of our people, who are now in occupied Crimea, on their own land, waiting for us. And the time that we return will be the happiest time for us to return to the land free of the invaders, where the sovereignty of the Ukrainian State will be restored. I want them to see it. [[Applause]] Thank you. At the very beginning of our solemn session, we were accompanied by our heroes, the deputy heads of Majlis Ahtem Chigos and Ilma Umerov. They're gone now because they're gone, they're gone. Tomorrow morning there will be a meeting of ministers of foreign affairs of the EU member states in Vienna. And there they have a meeting with them where they will talk about how we will soon regain Ukrainian sovereignty, sovereignty over the Crimean land. I'm talking about saying once again from this rostrum that everyone there in Crimea retains dignity, and whoever doesn't bow their heads, they're all real heroes in Crimea! And I want us to applaud them. [[Applause]] I'm going to let myself ask you to move into your minds 100 years ago. At the beginning of 1917, the Russian Empire, the size of which consisted of dozens and dozens of enslaved nations, collapsed. And it is clear that the peoples of that empire, who felt self - sufficient, could not but try to use this decay as a historic opportunity for their restoration. The Ukrainians and the Crimean Tatars were no exception, especially since many Crimean Tatars had a memory passed on from generation to generation of their loss of their centuries - old state, the Crimean Hahn, as a result of Russia’s conquest of Crimea in 1783. Although since the first annexation of Crimea to the events of 1917 leading to the first Criminal Court, only 134 years have passed, the Crimea has suffered catastrophic blows, the almost monoethnic composition of the Crimea population has been artificially altered by Russian colonial power through aggressive displacement of the indigenous people beyond the peninsula. Nevertheless, early in 1917, when the Crimean Tatars united around the influential group of young people, the followers of the reformist ideas promoted by the great Crimean Enlightener Ismail Gaspriński, they confidently declared to the world that the Crimean Tatars had the right and the power to decide their own fate. The process was led by a highly educated 32-year-old lawyer and the Mufti Mufti of Crimea Noman Chelebijihan. Being well aware of the revolutionary rise of the Ukrainian people, as well as the fact that the Ukrainians were similarly under the oppression of Russia, the leaders of the Crimean Tatars tried to find understanding with the Ukrainian Central Council in Kiev, which became a representative body of the Ukrainian Democratic Forces and led the National Democratic Revolution in Ukraine. But no special progress has been made in this direction, especially because they did not agree on a possible territorial accession of the Crimea under the condition that it retains a certain autonomy that would result from the presence of its indigenous people. Thus, a 100 - year - old decision to unite efforts for further joint struggle, including against the enemies of the outside, was not reached. As a result, history has shown, both Ukrainians and Crimean Tatars have been lost for decades. From the point of view that history teaches that no one ever teaches anything, we have to agree that this applies to our generation. The restoration in February 1991 of Crimean autonomy in Moscow and in the interests of only the Russian ethnic community, in full disregard of the interests of the ethnic Ukrainians living on the peninsula, in absolute disregard of the rights of the Crimean Tatar people, who had only just begun to return to their homeland from the cities of exile, had been a disastrous mistake for an independent Ukraine. We are obliged to correct this shameful mistake as a matter of urgency. And we started this work. Part of the Constitutional Commission of Ukraine for the direct participation of members of the Majlis Crimean Tatar people has just developed a draft amendment to chapter X of the Constitution of Ukraine, "Autonomous Republic of Crimea". Of course, over the next few days, the project will be publicly discussed among various types of Ukrainian society, and especially in the Crimean Tatar environment, at the meetings of the Majlis Crimean Tatar people. I know that today there will be a statement by the deputy head of the Constitutional Commission of Ukraine and the head of the working group that prepared these changes, Professor Butkevitch. And maybe he'll stop at these points. I don't want to get ahead of this. I would like to say that, as soon as possible, in this session, we, or the President of Ukraine, on our application, have put this project before the Supreme Council, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine would send more than 226 votes and more to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to return to the next session. We are convinced that the reformation of Crimean autonomy, that giving it meaning that would stem from the unconditional rule of the Crimean Tatar people to self-determination on their own land and in the form of a Ukrainian state, is the shortest way to de-occupy Crimea and restore Ukraine's state sovereignty over the Crimea Peninsula. From this rostrum of our solemn meeting, I would like to thank once again all those in Crimea who maintain their dignity, who do not bow their heads to the Russian invaders who support each other. Today, we have more than 50 people in prison. We want to express our support to their families, more than 110 children in these families who need our help, and we will join all our friends in bringing this help to them at the proper time. We will and will continue to do our utmost to ensure that the goals and tasks that were set by the first Criminal Court of the Crimean Nation are finally accomplished by the active composition of Kurulta, the Sixth Kurulta, as soon as possible, all of us, together with our worthy comrades, with the deserving leaders of Ukraine, are gathered together for our celebration in Bahchisarai, and where we would put the final point on the implementation of all those plans and all the work that is being done here now. This will be necessary, and it will be in such short terms that not only will we all be and not only witnesses of this, as it goes on, we will be specifically those who will implement it. I would like to congratulate the entire Crimean Tatar people, all of our neighbors in Crimea, temporarily occupied by Russia, the entire Ukrainian society with such a very memorable and significant event in the life of Ukraine, with the 100th birthday of the Crimean Tatar people. We will definitely return. The foundation laid by the first Criminal Court gives us solid grounds for life, for the future, for the future in the free Crimea, within an independent Ukrainian state. Praise the Crimean Tatar people! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m1.u15	Thank you, Mr. Refate. I invite you to take the floor of the Deputy Head of the Constitutional Commission of Ukraine, Doctor of Legal Sciences, Professor Vladimir Butkević. You'll have up to 10 minutes to perform. And I'm asking everyone who's speaking to follow the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m1.u16	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear participants in the special session! For centuries in people's lives, it's like an anniversary in a person's life. She remembers all the details of her life — what good she has done herself and others whose bad habits she has not been able to get rid of. Unless accounts at the national level are more demanding, more responsible. True, history has shown that not every nation is able to bear responsibility for what has been done in relation to other nations. The century of victory by the first Crimson Tatar nation is not necessarily associated with the history of the three nations: Crimean Tatars as the indigenous people of Crimea, Ukrainian and Russian. 100 years ago, they were practically in the same conditions, freed from the yoke of imperialism and feudal oppression, but they were apparently carrying out different plans for the other two nations. According to Gruszewski, Ukraine offered to unite more closely with the Crimean Tatars, since the Russian Revolution would lead to the collapse of the empire, it sent a delegation of the Ukrainian Central Council to participate in the opening ceremony of the first Criminal Court. In addition to the sent delegation to the first Kurultai, the Ukrainian Central Council issued a special address to the Kurultai delegates. I quote from Crimean Tatar historians: "One of the most politically significant has been the message of the Ukrainian Council. On behalf of the population of Ukraine, we welcome the Crimea Tatars, who were our old glorious allies back in the Crimea Khanty. Now the Tatars are the legitimate masters of the Crimea Peninsula, according to the recognition of the Kiev Congress of the Peoples." Speaking after the meeting of the peoples in Kiev, at the second All-Criminal Congress of Crimean Tatar public organizations, Noman Chelebijihan thus assessed his results: “Our committee considered it an obligation to bring its greetings to the Ukrainian Council as well. That's what we signed under the country's democratic federal government. Clearly, we should be interested in the issue of convenience or inconvenience from the point of view of our interests as an autonomous government in Ukraine. Our committee found that such an arrangement was entirely in our best interests." But in this mutual understanding of Ukrainian and Crimean Tatars, Ukrainians, and Crimean Tatars, Russia began to fight decisively. First the Provisional Government, then the Bolsheviks. The difference is that the provisional government paid little attention to the reaction of the world community, and the Bolsheviks preferred extreme action: cutting, shooting, rolling. This involved both Ukrainians and Crimean Tatars. Unless the first one was more, and that's why we had to cut more. An Muraviov gang was thrown against the Ukrainians, and against the Crimean Tatars was Bela Kuna, who were drowning in blood. Crimean Tatars don't have to talk about it. They felt good about the Russian juda of favor for nearly two and a half centuries. It was the Russian occupation of the Crimean Peninsula that rejected the Crimean Tatar nation from its all - known achievements at the end of the 18th century. This nation was known more then in European capitals, not to mention the Muslim world than Russia. Not just. Russia then not only established its international relations with Crimean Tatars but also often used them to help her. The Crimean Tatar material and spiritual culture of the 23rd century was the object of the conquest of many nations of the then European and Muslim world. And today the sources of Crimean architecture and design can be seen in southern Europe, in the Mediterranean, in the peoples of North Africa and Asia. This applies to both urban and rural and park architecture. The elements of the Crimean Tatar costume, craftsmanship, culture, food, medicine, and hygiene often became objects of imitation among European and Muslim peoples. The Crimean Tatar era, poetry, prose, tried to buy European and Muslim rulers. And today they are preserved in the centers of culture of Germany, France, England, the Netherlands, Israel, Bulgaria, the Arab world, and far beyond the then European, Asian, and African states. Crimean Tatar science also said its weighty word in the development of the world’s civilization. But the Crimean Tatar people were particularly fond of European and not just European peoples. In 1774, almost 10 years before the annexation of Russia, the work "The Great Description of the Land of Bushing" was published in Germany, which described the Crimean Tatar people as: "The Crimean Tatars are friendly and noble, hospitable and courageous, honest and kind, they love justice, they have the living, they have the perception, they have the intelligence." After the annexation, Catherine II followed a dark period of Russian darkness until the 1917 revolution. But even these years in the history of the Crimean Tatar nation were brighter than those introduced by the Bolsheviks in the 20th century. As in the burned-out land, there were separate plants in the desert somewhere, and during that period, the Crimean Tatar people were letting themselves know that they had not destroyed it, that it was fighting. Crimean Tatar secular schools since 1881, were the first among the Muslims of Russia, as were the first Russian Muslim newspaper to be published since 1883, by world-renowned educator Ismail Bay Gaspriński. In general, the Crimean Tatars supported their people’s literacy until the revolution of 1917. The policy of Crimean Tatars in the Soviet era, since the appearance of Bolsheviks in the Crimea, is not receptive to normal people, so I call only a few of the facts. I say just a few facts, because the crimes committed by the Russian authorities against the Crimean Tatar people are enough for ten Nuremberg trials. On January 12, 1918, the Crimson Tatar government was arrested along with Chelebijihan, more than 600 politicians of the Crimean Tatar people along with 125 leaders of Crimean Tatar squadrons, torture, ear, nose, arms or sexual organs, shooting and throwing into the sea to deprive the people of the possibility of burial. The torture of Chelebijihan and the murder of the beast on the night of February 22-23, the body was also thrown into the sea because they feared even the dead leader of the Crimean Tatar people. On January 17-18, 1918, it's banned by Bolsheviks Millilet, Voice Tatar, and a newspaper that I've already talked about that was published by Gasprinsky since 1883. Russia’s Soviet political butchery acted on a primitive one - time stand, primarily scaring its ideologists and agitators with Crimean bourgeois nationalism. They've barely come up with the names of all the new and new repressive measures: "Sultan-galie," "Sultan-ish."", "Milli Firka's counter-revolution," "Criminal Attractors", "Crimscotarian Collaborationism" and so on. Behind all these crazy "crazy" and "creatures" are tens of thousands of tortured, shot, taken to death camps. This list can be continued indefinitely. One thing I want to remind you is that the Nuremberg Process is still waiting for the present - day Russian leaders. And don't let them think that they can explain then -- they didn't know, they didn't hear, they didn't see. They will suffer the same punishment that Fascist criminals suffered after World War II. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m1.u17	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr. And we hope that your forecast will come true. And now I am happy to give the floor to our next participant, the deputy head of the spiritual government of Muslims of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Mufti Ayder Rustem. You're welcome to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m1.u18	Dear Lord Chairman! [[Crimson Tatar greetings]] Honorable members of the government and national deputies! [[Crimson Tatar greetings]] I welcome all of you, as we are taught by our tradition, salam alaikum. Much has been said about Russia's politics, I will not repeat myself, just to emphasize that Russia never wanted to see Ukraine free and independent. Russia never wanted to see the Crimean Tatar nation free on its own land. It was genocide against both Ukrainians in the past, for example, the Holocaust of 1931-1933 and the Crimean Tatars. And this policy will not change. As our people's proverb says, don't lean on water. Don't trust the enemy like you don't rely on water. But the Crimean Tatar nation has endured, survived, and recovered. He was killed by his elite, his intelligence, but he put it up over and over again. Why? To my vision, through my faith in God, God’s justice, through prayer and the hope of someone who will never fail to respond to the call of the oppressed. For he is the one who knows all things, hears all things, and sees all things. And he is just, and he is gentle, and he no doubt exalts whom he wills, and humbles whom he pleases; gives authority to whom he pleases, and leaves authority to whom he wills. As the Koran says. Today we're celebrating the 100th anniversary of Kurulta, and it's a sign that the session of the first Kurulta started in the Han Palace after the Mass, as today, we did the ointment and started the session. It is known that the convening of the first organization of the first Kurulta was preceded by a series of other events, namely, the first All-Ukrainian Muslim assembly, on which a temporary Crimean Muslim executive was founded, I emphasize, a Muslim executive committee elected by Noman Chelebijihan. At the same time, he was chosen as the first mufti of Crimea Muslims. Noman Chelebijihan later led the government of the declared Crimea People’s Republic. Chelebijihan’s fate was tragic, but his words had been forever. He said, "They can fire all over our country and destroy all our property, but they won't be able to destroy the faith of Crimean Tatars." And today, like 100 years ago, Ukrainians and Crimean Tatars are together choosing their rights to their own land, together resisting the aggression of the northern neighbour. Today, like a hundred years ago, the Crimean Tatar leaders, the Crimean Tatar Mufti, along with the Ukrainians, are looking for ways to build the future of our peoples. There is no doubt that history is cyclical, and this event is significant. The Crimean Tatar people, like the Ukrainians, have overcome many trials in this thorny struggle for their freedom, justice, and independence thanks to their faith in the Most High and their help. The will of the Most High of Ukraine and the Crimean Tatars have been, are, and will be, the one and only, because Crimea is Ukraine, and our fight will last and will last until victory itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m1.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ayder. And I invite you to the last word for today's declared high court speaker. The word is given to Vice President of the World Crimean Tatar Congress of Mukremin Shahin. If you'll excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m1.u20	On behalf of the millions of Crimean Tatars who live around the world and in Turkey, I welcome the proud Ukrainian people and the elected representatives of the Ukrainian Parliament, as well as the great lords of presidents, prime ministers, deputy prime ministers, diplomats and all the guests of this event! It is difficult to express the joy we feel in connection with the measures that are being taken today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in honor of the first Kurulta and the Crimean Democratic Republic, which embody the ideals of the Crimean Tatar people. Thank you very much. After the Dignity Revolution, the entire Ukrainian people are facing considerable challenges, and we, the Crimean Tatars, have faced the worst of dreams — the loss of the Motherland. We Crimean Tatars, who live in Crimea and in the diaspora, are always working according to our capabilities. We know that we stand behind Ukraine and the Crimea if we work together, hard and courageously fight alongside our friends, protecting the common values of humanity on the basis of the principles that Ishmael Bay gave us, Gaspriński and Noman Chelebijihan. As Crimean Tatars, therefore, we are clearly aware of the importance of the friendly relationship between Ukraine and Turkey. We are concerned about the development of friendship between the two countries, as well as with the need for two nations to get to know one another better and to go into the future together. Friendship and cooperation between the two nations and the two nations are not a kinetic temporary union; we see in them the strategic commitment that sociology, history, geography, and challenges of the present. Cooperation between Ukraine and Turkey is starting to consolidate democracy, law and human rights in our region. This cooperation is essential for the security of the Black Sea and Eastern European regions, as well as for the prosperity and happiness of the peoples living in it. In order to develop this friendship and cooperation, the Crimean Tatars living in Turkey are putting forth their earnest efforts and will continue them in the further acceleration. We are asked the same question everywhere. Why don't you admit the occupation, which makes no difference, because that Ukraine, that Russia, doesn't matter? We give that answer. We are not enemies of the Russian people. We choose a democratic, civilized and free life, unlike aggressive, colonial and oligarchic dictatorship. So our answer is definitely Ukraine. The Crimean Tatar people in their homeland prefer to be an integral part of Ukraine, to gain the rights of national autonomy, to support the development of the native language of the United Nations and UNESCO, to preserve culture, traditions, to create national institutions, and to heal the wounds that history has inflicted with friends. And to go into the future in a civilized country as a peaceful nation. A hundred years ago, Noman Chelebijihan compared the peoples living in Crimea to flowers, and the unity of these peoples to a beautiful bouquet. The purpose of Kurultai, whose head he was, was to preserve the beauty of this bouquet and make Crimea as civilized as Switzerland. For hundreds of years, they followed the light road and preserved its ideals. We follow these ideals today. Of course, we believe that one day Crimea will return to the free world, Ukraine. And then we'll hold back the word that was given centuries ago. As Chelebijihan said, we will work to wipe out the tears of our people and our brothers who live in this land. And that is when Crimea’s Crimea autonomy will not be a place of repression and injustice, where thieves rule and people flee, but will become a Father who will contribute to the bright future of Ukraine, where the nations will live in a fraternity where culture and tradition will be respected. Glory to the friendship between Ukraine and Turkey! Praise the Crimean Tatar people! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-06-m1.u21	Thank you so much for your inspiring talk. I think, first of all, we should thank the initiator of today's very important historic event. And on behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament, I would like to thank both Mustafa Jamileva and Rephat Chubarov for this beautiful, right initiative. [[Applause]] Secondly, I want to assure you, all present, that the Ukrainian Parliament is well aware of its responsibility for returning the Crimea. And we understand that this fight should not only take place at the level of rhetoric and legislation, not only during the participation of all our parliamentary delegations on all international, inter-parliamentary sites, but also in specific assistance to the families of Ukrainians, the Crimean Tatars, who remain in occupied territory today, and have serious problems with having their families arrested once, detained with support. So I want to inform you that in the 2018 budget, thanks to our joint initiative with Mustafa Djemilev, with Rephat Chubarov, there will be a position that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as the Ministry of Interim Occupied Territories, will set up a special tape to create such a legal support fund for those families whose representatives today hold occupation regimes. We will also certainly do our utmost to ensure that the changes to the Constitution bring about the important things that our distinguished colleagues have emphasized in their speeches today. Once again, let me thank you all for this meeting, for your participation, for your heroism, for your unbreakableness, for thanking the leaders of the Crimean Tatar nation, Ahtem Chigoza, for the important mediation work that has been done for the liberation of the leaders of Crimean Tatars Ilmi Umerova, Ahtem Chigoza, to ask that this work not be stopped until all the Kremlin and Crimean Tatars have been released, and to express our confidence that we will all meet at the next meeting in Crimea, in the beautiful, wonderful, Ukrainian, where we will necessarily be. [[Applause]] I thank all those who participated in the meeting. And the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the first Criminal Court of the Crimean Tatar people is declared closed.
