ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u1	I'm asking the national deputies to prepare for registration. Please come into the hall. So please ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to sign up for the morning session. Please. [[10:05:00]] A total of 346 national deputies were registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dmitry Yuriovich Špenov. Welcome. [[Applause]] And I would like to remind you that, according to the Rules today, we have 30 minutes of speeches by Ukrainian national deputies. I emphasize once again, not from factions, not from groups, but from the national deputies of Ukraine. And I'm asking you to prepare for the recording, the recording will determine the sequence of statements. But in the beginning, I'll give you my word, three minutes, to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. And then we'll do the recording, and in this sequence, so that we don't crash those 30 minutes so that we can perform those 30 minutes. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u2	Thank you very much, Your Honor, my fellow Members. Now I'm going to talk about a very sensitive subject for the session hall: the hostages. And that's why I'm asking you not to shout, because it's an emotional story to me anyway. Dear colleagues, now in the session room, especially among the factions' leaders, there is a debate on what our last day will be, in fact, the day of the vote -- four and, in particular, on the Law on Reintegration, whether tomorrow this law can be the first one in the agenda, or whether we should consider it. I'd go first to my colleagues on the People's Front, who, I'm sure, like me, and all the other colleagues from all the factions: Self-help, Homeland, Solidarity, UKROP -- they're struggling today whether we can free the hostages. And I'm sorry, both from the Radical Party, and listen to what stage we're at and what impact that might have. As you know, colleagues have now been able to locate 95 Ukrainians in occupied areas. And we were ready for the release of 95 Ukrainians to hand over, in principle, all those who were allowed to do so by Ukrainian legislation under the sixth paragraph of the Minsk Treaties in order to free the boys. But this proposal, it's been blocked for 4-5 months, and that's why we've taken a very difficult step when we agreed to the following formula: that we're ready to hand over 306 people to free 74 of our heroes in the occupied territories. And now in this very thing, imagine what the problem is when we talk about 74 guys, while we know that women, there are 10 women in occupied areas, too. We will all have to explain to our relatives what the second stage will be and what a difficult story this will be. I want to tell you that in this month, which has passed since the day of the announcement that this may be the New Year's and Christmas holidays, we have done a tremendous job. And I want to tell you honestly, we have both the Attorney General's Office and the Penitentiary Service, and our courts, who are very responsible for what we are at this stage in the final line. We're ready to release the hostages, our hostages, and hand over the detainees, those who were detained on the grounds that they committed crimes against the state of Ukraine. And actually, what the problem is now is very serious. Problem with the next thing you know. First. Ukraine is seriously fighting for who will be on list 74, which is important. I'm not going to open any more stories, but you're all reading between lines. And the second. Do we have a chance that this is going to be torn down, even though we're on the finish line and we're completely ready, the chance is very big, I want to tell you honestly. Because we actually thought that everything was going to happen much faster than New Year's Eve, and we did it all.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u3	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u4	Thank you. Could it be that the other side will try all the sins again and again to say that Ukraine is guilty? So as with the SCCC, when it's obvious that the Russian Federation is pulling its military personnel out of the SCRC just to make things worse, in order to push Kiev into a direct dialogue with so-called republics, and that's not a republic. And actually, here I'm just going to appeal to, to the session room: let's go through this path with dignity, so there's no way to blame Ukraine for us, for everyone here, that's key and that they can't say, and that's what happened because. I want to remind you of our grandfatherline. Freeing the hostages, we have to do everything we can to make it to New Year's and Christmas holidays. My view that a law that is fundamental to us is a law that we must adopt this session. And these are two of our orientations that I think are completely normal. Thank you very much for your attention. And I'm sorry if I left some stories behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u5	Thank you. I'd like you to record a statement from the National Deputies. Please. I, colleagues, just want to remind you that our session will continue in January, and I am convinced that for all of us the adoption of a law that defines Russia as an occupying person is fundamental and important to the Ukrainian Parliament. Parliament has always taken a firm and principled position on this issue. And I hope and I'm convinced that we're going to be next plenary week, that if I'm not mistaken, on January 16th, we're going to start by considering the Act of Depopulation, the recognition of Russia as an aggressor. And now I give the floor to Father Taras Ivanovich. Oh, have you passed it yet? It's a cooper. Please, Vitaly Cupray.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! We all understand how a negative society appreciates the state of the fight against corruption in Ukraine, as our Western colleagues negatively estimate. But I'm absolutely sure that it's not a problem right now with the changes in legislation, the creation of anti-corruption courts, anything at all, I think that we have a problem with people in charge of law enforcement -- it's a personnel issue. I am absolutely sure that there are many powers that can be implemented, that crime can be stopped, that corruption can be punished, but so-called sabotage is carried out. Sabotage is a deliberate failure. Unfortunately, the Criminal Code does not have responsibility for this. So I put in a bill that provides for this responsibility, and in case a person who knows what he has to do, it's secured, the laws record his mandate, but he doesn't, he has to be deprived of his right to be in office and drawn to criminal responsibility. I've pointed out several times that personnel problems are the main ones. I did not vote in favour of the appointment of Attorney General Yuri Lucenka, who is completely unsavory, ignorant in the jurisprudence, and we see it now. I stated at the selection stage of Mr. Artem Sitnik's NAB Director that he was illegally chosen because he had hidden such important facts of his biography, and unfortunately, the President approved that decision. And now we have the newly elected director of the D.B.R., Roman Trubu. Roman Truba, we know from the media, got negative earlier conclusions when he was running for office. Moreover, he did not even fly to the head of the D.B.I., even to the deputy. We know that he was chosen at the last minute, and so when he appeared on our committee of law enforcement, I asked him specific questions. Please comment on the rumors or information, or do you know if you have a relationship with Mr. Pashinsky, as the media says that he was the one who was lobbying you for this position. He said no, and he's willing to prove it on a lie detector. Then I asked the second question that concerns the community right now: please tell me if you've been involved in the persecution of the members of the Dignity Revolution during the Euromapidan. It turns out, yes, and he said, "I've accepted, I've expressed suspicion, I've supported the charges, and I think I did the right thing against activists who blocked the road on the walkways of their own time," when Janukovic turned our country from Europe to Russia. So here, I have a response from the Attorney General of Ukraine, which actually happened, and after that, the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Lviv Region has closed down criminal conduct against Euro activists, and I would like to point out to you that there is no criminal offence in the activities of this activist. I mean, Roman Truba illegally persecuted -- and it's set up by the prosecutor's office, and by the decisions of the courts -- the activists who fought for Ukraine, for our European choice. Please tell me how this person is going to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, the national MP Sporish gives the word to the national deputy Chubarov. Please. And, colleagues, a very important resolution on Crimea was adopted yesterday. It is also a great credit to our leaders of the Crimean Tatar people. Well done! Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u8	Dear head, respectable citizens of Ukraine, colleagues! At a meeting of the UN General Assembly yesterday, a resolution was adopted on "The State with Human Rights in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the City of Sevastopol (Ukraine)". We have to thank every nation since the 1970s who voted in favour of the UN General Assembly Resolution. The co-sponsors of the resolutions, along with Ukraine, were 42 nations from different continents. These include virtually all European Union countries, the United States, Canada, Australia, Iceland, Norway, Montenegro, Turkey, Japan, and others. We pay particular attention to our relationship with Belarus, Armenia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, which have united around Russia, the aggressor country, and have taken a shameful stand by voting against the resolution. Noting from this rostrum the fruitful, effective work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, in particular the Minister and his deputies, at the same time I would like to draw our joint attention to the position of Belarus in the vote. Belarus, which positions itself as a country that supposedly provides a venue for dialogue and a meeting to end Russian aggression. So I'm absolutely confident that we have to offer another country to ensure the conditions for negotiations to ensure the territorial integrity of Ukraine and the cessation of Russian aggression. Prior to the adoption of the UN General Assembly resolution, repression in Crimea against Crimea activists was greatly intensified. On December 18, during one day, more than 60 Crimean Tatars were sentenced. Yesterday and today, mass courts in the occupied Crimea continue, in these days behind bars in the occupied Crimea in a literal censor, an understanding of this word dies of Asan Chapuch, who is denied emergency hospitalization, and he dies of a stroke. I cannot help but point out the need for the maximum mobilization of Ukrainian politicians, the entire Ukrainian society, around the restoration of the territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u9	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u10	around the restoration of the territorial integrity of Ukraine for the purpose of the depopulation of Crimea. Working systematically on various international sites, we, as members of the Majlis Crimean Tatar people, see expectations great from our partners of our internal mobilization. So I urge all politicians to join us together in 2018 for our main task.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u11	Thank you. I'll add one minute to all the performances, it's just that it's very important to. Please, one minute, but I'll add, I'll add plus one more time, one more minute. Thank you. I'm going to add up to 23 minutes now, one minute so our speakers don't come down. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u12	I just want to finish. This is what's coming from Crimea, which is what the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people call. We call on everyone: our main task in 2018 is the year of the restoration of Ukraine's territorial integrity, the year of the liberation of Crimea from Russian invaders. Thank you all very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u13	Thank you. And please, now the national deputy Shahov is handing over the word to Rudik. Please, Mr. Ruddick, let me speak to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u14	Dear Ukrainian people, dear colleagues! For a long year, our nation has survived, but a number of structural reforms are encouraging to look to our people for the future: pension reform, education reform, medical reform, judicial reform. But it was and is a problem number one in 2017, and unfortunately in 2018 will be the theme of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, their reinforcement and social protection of the military. We approved a series of drafts in 2017, which are also encouraging to look to the future. Our nation’s budget increases by 22 percent the funding of the Armed Forces. We have plus almost 70 percent for the new technology and modernization of the old. We have prospects, and we are protecting those who have fought socially, those who have been disabled, or, God forbid, have perished. Let me remind you that from now on, since 2017, compensation has been paid to the victim's family in the equivalent of 250,000 dollars, the disabled and the groups -- 637 thousand dollars, the disabled and the disabled -- more than half a million, and 382,000 dollars in the disabled group III. We have accepted standards that are applied to the housing of military personnel. I will remind you that during the years of the war, 4.5 thousand military personnel, 603 of whom this year, received new apartments. Sadly, though, we still have not solved the problem of military pensioners. I very much ask that the government take a quick look at the recalculation of pensions, there are at least 550 thousand, and maybe with all the strong structures, it's almost a million people. We still have the problem of providing land for ATO participants. I recall more than 220,000 military personnel, members of the military, have submitted their applications and are still wandering around the offices of the State Department, the local executive authorities, waiting for their land grant, which he deserved rightly. Finally. Society, we have a holiday near us, and it is a holiday with them. We voted that 25 is the weekend, 7 is Orthodox Christmas. I invite very many colleagues, I have sent individual letters to everyone with information about the trip to your boxes. Let us personally come to the front and welcome each of the military personnel with our own personal participation, bringing humanitarian assistance, giving them their support and thus showing that the army is with the people. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u15	Thank you for the initiative. Please, National Deputy Wilkul is invited to speak to his colleague Mr. Germany. Please, Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u16	Dear people of Ukraine! This week the Council ends its work this year, and the next session of the poor country's parliament, which is at war, will take place on January 16th. Think about it, throughout 2017, the deputies worked in this room from morning to evening and passed the laws of only 38 days, 38 more on Wednesdays and Fridays, that's the middle of the day, and it's mostly ratifications and performances. And here, after working 38 days a year, a dominant coalition, adopting antihuman medical, pension, and educational reforms, and raising the salaries of MPs to 40,000, are going to go to rest. Colleagues, we all have elderly parents and relatives who don't know how to survive a meager retirement. You don't see schools and hospitals closing down, people leaving and dying. We made a decision to get the board to start working on January 2nd, not January 16. We also need to provide additional plenary weeks directly by February 2. We demand that immediate laws be adopted to prohibit further increases in municipal tariffs, as well as prices for products and commodities of primary necessity, banning people from being evicted from housing for debts on utility. We demand that the anti-constitutional standards of pension reform, which deprives millions of people of their pensions, be abolished, require the adoption of laws that provide social protection for refugees. I've only been in politics for seven years, I've worked in industry for twenty years, and I have to go to work there. We are in favour of a pragmatic pro-Ukrainian approach and economic development. Industrial support laws must be adopted to give people a stable job in their home country and to ensure a real increase in wages and pensions, not a meager tax that will be consumed by inflation. First of all, peace must be restored. We've passed all these bills. The Council must finally make decisions that will allow people to live again in a more human way, otherwise, in a timely election. Let me underline, after winning the election, we're going to cancel these anti-human reforms and lower the tariffs on gas and heat twice because the gas cost is 700 dollars and it's sold to people by almost seven. We have a plan, we'll restore peace and reintegrate Donbas in six months, but it's important not to waste time and not let the country finally be destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u17	Please give the floor to Irina Lucenko, who is given the right to speak by national deputy Maxime Chicken. Mrs. Irina, I have a word with you. Please, the Ukrainian National Deputy, Representative of the President in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, on the eve of the conclusion of our legislative year, the Block of Petra Poroshenko insists on the need for a Thursday and adoption of Act 7363, initiated by the President of Ukraine, on the promotion of the creation and activities of small farms and the deconcentration of land-related powers. The bill regulates land relations, significantly strengthens the fight against corruption in the use of state and municipal land, and allows the unified territorial communities to manage their own land resources. In particular, the Presidential Bill provides that land owned by the State is transferred to the united territorial communities to municipal property outside the population within the jurisdiction of the community. Such demands are dictated by time. And all the united territorial communities look forward to that decision. It is worth noting that the adoption of this bill will significantly reduce corruption risks, as it will significantly strengthen the control of the communities themselves over their lands. It is evident that when united territorial communities own land, they themselves control the funds for their use, they will be interested in the most efficient use of their land. United territorial communities will be able not only to manage land but also to set rent rates for the use of water dancing land and agricultural land, thus regulating the local budget and stimulating investment in the agricultural sector. In addition, the law strengthens the protection of farmers from raids that become a real plague for the agricultural sector. In particular, the President of Ukraine proposes in his law to overcome the problem of double registration of leased land, to introduce clear mechanisms to resist counterfeiting of credit, lease contracts, and to prevent illegal change in business participants. In addition to increasing decentralization, Bill 7363, this bill is aimed at developing agriculture in Ukraine, particularly by legalizing family farms with the status of an entrepreneur. At present, this is the most effective and effective mechanism for rebuilding the village. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko, along with the President of Ukraine, believes that we cannot delay with such an expected and important bill. Therefore, we urge and ask Parliament to pay special attention in the last plenary days of the year to this particular Presidential initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. And now I'm giving 6 minutes to the people's deputy, Dobrenkov, who is given the word of his colleague Kolesników and Šurm. And then Mr. Odarchenko will speak from Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u20	Thank you very much. Respectable Ukrainian citizens, respected colleagues! The opposition bloc would like to pay attention to the economic situation in the country, because in this room, unfortunately, there is little information going on, and unfortunately, it is the rhetoric of war and the rhetoric of aggression that prevails. We wanted to point out that the Association Agreement signed by Ukraine and ratified by Ukraine did not change the economic situation in the country where we are now. Those factions that are now talking about the factions of the coalition that it's a panacea, and it's going to give a very serious impetus to economic development, these expectations have turned out to be vain and do not match the reality. Unfortunately, it's a terrible painting, and we have the exact opposite effect. If in 2013 exports amounted to more than $60 billion, it is now below $30 billion, the decline is double. In terms of our main trading partners in the cut-off countries, in 2013, the volume of exports to the EU was 16 billion dollars, in 2017, 14 billion dollars, and since 2014, the Association Agreement has been in place. Unfortunately, those tariff quotas set by European colleagues, our friends, in relation to the domestic producer, played a decisive role. In fact, in terms of basic commodity and export positions, and this is the product of an agro-industrial complex, it's the production of metallurgy, it's the chemical industry, it's because of the quantity quotas we're given, we can't increase the volume of exports to EU countries. Instead, what are we doing? We're cutting off traditional markets for the marketing of cooperative countries, especially the Russian Federation, as unpopular as it sounds right now. But to Russia in 2013, we were exporting 15 billion products, so just think about it, it's manufacturing, metallurgy, machine building, chemical industry. Now we're exporting 3 billion. What can we do to compensate for this? A lot of politicians who claim to be presidents who think they have high ratings say people need to raise minimum wages, pensions. Dear colleagues, how can they be promoted? GDP in 2013 is $183 billion. Now it's only reached 100 billion -- twice as much. Well, there can't be high wages in an economy that's staggering, that's constantly falling. The budget voted by members of the coalition, the factions that are de facto in the coalition -- because the coalition indicator is the budget vote, the major structural reforms -- is going to increase the minimum wage to 3,000 700. But on what account? Dear colleagues, this is not about economic development, because real GDP is increasing by 2, by 3 percent, real GDP is an indicator that describes the real state of the economy, and we are increasing by 20, by 25 percent, by 30 percent. This corresponding increase is due to inflationary processes. And this is not the achievement of this power. That's its disadvantage because it can't cope with inflationary processes without running the economy, exports are twice the drop, and the markets we've lost. And whatever it is that some factions of the coalition are shouting, you just can't convince both the numbers and the Derjkomstat, because the slogan is one, and the economy likes the numbers, it's math. In a poor economy, we can't have the tax system we have right now. Now it is said that after the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on State Budget, let us deal with the family, the children. Of course, it's important. The Opposition Block faction will support some legislative initiatives aimed at protecting children. But instead, we want to say that we need to worry about the economy first. But no country can be economically developed in the face of ongoing military conflict. And as it doesn't sound popular again, for peace and development, let's put peace at all costs. The words of Winston Churchill that politics is the art of compromise were echoed and quoted a great deal. But unfortunately, I'm not hearing any compromise from this rostrum right now. I would like all of us to have the wisdom to compromise, and on the basis of this compromise, we will achieve peace and develop accordingly. And finally, I'd like to add that there's no need to divide the faction here, who's a patriot, who's a bigger patriot, who's not a patriot at all. Seeing the development of a country that is different from the vision that you now have, coalition, doesn't mean that we're non-patriotic. We simply want peace in Ukraine, which would provide a permanent economic environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u21	Thank you. Please give the next speech, the national deputy Ivchenko, to whom his colleague Odarchenko gives the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u22	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues and respected Ukrainians! In 2015 this Supreme Council collected all the basic taxes from villages and villages. In 2016 this Supreme Council took away the entire agrarian tax system, 26 billion dollars was taken from the agrarian complex. In 2017, when the Rules are completely ignored, a bill has been drawn from an agrarian complex of nearly 10 billion dollars for the benefit of several oligarchic groups. So please tell me whether this Supreme Council works for the village, for Ukrainian citizens who live in rural areas, or for several oligarchic groups who receive incomes. Yesterday, an agrarian evening gathered by more than a thousand men. They're all worried about what's going on in the country where we're moving, how the agrarians are supposed to work, when he just can't understand what he's going to sow, how he can get the wages of his peasants when the renter just doesn't understand how to do his work. Tomorrow, 5,000 will go to the Supreme Council. And please come out and tell those who support these budgets for these three years, what you think about the village, what you've done with the village, and what you're planning to do tomorrow. Fatherland didn't take part in this farce. We have proposed, along with our colleagues, an alternative law, where we are completely overturning the misunderstandings that you stressed during the vote in the Tax Code. We're canceling this zero rate of compensation for certain cultures. Tomorrow I propose that we start voting in the Supreme Council right out of agrarian law, just the changes in tax legislation. There will be thousands of people. And I warn you, in areas where agrarian associations, we're not going to stop, we're going to talk to everyone by name, as you vote and what you propose. And finally, I ask my colleagues to always learn what you vote for. Because most of the deputies came to the agrarian party yesterday and said they didn't know what they were voting for. And I'm sure most of us here with higher education and most of us are studying, and I'm sure most of us knew that they were taking away the agrarian complex and for what amount. I suggest we start tomorrow and correct this disgraceful mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u23	Please now give the floor to the People's Deputy of Lubin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u24	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! I came back from my district, which is in the area of conducting an anti-terror operation, and I got a call from the guys who are standing on the ledge, that's a lot of fact trading, dealing with the invaders. A month ago, we gave you and me a political assessment of our colleague, Sergei Fishery. And I'd like to thank the leadership of the Radical faction, who didn't bury their colleague for their mandate, went out and made their own proposals to remove him from the leadership of one of the parliamentary committees, for which I personally thank you. But Oleg Valeriyovich, speaking to you, if there are such facts, there are facts of trade with the invaders, and the Denis Kazans conducted his investigation, he's also a migrant blogger. There are facts that Mr. Rybalka's company is already trading not only with the occupied area of Donetsk and Lugansk, but also with Crimea. Therefore, perhaps the time has come to give further political activity, especially since we know you as an absolutely principled politician. We have the facts at this point that the top managers of the Fisherman's firm are at the stake at the Sumskie SIZO, their names are Jabrailov and Forgiveness. And it's a disgrace to hear what they said when they saw, again, your political evaluation of when the boards were stationed somewhere in New York. We can't do this right now, especially after what's happening to us in the east. That's why we have colleagues -- I'm not going to call them by their names -- when there were such facts they didn't hide behind their parliamentary mandates, and one even took a political step and left this Parliament so there wouldn't be any political persecution. So perhaps this step should be taken too? And with the opportunity, I would like to address all the national MPs in the same way. It's Christmas, New Year's, Christmas, Santa Claus. Please find time, come to the front, thank the boys who stand by and protect us with you. They don't need much: just attention, some basic things. So I urge you all to come, and thank the boys for the front, and the more so that we have the next one. Sharpening in the mariuply direction, sharpening in the luganian direction. So let us be grateful to those who are here to protect us. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u25	And the last performance for today. Deputy Barna, may I have your word, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u26	Praise Jesus Christ! Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately yesterday, we did not have the appropriate number of votes to adopt Bill 7410, which, at the request of the communities, was able to transfer to the following year the state funds of the fund for the development of community infrastructure for their efficient and more rational use in connection with the end of the year. In view of the high time that needed to be corrected by the cost documentation project and the inadequacy between the regulatory and regulatory acts of the executive authorities, there was a situation where the costs could be lost. So tomorrow, I ask you to put this redraft to the vote and accept it. In addition, legislation has been registered to limit the allocation to one hand or to compatible state subsidies for farmers — a limit of up to 30 million. Moreover, there is a bill that allows the distribution of this grant not centralized from Kiev, but proportionally in the regions to the total area of agricultural land in each area. I think that this new methodology will allow not only to limit corruption risks, but to allow agriculture to grow evenly in all regions. Also a registered bill on the introduction of a majority election system in Ukraine, which will allow the new composition of the Supreme Council to finally become more national and more effective, not to mention "more decent", because the deputy of the Supreme Council is to be from the people, he has to report to his electorate and he has to work for the people, not the party clans or the oligarchs that finance party projects. Well, to the rest of my friends, I want to say that we have to build Ukraine together. When we start blaming each other and lying, we will never do that, because it is very easy to destroy Ukraine, but it is extremely difficult to protect and rebuild it. So the rating of Ukrainian politicians' top liars in New Time magazine showed who's who. Please take this note and make the right conclusions, because we are protecting and rebuilding Ukraine, and you are shaving Ukraine, cynically and wickedly. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u27	My colleagues, in fact, thank you for the talk. We had a couple of colleagues taking our time, and we promised to add a minute. And now from Self-Help, Alan Babak, and then there's a statement from two factions, then Maxim Burbak will make this statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, during the last week in Ukraine, there has been an increase in military action on Donbas, but the Ukrainian Parliament in the Canon of Christmas has rocked Ukrainian society, and the Gas Oligarchs failed the Law on the Prohibition of the Establishment of House Gas Counters yesterday. What will happen as of January 1, 2018, because of our shameful actions yesterday? Gas companies will have to shut down buildings that refuse to install house gas counters in accordance with the applicable Law on Commercial Gas Accounting - this is a rule of law in the current Ukraine. And you and I actually let this rule happen last night. Our regulator, Ukrainian, said that let those who can, want, set up their own apartment gas counters. But they forgot that 60 percent of Ukrainian housing today on subsidies and they can't find between 3,000 and 5,000 dollars to install these flat gas counters. That's exactly what gas companies are today setting up these counters for people. So, dear fellows, let's not make this a distraction in society, not call for peace in this room, but take real steps -- and tomorrow we'll put it on the agenda, and we'll take the whole of Law 5722, which will allow us to correct our disgraceful mistake yesterday. I ask all parliamentarians tomorrow to support this initiative called Self-Help and to put Law 5722 in order and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u29	Thank you, colleagues. That ended the performance block. And now we have statements, two statements from factions. Colleagues, we're looking at a rabbit vote right now to make sure everything's okay. First, instead of a break, a word is given to the representative of the Radical faction Victor Galasyuk. Please, Mr. Victor. There's a statement from two factions for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u30	Dear Ukrainians, dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Once is a coincidence, twice is a success, three times or more is a system. Ukraine is on the path of transforming its own economy from raw to industrial and innovative. Remember, we used to import sunflower oil from abroad. After more than twenty percent had been imported into the sunflower’s seed, Ukraine became the number one producer and exporter of sunflower oil in the world over the years. We're holding 55 percent of the world's sunflower oil market, $4 billion of U.S. currency yields to our country. That's the first one. The other one. You and I, at the initiative of the Radical Party in this room, have introduced a 10-year moratorium on the export of roundwood. See how this moratorium works today: exports of finished products have increased to 40 percent in individual categories, and taxes have increased to 20 percent in dollars. Billions of additional investments have gone to Ukraine, there are dozens of new productions, there are tens of thousands of new jobs, to make Ukrainian raw materials work for Ukrainians: here's work, here's pay, here's taxes. Remember, you and I recently passed a new metallurgical law that raised three of the metal scrap metal exports, eliminating the critical raw material deficit for the Ukrainian mining and metallurgical complex, and provided the army with Ukrainian weapons and technology from the Ukrainian metal. Such a policy must be pursued in Ukraine. Today we are proposing a new important initiative in rural development and agriculture. We propose to return VAT compensation to the agrarians that have recently been abolished, but, at the same time, immediately accept the agrarian and raw collection. In order for three percent of all raw crops to be exported from all the agross — wheat, corn, rape and all — to be paid to the state budget, to the special fund, and from there, directly automatically, to the supply of Ukrainian farmers, small farms. That means four and a half thousand dollars of donations for every cow in the village, which means real support for an agrarian complex, not for farmers, not for raw oligarchs. This means rebirth of the Ukrainian village. This is our proposal principle. And I'm calling on all the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the establishment of an agrarian and raw material assembly to restore animal production, to develop agricultural cooperation and to rebuild the Ukrainian village. Because the village is the soul of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u31	Thank you. And the last statement for today from two factions, it's a relative break, was a reference. And it's replaced by a statement from Maxim Burbak, leader of the People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind all of our deputies that the People's Front faction has done everything in its power to create anti-corruption bodies in our country. This, I want to remind you, was one of the requirements of our European partners for granting the visa regime to our country, for us to start a real fight against corruption. Prime Minister Arseny Yatsenuk has done everything himself, a coalition government, to make these organs designed to be sufficiently funded. For two years now, you and I have been in charge of budgeting and funding to make them work effectively. And we're all interested in their effective work. We've created the NABU, the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, NAMK, and I repeat, we must do everything we can to make them work effectively. And so all these corrupts and bribes are behind bars. And so I urge all factions, all the politically responsible people's deputies tomorrow to vote in favour of repealing the anti-corruption law that stands, and this is a matter that stands in order of the day, in order to clear the way for the President of Ukraine to submit a bill on anti-corruption justice. And this will give a step and a powerful impetus to ensure that the newly created bodies work effectively to combat corruption. And we'll finally see the corrupts behind bars. There will be an anti-corruption committee meeting today. And we insist that the committee should perform its functions and develop a procedure for considering the appointment of an NABU audience. I'm talking to all the factions, all the public organizations that are fighting corruption, to make their proposals for candidates for an NAB audience. And we must finally choose publicly, transparently, so that the entire country can see the process of selecting the NABU auditor from the Supreme Council. And this process needs to be started. Next. We've all heard a statement by Irina Heratchenko's representative of Peter Prashenko's Block with what's now going on in the process of releasing our captives, the exchange of prisoners. And I want to reaffirm the position of the People's Front. We have stated publicly that we are ready to vote in favour of a bill that envisions the restoration of Ukraine's territorial integrity and for a bill that defines Russia as an aggressor country. Once again, I am ready to confirm that we publicly support this bill. It's needed by our nation. Russia must be recognized as an aggressor. And we have to do everything we can to get 226 votes, rather than 300 votes, so that the entire Parliament can testify to its political will in this process. So if our colleagues, and, we understand, without the faction of the BP, we can't do that, if they still understand, support this bill, but they still hesitate, and there are valid reasons for its transfer, I think this bill of the People's Front is ready to be supported at any time. Please, let's bring it in and collect the votes, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u33	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u34	Because yesterday, when Parliament failed to vote for a bill on counters, we see what discipline is in the room. I understand the full responsibility that Parliament must bear for making decisions that make a contribution to the country. So we don't have to raise 226 votes, we need 300 votes. And I'm sure that the first plenary week, the first question of the next plenary week, should be the bill to restore Ukraine's territorial integrity with regard to recognition by Russia as an aggressor country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u35	Thank you. So, colleagues, the speeches are over. And I want to let you know. By the way, I'd like everyone to come into the hall right now. Please invite all the deputies to the hall. As I said at the Conciliation Council, we have five draft decisions on the annulment of decisions: both on the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine, and on the Budget Code, and also on the continuation of the ban on the alienation of agricultural land. In order for me as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to have the right to sign these laws and to be able to clarify them, we need to consider these draft regulations and today we need to consider them. And, colleagues, I also reported this on Monday at the Conciliation Council. We'll be able to do the details tomorrow. But in order for us to be able to elaborate tomorrow and I could sign these bills, today we have to consider all five regulations. But before that, my colleagues, as I move on to those regulations, I'd like to see the level of support for ratifications in the hall. I would like us to now conduct a rating vote to support the ratification of the Republic of Moldova and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And I ask everyone to participate in the rating vote. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. Please come into the hall. So, colleagues, once again, there is now a rating vote for support. And I'm asking the Regulatory Committee to have Lubinec's deputy come in for reports and orders. I ask the factions to mobilize the deputies now for the vote. So I would like to stress that I am now putting a rating vote to support the draft Law on Ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova. You're ready, aren't you? So please take part in the rating vote to support this ratification. Please vote, please support. Rating vote, please. Please. [[10:57:42]] For-188. Thank you, colleagues. And let's move on to the regulations. We're determined to be. We're going to be the ones who are going to be the ones that are going to be the ones that are going to And probably the first decision that we're going to put on the table is the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 07.12.2017 on the adoption of the entire draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2018 (number 7000). And I want to remind you that the decree is five, four of them the author is Levchenko, and one of them is Musak. That's why I'm asking Musak to come to the hall. And I want to remind you that consideration of these regulations does not require a special decision, they are considered by a reduced procedure, i.e. the author's report, the committee's report, and then "two for, two for, two for, against," and statements from all the factions. Let's move on to ruling 7000. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Levchenk Yuri Volodymirovich. Please. Please, Mr. Yuri, the microphone is on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u36	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. So when the draft State Budget for 2018 was adopted, I was told that it should be accepted in running, in violation of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because, you see, we have to do it urgently, we have to hurry, we can't get there and so on. And today we see that we have a full plenary week that's not actually being used. We see that the Ukrainian national MPs are not going to work, and now we could have a normal look at the state budget of Ukraine. Instead, the State budget of Ukraine was considered totally illegal, the amendments of the people's deputies were not considered, the first reading, as it was supposed to be according to the budgetary process, was not considered, they refused to be discussed. And why is this being done? This is obviously to hide the truth from Ukrainian society about Ukraine's State budget, because Ukraine's government budget, which was approved for 2018, contains positions that increase significantly the expenditure on executive power, increases the expenditure on office equipment, greatly increases the expenditure on the police state. And at the same time, the increase in education, medicine and the Armed Forces of Ukraine is much lower than the increase in the area that I've just pointed out. So instead of looking at the amendments of the people's deputies, the whole country will hear who is who, so that the whole country will hear who wants to take away, for example, the police who are covering the oligarhat today, and pass, for example, on to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, transfer it to medicine, refuse to do so, illegally refuse to do so in violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So in fact, I demand that this decision be annulled illegally and that we go through the full procedure and look at the State budget as we should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear Mr. Jury, as you know, when we're considering draft decrees for the annulment of the Supreme Council's decisions, these apriors' orders are being followed by a reduced procedure. That's why we're discussing it now in a reduced procedure, not a full one. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that, on December 19th, a meeting of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was held on behalf of the Speaker of the Supreme Council, at which a draft decision on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 07.12. on the adoption of the entire draft budget for the authorship of the Ombudsman of the People's Deputies was considered, and the committee decided to propose that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be decided by a vote on the adoption or rejection of this draft regulation. That's why we're going with you now to discuss the ruling and then we're going to vote. I'm asking you to sign up for a faction discussion: two for, two against. Thank you. Please, the national deputy Eutuszk passes the word to Yvchenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u38	Vadim Yvchenko faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues! What is the country’s state budget? It's a culture that's underfunded in this budget, it's a medicine that's underfunded in the original chain, it's an education that's actually been lied to and not implemented by the law on three minimum wages for our teachers, it's a social cost, half of them cancelled, part of them passed on to local governments, and most of them haven't been indexed for three years, it's an agrarian complex where they've taken nearly 10 billion in disgrace. So who did you take the budget for? You've adopted a budget for the state service, you've adopted a budget where you've increased the maximum wage, you've adopted a budget for the President, where you've increased the cost of maintaining the administration and the apparatus, you've adopted a budget to increase the salaries of the deputies and the general cost of the Supreme Council. And if you're talking about the Ministry of Defense, tell the truth. The budget of the Ministry of Defence is smaller than the budget of the Attorney General's Office, the National Guard, and all law enforcement agencies that do not work on front and back. In fact, you've adopted an antisocial budget. You've adopted a budget in which you've maximized your salary and increased your maintenance. So we propose to support the decision of colleague Lewchenk, to go to the maximum possible discussion of all the budget articles and to correct everything that we are with you today, as discussed in this rostrum, and continue to accept the budget, but socially directed at every individual, for every citizen. He needs to see in this budget first of all, a person who is a citizen of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u39	Thank you. Colleagues did not identify the factions and failed to sign up for the discussion. I give my word to Maxim Burbak now. We're discussing a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the entire draft budget. The State Budget Act. I emphasize that 270 national deputies voted for the budget. And now, please, Maxim Burbak, your position, your faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! We're now considering a regulation that seems to stall the budget process in Ukraine when it's adopted. I want to remind you that for the first time since 2002, we adopted the budget, not under the tree, but by working hard on December 7. And now the local councils, the district councils are already holding their sessional plenary meetings, and they're adopting budgets for areas, cities, villages and villages, so that everyone can come in with planned income and expenditure in a new year. We do. The previous reporter now said that everyone should see themselves in the budget. Surely they see themselves in the budget. And I think it's the position of the People's Front that we should see in the budget from January 1st to fund our Armed Forces, to fund national security and defense at least 5 percent of the gross domestic product. These factions, which have not voted in favour of the budget for the last three years, are now telling us how they are complaining about our Ukraine, how they want to restore territorial integrity, defense. Instead, they never voted to support our army in order to continue the reform of the National Police, to support all local budgets, to support decentralization, and to anticipate expenditures and additional revenues to local budgets, in order to continue the process of voluntary unification of the territorial communities. These are the factions that break the country's budget process and disrupt the recovery of the economy. Because I'm sure the budget for 2018 is an economic development budget. And all the proposals of the People's Front and all the coalition's proposals are included in it. And this is a continuation of pension reform, a continuation of education reform, a continuation of medical reform. So I'm sure that none of the decisions that slows down the adoption of the January 1 budget in order for it to come into force will find support here. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I propose to vote with a red button for such anti - state proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u41	Thank you for clarifying the position of your faction. Now, in the same way from the Peter Prashenka Block, the National MP of Spiowakovsky will take a stand. I would like to remind you that during the discussion of the draft budget, there was a serious discussion about the additional financing of vocational schools, and this is exactly what our esteemed colleague wants to add. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u42	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to say a few words about what worked and what the education budget failed to do. First of all, I'm pointing out that the Education Act, which we passed, starts with a gradual wage increase of 25 percent for teachers. That's good. But the problem of the imbalance that we now have. We need to think about how to increase the proportion of pay in higher education institutions, in technical schools, and in the preschool system. We have to level this up. The fact that the teacher where the salary goes is normal. Higher education and preschool education -- we need to level this up. And this is a job for the Cabinet of Ministers. Next. Technicians and colleges. We found, along with you, an appropriate amendment, 24th, for technicians and colleges. We were able to find a compromise with you that allowed 371 technicum and colleges to be left on the state budget through funding universities. But this is now a challenge for Minfin and for the Cabinet of Ministers, which has to find 1.9 billion dollars in order to provide funding for technology and colleges that are within the structure of universities and to provide them with adequate funding not only because they are approaching, but also because of the fact that part of the subsidies that should go on the average must be returned to universities. This too needs to be resolved. We also opened a window for technicians and colleges that are now legal persons to decide whether they're on the local budget or they're going into university structure. In doing so, the decision goes automatically, is confirmed by Kabmin, provided that two working groups support the decision and the decision is supported by the owner.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u43	Thank you. Please, the Radical Party factions have not yet registered. And Victor Halasyuk plays, and then Igor Shurma from the Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u44	Dear Irina Volodymyr, dear fellow national MPs! In this budget package, we've adopted a few very important standards for our economy. I'm very grateful that you've supported the two-year schedule of import VAT for all manufacturing equipment in the country, which applies to everyone without excluding the Ukrainian industry, because by now our bill has been in Parliament for almost a year and has not been reviewed, and thank you for supporting this amendment. Today, the entire Ukrainian industry receives this huge investment stimulus. All those who are going to create new productions in Ukraine, all who are going to expand existing production in Ukraine, who are going to buy manufacturing equipment, technology, they get, in fact, a two-year non-performing loan from the state in the bracelet, because the import VAT is going to have to be paid not immediately when the equipment is imported, but within two years. And that's very important. Besides, it's very important that we finally get the import VAT, the excise duty, just like before, on the car. Because it's supporting innovation, it's supporting ecology, it's a step towards Ukraine's energy dependency. But that's not enough. We also have to accept a package of incentives for all productions in Ukraine through industrial parks to compete and win competition for investment, jobs and high wage levels in Poland, Turkey and Slovakia. You and I can now bring in an agrarian and raw collection in this budget package, by restoring VAT on crops that have been abolished, but by introducing a three-per-cent agrarian and raw material collection into all technical cultures, on their exports, at the expense of this donation to each cow of four and a half thousand dollars, it is very important for the development and support of the village, and this needs to be done now. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, Igor Shurma, two minutes. You'll be out of town, I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u46	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, the Opposition Block did not support the draft budget for 2018 and did not support only for one reason. People's social protection, economic development, and the country's steady economic development are not foreseen. On the health issue alone, I'm going to show you that it's not a budget, it's a budget. A bill, Law 6327, was passed in this session hall, which has no bearing on the reform of the health system. But it is stubbornly called health reform. Whoever, while trying to read the text of this bill, has now seen that the law states that 5 percent of the gross domestic product is needed to implement changes in the health - financing system under this law alone. What's allocated in the budget doesn't even allow you to run this bill alone since January 1st. Although all of these wastes, who are trying to fool people, have said that this reform is coming from January 1st. She will enter from the second half of the year for the reason that they will try to find money there. Under such circumstances, we can say that it is not reform. The same is true of pension reform. I'd go to our pensioners: don't be happy with that allowance, because any tariffs, subsidies will take away those pensions, and no improvement, unfortunately, you won't get. After all, who will be responsible for this budget? First of all, the coalition is composed of 300 men. I address all the factions that have left the coalition but have not left the post of head of the committees of heads, secretaries and deputies. As long as you have those positions, you are members of the coalition, and this will be a mismanagement, where there is no minister of agropolitics, the Ministry of Health of the Tenants.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u47	Thank you. In a minute, please. Now Maxime Chicken and Andrew Teteruk are demanding words. And I would like to remind you that Mr. Chicken also made a lot of amendments to the Budget Act when we voted on it, and Mr. Teteruk wants to focus on the issue of the army. Please, and then let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, we have put together a very ambitious task for the next year, and this is a task of economic growth. And today, trying to block the signing of the Budget Act is an effort, a diversion to this increase. It's not gonna work. Who's trying to do this? Those political forces, the people's deputies who are used to living by the principle: the worse the country is, the better it is for their ratings, the political forces that only build their ratings on destructive criticism, and they don't offer anything at all. So you won't. That's why, dear fellows, we have to break this decree now. We have to execute the budget next year, increase social standards, increase the internal gross product -- we have to strengthen Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u49	Thank you. Please, Andrew Teteruk. And the summatory word then the author of Mr. Levchenk's decree. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u50	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, the distinguished Ukrainian people! The adoption of the budget is an important process of Parliament's work, which determines which. As a financial document, it will allocate taxpayers' costs to more important sectors of the development of our state. It's not just a defense sector that, under the insistence of the People's Front, we're allocating 5 percent of GDP so that our military can protect our country from external aggression, our special forces can protect peaceful cities from terrorist threats. But it's also educational, it's both medical and other areas that need our attention and control. Instead of patriots who are patriotic, let's say, slogans, they're trying to disrupt the orderly development of our state. We should not engage in provocation, vote with a red button for this decision, and move forward in the process of building our state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u51	Thank you. Please, Lechchenka, one minute. And the one who sums up your speech, and we vote, fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u52	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Here are all speakers, mostly from the ruling oligarchic coalition, who talked about what a good budget is, somehow none of them have been able to respond to the obvious fact that the Ukrainian Law has been violated, once again, the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely, articles 157 of the seventh part, where it is clearly stated to black people in white that if national MPs insist on amendments, these amendments should be considered. Everyone's been talking like that, what a good budget, how great everything is. Lying is said to say that 5 percent in the Armed Forces, although in fact two and a half percent in the Armed Forces and the rest in the police apparatus. They tell lies about how it goes up to medicine, to education, and actually it goes up a lot more to the executive authorities. So why didn't anyone mention breaking the law? And because perhaps the law was being violated to hide the truth about the budget from Ukrainian society? But you will not be able to hide the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u53	Colleagues, we are moving to a vote in favour of the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 07.12.2017 on the adoption of the entire draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2018. Please make up your mind about this decision. Thank you. [[11:18:41]] For-64 By factions, please show me. 65 MPs have supported this position. The decree is rejected. And this opens the way for the signing of the draft budget for 2018 by the Head of the Supreme Council and the transmission to the President of Ukraine. Colleagues, we are moving on to the following decision: the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 07.12.2017 on the adoption as a whole of the bill on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (registration number of this regulation 7116, please P). I invite you to the rostrum of the author of the decree of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Colleagues, you'll find out what we vote for when we vote. Okay. To your word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u54	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. On the same Thursday, the so-called budget Thursday, the Supreme Council stressed many different oligarchic mythical absolutely out of violation of the Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in particular, the relevant amendments to the Code of Budget and voted again with a loud violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm going to point this out all the time, because unfortunately, most of this room is oligarchy, most of them in the Presidium treat this law very often as some kind of urinal that is not to be done, and that's the law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u55	Let's not say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u56	And it needs to be done. Thus, the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine says that before the second reading, a table of amendments should be given in 10 days to the people's deputies. And how did we get this amendment table? We got it fresh, from under Xerox. I remember when they gave me this table under the Budget Code, it was hot, they had just pulled paper sheets out of xerox, and three minutes before the vote, they gave the people's deputies a huge table like that, on a few hundred pages. So a normal national MP can handle this, a national MP who really wants to be interested in what he's voting for? Is that possible? Even if you assume that everything is great there, is it possible to process such a document normally? Obviously not. And obviously why is this being done? Once again, to hide from society the truth that is being pushed into such documents. And in this document, what was. What did they do, push you? Further transfer was made to local self - government bodies, not local self - government authorities, and the transfer of many benefits to local self - government bodies that are not backed up by this, in fact, income - related functions. That is, the balance of local self-governance, the budget balance, was worsened. So this illegal decision has to be overturned, and we have to walk normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u57	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a committee was also held on December 19th, a meeting of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where a draft decision on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 07.12.2017 on the adoption as a whole of a bill amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine under the authority of the National Deputy Yuri Lewchenk. And the committee's decision: to propose the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be determined by voting on the adoption or rejection of this draft decision. Now we're moving on to her discussion. And I'm asking you to sign up for the faction to discuss Lechchenk's ruling. Please, Maxim Burbak will take the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u58	Dear Ukrainians, I'm asking you to take a close look at these speakers, the initiators of these regulations. The officials of the district councils, the esteemed heads of the city councils, the rural, village councils that are looking at this week’s local budgets, which encourage deputies to vote in order for the country to enter the new year with a budget and all expenses were financed as of January 1st! Respectable budgeters, who have been raising minimum wages since the new year and will be raising wages! Respectable pensioners, the budget for pension increases and pension payments! Dear citizens, who receive subsidies for the heat of the heating season! Look closely at these faces and remember them. They are those who have never voted for the budgets, but they shed crocodile tears on this rostrum and tell us how they save for the population. I want you to remember them, tell your neighbors, your colleagues, your family, because very soon, two years later, they'll be in the election campaign telling you how they'll fight for you, and instead they'll get here, and they won't vote for the budget in any way. And now I want to publicly reaffirm that this budget meets all the requirements of the People's Front: 5 percent of GDP in support of national security and defence, the continuation of educational, pension and medical reforms, the continuation of road construction and the repair of roads, the continuation of fiscal decentralization and the unification of territorial communities -- all of these gains are in this budget. And in no way did the People's Front faction vote for the previous decision, and for that decision, it will not give a single vote either, because it is an anti-State decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u59	Thank you for your position. Please, Ivchenko National Deputy. Sobolev, Sergey Sobolev. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u60	Dear fellows, our citizens! Do you have any idea what you're talking about? We're not talking about the budget, you've forgotten something, it's the Budget Code. So when you comment, at least understand what you're talking about. And now, on the subject of the Budget Code, that is, you've managed to destroy the agrarian sector in order to ensure that processors are not able to obtain VAT compensation in rural areas. So you voted for it? Look at the factions that voted for it! So you voted to cut the local budget? If they worked, if they opened the gas in their territories, if they opened the small business, did you vote for it? And you first took the elephant into the house, telling them that we were going to remove 70 percent, and then you donated 30 percent of the local budgets that you would still delete. So you voted in this budget code for budget structure, where no oligarch would pay a salary under the Transfer Price Act? Did you vote that the entire salary should still be at Ukrainian level and the income of the oligarchs should still be at European level? So you set up a procedure in this Codex of Budgets, by which virtually all forms of budgeting will go without taking into account the unified communities? So repent today. Because that's what you did when you gave the army less than the force structures in terms of war, and that's your responsibility for this budget code. Thank you for nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u61	Now, please, from the Peter Dust Block. They're determined. And now from the Opposition Block, the national deputy of the Shurm. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u62	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Discussions are continuing on the rules of the game to fill Ukraine's budget. I would like to say that by adopting this law, there is absolutely no guarantee that the money in the state will be enough for all the reforms that are being undertaken. If this were indeed reforms, there would be no problems today with receiving further loans from the International Monetary Fund, and we have not heard his voice yet. And think about the moment when the same majority will make changes and additions to this 2018 budget in order to ask for money once again and to go into the next hole in debt to the International Monetary Fund. But that's not what I'm talking about. Today, each of us can clearly say that money for health - care changes is not enough. The money for the so - called reform is not enough. Today, there is a reduced amount of money for people to pay for subsidies. What does that mean? It's like a pension was raised, but they're going to take the subsidies. Where to get the next money? And I'll tell you, we're putting an end to the war. If we stop the war, the army's spending will go down. If we put an end to the war, crime will gradually fall, and strong structures will be reduced. Who should do that? First of all, the one who runs the rules of the Supreme Council is a coalition. Please take steps to make concessions. No one by the power of peace ever reaches. Then the 300 - person coalition continues to talk about it. Until those factions have removed the positions of heads, deputy heads of committees, secretaries, you are members of the coalition, otherwise leave. As it may be, sitting in the Presidium of the Supreme Council and not being in the coalition, you've been given these positions by the coalition. This Council has exhausted itself, it must resign.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u63	Colleagues, are there others who have not been able to sign up for this decision? None. We are moving on to the vote, and once again I stress that this is a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 7 December 2017 on the adoption as a whole of a bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code. The author of this decree, Yuri Lewchenko, urges him to give him a minute of his word. Please, Mr. Levchenko, summed it up. And we're going to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u64	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Again, during the discussion, the representatives of the oligarchic coalition did not explain in any way why they were violating the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, why the amendments were not made in advance, why no other plenary weeks had been used to properly deal with this, because they tell us that there is no time to break the process. Then work properly, not on the Maldives. Instead, national security and defence were discussed. Well, it's not national security and defense is oligarchic security and defense. Because five percent are given to the police, not to the Armed Forces, but to the police state 2.5 percent, but to the Armed Forces 2.5 percent. So whose defense is this? There was talk of educational reform. It's not education reform, it's the destruction of the rest of education. About pension reform. It's not reform -- it's pension fraud when they're up to a dime, and millions of people lose their pension at all. So if you'll excuse me, please tell people the truth. People deserve the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, we are moving to a vote. At the same time, let me point out that, for the first time in 26 years of independence, Ukraine has allocated 5 percent of GDP to the defence and security sector, and this is to be welcomed. Even if you are in opposition to power, you cannot be in opposition to Ukraine. We have been appointed Honorary Colleagues under the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 7 December 2017 on the adoption as a whole of the bill on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code. Vote. [[11:32:28]] For-41 41 Only the National MP supported your decision, so it is considered rejected. And this opens the way for the signing of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code by the Speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the transmission of this document to the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we're moving on. And this is the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 7 December 2017 on the adoption of the first reading on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law on the amendment of Chapter X of the Transitional Positions of the Ukrainian Land Code on the continuation of the ban on the alienation of agricultural land. The author of the decision is national deputy Alexi Musak. Mr. Alexia, we invite you to your word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u66	27, just 27 years ago, the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic adopted a decision, but it was called "For Land Reform". Unlike the Eighth Council, an already Ukrainian independent state, the former communists have found power to determine that the land is private property and relations must be marketable. On December 7, when we voted in favour of extending the moratorium, not only the rules of the Rules were violated, but there was no compliance with the deadline for the submission of alternative bills. In general, there were grounds for meaning, logic, justice, and virtue. For one simple reason. Friends, well, in the 21st century, Ukrainians should no longer be allowed to dispose of their land freely. How's that?Oh, my God! Well, people want to go to Mars, and we want to go to Ukraine. We feel that he cannot properly manage his land! That's nonsense! Moreover, how can a Ukrainian in his country have less rights than, for example, he has in Poland? Well, in Poland a Ukrainian can buy land, and in Ukraine he can't buy land. That's Brad! The second ingredient is a violation of property rights. Many of the reporters who have spoken to me on a variety of issues say about economic development, about the need to develop an economy, to engage in investment, a lot of other things. But, colleagues and friends, well, how can we talk about investing, how can we talk about respecting some property rights when you, for example, had some deposit, derivatives, shares, something else? If the base asset is land, but you don't own it, if you're not allowed to sell or buy land -- the base asset itself, that means that ownership rights don't exist. And that means, in fact, that's okay, if we choose this form of economic development, and essentially that's the land development format.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u67	One minute to finish, an important topic to discuss.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u68	If we choose the format of the earth’s fortifications, then there will be those who will respond accordingly. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to cancel the decision, the disgraceful decision that we have made about the introduction and continuation of the moratorium and giving Ukraine finally land freedom. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u69	Thank you, Sir Alexia. Please. Wait, please. For explaining your decision. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that, as instructed by the Head of the Supreme Council, Andria Paruba, on 11 December of this year, a Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was held to consider a draft of the Supreme Council's Resolution on the lifting of the decision of the Supreme Council of 7 December on the adoption of the first reading on the basis of the draft Act of Ukraine amending Chapter X of the Code of Land of Ukraine on the continuation of the ban on the alienation of agricultural lands submitted by Ukraine's national deputies Musak, Brigin, and others, only 9 national deputies. And here it was decided that the committee would also recommend that the session room be determined by voting on the adoption or rejection of the draft decision. I'm asking you to sign up for her discussion right now. Thank you. Please, Vladimir Ariev is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u70	Thank you, Irina. I'd like to start with a different number. Alexi Musak started at 27, I'd like to start at 100. A hundred years ago, a decree on land was signed that effectively prohibited landowners, peasants, farmers who were then called chickens to manage their own land. This decree has been signed by Vladimir Ilchi Ulyanov, known to us as Lenin, the world criminal who has done the thing that we do today, we are still digging up and we can't get to the bottom of it. Hence, all who today vote for the land to remain in Communist slavery are now faithful linens, communautaires, and descendants of those who destroyed Ukrainian agriculture. So I just want to remind everyone that Ukraine is now on the list of countries that do not have the land’s free run. Other than Ukraine, this is Cuba, Venezuela, North Korea, Congo, and Tajikistan. If we want to reform, as in North Korea, then we can do it, but I will definitely oppose it. Three years in a row. I have voted and will vote against the continuation of the moratorium. Please don't shout, you've shown that you're a faithful sloth, so we don't have to say this anymore. And I just want to say one thing that the earth must finally be free of all these communist superstitions that exist today. And today we have to break this vicious circle when we say every year that we have to adopt a series of bills to make the earth a free market, and then we don't approve these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u71	30 seconds to complete. I'm asking my colleagues not to interrupt. The discussion is very important. Yes, Your Honor, the head of the honorable faction, please don't interrupt. We are discussing an extremely important topic — the theme of the earth. Add 30 seconds to Vladimir Ariev, and do not shout.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u72	At the end of each year, we then adopt this shameful moratorium to ensure that the following year nothing is done or approved. So we have to finally break this vicious circle. I'm going to vote in favour and vote, and I'm going to call on everyone who's against the communists. A Communist legacy, too, to vote in favour of abolishing this disgraceful moratorium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u73	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's not your word yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u74	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u75	Dear colleague, I'll give you four minutes. That's the first one. But secondly, if you're using feminitis, it's not going to be "head," it's going to be "ma'am." "Heads" is somewhere where cows run somewhere else. Please, the "Fatherland" faction gives the word Sergey Sobolev. Please, please. "Head" is where, you know, Lenin was, there were "heads." And we have "Mrs. Head," "Mrs. Head."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, the authors of the moratorium order, I'd like to remind you. You, like Vladimir Ilchi Lenin, promised the land — the peasants, the factories — the workers, the women — to the men. Just got out of it, we all see. The land is in ten families. The factories are in Ahmtova, Dust and others. And women, without men and without wages, are looking for jobs around the world. These are your Lenin covenants that you are trying to implement in this session hall. Why did this session hall vote in favour of the extension of the moratorium? Because, unfortunately, in 27 years, the rules of civil order have not really been established. Because over the past 27 years, people like you have been sitting in a session hall, changing flags from Kravczuk to Kuchma, from Kuchma to Yushchenk, from Yushchenk to Prashenko, not forgetting Yanukovich. Because in your faction half of those who led the Party of Regions. And now they're all redecorated, they're already reformers. They've reformed! I think the key thing to do is to do it this year, even if this year is the end of a civilized market for land, where it will be the market of land for a farmer, not for latifundists, whose nephews, cousins and others are going out to this rostrum today, without paying even 5 percent to the peasants, as the Supreme Council demanded, picking up hundreds of thousands of acres of land every day throughout Ukraine! The last time in the Kirovograd district for a night of woe-notarius under such a latifundist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u77	One minute, yes, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u78	He rewritten 300 acres, taking from people the last thing they had. That's the purpose of yours to cancel today's moratorium immediately. But unfortunately, the option of the Fatherland faction, where we wanted to ban emphitheus, where we wanted to ban so-called future land alienation contracts, which are now going massively across Ukraine, was not supported by this hall. So I think we don't have to make this decision, but we need to go back to the Fatherland Project and at this transitional period ban any form of land alienation to prepare ourselves for the official market of land where the farmer will be the owner of the land, not the lattifunds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u79	Please, from the Opposition Block, the Shurma People's Deputy will be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, to begin with a bit of licorice. When I went to Andrey Paris yesterday and said "head," he got offended and said he was "head." I have to tell you, there's no head in the Presidium, there's a chair that belongs to the chairman. And Mrs. Irina was supposed to sit on this chair and be the chairman in the absence of the Head. And she's the presiding officer, and then there'll be Mrs. Siroid the presiding officer. I think we should all remember that. That's the first one. Second, don't worry, they'll give everyone three or four minutes, you know why, for discussion? Not just because the earth is very important, but because we don't have votes to ratify treaties today, there's no coalition in the hall. They're responsible for the ratification. And today they're going to take as long as possible not to get to the ratification laws, because it's a disgrace when the coalition can't get 226 votes. And now, as far as the earth is concerned. Do we have to make the earth marketable? Of course. People on earth want to have the right to this earth? They do. They want to sell it? They do. But here in the hall, I can't really figure out who's "lean" and who's "trotsky" and who's "trotsky," everyone says, "You can't buy one." Have you ever thought about those who want to sell? Until people have guaranteed ownership of their land and get the money for this land, there will be a dispute, as long as the Latifunds come to Ukraine and buy it all for hundreds of thousands of hectares. Thus, the question of moratorium today is relevant: Either we give people property rights and we vote, or else we must continue to be untouched. And the next. A colleague spoke and said whether a normal MP could read 300 pages a night. He can't. Where did you see the normal deputies? The normal MPs for the Law are voting for the med reform? No, it's not. Is education reform a normal vote? No, it's not. Is the normal MP going to stand up against the moratorium today? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, please. I see you haven't signed up for the People's Front yet. But first the head of the Radical Party faction Oleg Lazko, three minutes, three minutes. Equality. No, it's four. Well, I promised. I promised, but three.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u82	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Come on, fellows, talk to me clean. First. To the vice-president of the Supreme Council, Deputy First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Mrs. Irina Heratchenko. Mrs. Irina, with great respect to you, but when you're in the highest parliamentary rostrum all the time, there's cows running around, somewhere "heads" running around, I'd like to ask you with great respect to the people of work, to the villagers, because they're the reason you're sitting in this room, they're giving us food security for the country, they're making the country live, thanks to the villagers, 14 million people live in the village, don't talk about cows. I understand that as a child of asphalt, those cows don't care, but I want to inform you that unfortunately, with your policy, the cows in the village don't run because there are no cows in the village, because they've brought farmers to the pen and private farms, they've slaughtered people mostly cows. Today, in Ukraine, a million and a half million head of cattle. After Hitler in 1945, there were more than 2.5 million, now less than 2 million. In small New Zealand, where 5 million people, 40 million cattle heads, are 10 million cows. Here's a question of the country's food security. What will we feed the people? The imported sludge, the palm oil, the chemistry that's being imported from abroad for a penny to earn a barrel? And then people go with cancers of the gastrointestinal tract and they sell the last to treat it. Instead of adopting the law here, do you want cows running in the village? Accept our Law on the Prohibition of Palm Oil, so that Ukrainians eat natural dairy products rather than palm oil, and then it will be convenient to keep cows in the village. By the way, do you know when cows run? When people like you get in the way, they get stabbed. And the cows are walking. These are very respectable, serious, and authoritative sacred animals. Now, about what you have to do to restore animal life. My colleague Halasyuk spoke half an hour ago, unfortunately you didn't listen. We're proposing the introduction of an agrarian raw material assembly to a raw material that is being exported from Ukraine. Nearly 40 million tons of grains were exported from Ukraine last year instead of exporting pasta, flour, grains, and produce. We feed the whole world, and then on three roads we pay for French rolls and pasta. So in order to establish an agrarian and raw collection, 7 billion dollars is extra for the restoration of livestock, for the support of farmers, for the support of the singles. One-persons, in support of cooperation. And the question of the earth. The land must belong to Ukrainian peasants, not transnational corporations, which is what the authorities now want. We won't let you scrub the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I don't think there's anyone in this room who doesn't like a Ukrainian cow who doesn't respect a Ukrainian woman who works in a village. And by the way, most of the heads of rural councils are women. But these are heads, not heads of village councils. So once again, on behalf of all the heads of the women of rural council, I request you to call them respectfully "heads." And "heads" are in your own illusory world, where cows run from men with pitchforks, they're definitely afraid of them. And now we are discussing our important bill. Don't scare us with pitchforks. We give the floor to the representative of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbaku. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, here we are accused by former regionals of having no votes in the hall. But I can confirm that we are not going to give a single vote right now, and the People's Front faction has not supported these decrees twice, which have been halted by the adoption of the Budget Act for the following year. And we're not going to vote for that, either, because I think that these laws that we're passing by the majority in this room should work, and you're now using the regulatory procedure to slow down the budgetary process, to slow down the adoption of a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. Yes, this is a question of discussion, we need to announce a broad public debate on this issue. But I want to remind you, if you have a short memory, of the most basic latifundist who wanted to build a land bank and store a million hectares there that took Mezigir away from building his own space, you don't want to talk about it or forget it. So, my fellow Members, I think that we should consider all of these decisions that have slowed down the adoption of such important bills for Ukraine and don't waste our time, and don't stop reforming our country with your weak drafts. Thank you. We won't have any support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u85	Thank you for your position. Please, Mr. Sergei Kiral of Self-Help. Please come from the place, yes, two minutes, or three, it's like you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we are for the land market, we don't mind finding out, we don't mind canceling the moratorium, but we're for the land market. I remind you, the market for the land is some clear rules of the game, these are certain institutions that have to regulate this market. And I'm surprised to hear today, especially from the coalition representatives, from the two factions that have the majority in this Parliament, who urge us to cancel the moratorium and create what, anarchy? We know that anarchy is ruled by oligarchs. Under the conditions of anarchy, there are professional, experienced, highly paid lawyers who will leave the peasant without land. So put in place a draft law on regulation, on creation, on the circulation of the earth, name it what you want, create the right conditions and the right rules of the game, and open the market of the earth. That's the first question. The second question. Colleagues, those who return us today to 1917-1918, the time of Lenin Ulyanov. I'd like to remind you of another story, the Gehtman of Krapadsky, who ruled the country from April to December 1918. So even he determined that the priority of security and agrarian reform was in six months, not to mention 27 years, in six months, not to be able to implement agrarian reform, but even he took a decision by the Council of Ministers that peasants could sell land, but not more than 24 hectares and only the State Land Bank, and the rest, please buy and sell. Even he created certain rules of the game. Let's create and don't engage.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u87	Have you finished, Sir Sergey? Yes. Colleagues, it takes another minute of Solai and a minute of Chlan. And then we'll finish the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u88	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues! You know, when I listen to this "Yaroslava crying," as all our parliamentarians care about Ukrainian peasants, I'm reminded of the words of Ain Rand, who wrote the book "The Atlantic has spread his shoulders," which says that the biggest marauders who care most about words are their people, because if you care for their people, I'll give you a few figures. The average land lease in Poland today amounts to $250, 300 in Hungary, 280 in Argentina, and 70 dollars in Ukraine per hectare. Thus, it is fair to say that those who break up from this rostrum today for a moratorium on land are acting in the interests of those who do not want to pay more to Ukrainian peasants. That's the truth. Because the moratorium today does not support but destroys the village. Go and see what's happening in the country today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u89	15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u90	Is there a small farmer, or is there agricultural production? He's gone. So the faster we open and cancel the moratorium on land, the faster the Ukrainian land and the Ukrainian agricultural sector will become the engine for the development of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u91	Last speech, please, Mr. Chlan, which I understand also requires words from the representation of Ukrainian agricultural spheres.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u92	Sergey Chlan, Peter Dustock's Block. The third year in a row is a political show called the Moratorium. Because it's fiction. For chapter X of the Code of Land clearly states that the circulation of agricultural land will take place only after the adoption of the Law on the Circumstances of Agricultural Assignment. For three years, Parliament has been working exclusively with the adoption of a political law that contains nothing. What Is the Moratorium? The moratorium is that year after year our peasants, landowners, have bought up this land under various shadow schemes, and it has become the property of several people. Under the shadow schemes, the land of the land is polluted. Let's still take the moratorium, and in our peasants, there really won't be any land left that they can sell and trade good money for themselves, for their families.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u93	15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u94	they die and cannot exercise their constitutional right to manage their property. Do not take the constitutional rights of our citizens! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u95	Thank you. My colleagues, I want to say that now we're going to do it this way. There is still a requirement for a discussion procedure to be performed by the national deputy Yvchenka. I'll give you my word. And Mr. Lithuania. Please, Mr. Yvchenko and Mr. Litwin. Please, just a minute. In a minute, and we're going to vote now, colleagues. I'm going to continue the session for five minutes literally.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u96	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, villages or peasants are not an oligarch of our colleague who is on a yacht somewhere in the Maldives and rents millions of hectares of land or hundreds of thousands of hectares of land. We're going to have to start a village centered, village-sparing circuit where a farmer, a farmer, is going to get this land directly. If we're talking about circulation laws, let's be honest, they are. They are where this person offers 33 percent of the area in one hand! Well, what kind of circulation are we talking about when we have one-man farms or a shadow farm today?Oh, my God! What kind of circulation are we talking about when grants are the most received?Oh, my God! What kind of circulation are we talking about when only 500 companies are 500! - do they have loans in all state banks?Oh, my God! Colleagues, let's create an agrarian system, let's create family farms, let's get out of the shadows of single farms, and then have a discussion so that the land doesn't get to those who travel on yachts and get huge profits and buy these.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u97	Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, also from the rostrum. Alexia, you can sum it up because I see that head. The author of the decision then requires a summary word. Please. Please. In fact, we are having debates about the earth’s market. I think it's very important. This is very important! Please, Mr. Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm listening here to people who have corn in their hands, hands made, legs twisted, and that reminds me of, you know, such young fast bulls, but foolish. They have no obstacles, they put up with everything in their path. This is the result of looking at agrarian issues in a simplified way, as you're all looking at in our country. To make up your mind, just to report. So the proposal: this is a key topic, an important topic, in January, to set up one day of plenary meeting, prepare, invite experts and discuss the problem. And then we'll see that there's no problem, the land is no longer human, everyone's already taken. And for 49 years! Wherever you write, however you speak, the answer is one: All things are lawful. A. Give me some more.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u99	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u100	And those who look in the heads of district government to unknown people for 49 years give up land that is a common property of undistributed pie communities. He wrote to the President, the Prime Minister wrote, in the NABU, an answer to the Attorney General’s Office. Well, obviously, he wrote to the district administration. A month later, we were able to create a working group to study the subject. And there's no land. So once again, the proposal to consider this issue in January months and then to come up with a balanced recommendation for a decision on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u101	Thank you for your position. Lewchenko and Musak, from the nonfractional, sum it up. And we vote, colleagues. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u102	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. This is a vivid example of hypocrisy, which is constantly taking place in this room, is a speech by the head of the People's Front faction, who said that in the race, this decision should be rejected, because in the run, this law must be implemented. And it's the right law, it needs to be put into practice, this moratorium. But there is one "but" that was signed by several members of the People's Front faction. Well, I'm sorry, but the way you do it, it's kind of like that. Schizophrenia in the head turns out that we want to reject the type, but we sign, right? And in fact, trade in agricultural land is the only strategic resource left in the Ukrainian state and the Ukrainian nation. The problem is that we don't have a rule of law. If we had a normal law enforcement system, a legal system that worked normally, there would be no problem in a normal lease relationship, as it is, in most Western European countries. Because when lying from the rostrum, most countries say that they have agricultural land in private property, that is not true. Because they're huge.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u103	Thank you. Jehovah’s Kingdom, 1 / 15
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u104	Because in many Western European countries, huge percentages of the land itself is owned by the state, and the state has the right to rent. And that's what you have to do in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u105	Please sum up this important discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I am very glad that we are having a discussion today. And that's right, and it's different positions. And maybe if we discussed this at least ten years ago, we would have a land market long ago -- legal, official, and where taxes are paid to the state. Because at the moment, all the "against" speakers forgot to say one simple thing: the land market exists, it's bought and sold. [[Applause]] This time. The other one. There's only one, two shades. One: taxes to the state go zero. Second, the price is twice what it would have been in the open market. Therefore, respectable colleagues, those who speak for the extension of the moratorium, keep in mind this. This time. The other one. We're glad Fatherland is offering to bring the land order to an end. And I understand that you want to support the presidential bill, 7363, where just a lot of things are going to be resolved. You're going to get a replica, but it's not for me, it's a question before. I don't have time. Dear colleagues, the question needs to be resolved, not stuck in sand or concrete, and told again about the moratorium.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I've already given everyone the lines and the speeches. That's right, Oleg. Oleg, I can hear you very well. Now. Dear colleagues, my offer. Don't shout, you'll hear that I'm very wise as a presiding officer now. First, I really want to thank everyone for this essentially important discussion, which I hope we have initiated, a discussion that is going to take place both in the session room and outside the market for land. Second, I have my next offer. We're already going to vote, and then I'm going to give you a line to make sure. And we will conclude our meeting. So thank you again for both the author of the decision, and for all the speakers, what positions you would not take for this very important discussion that we should continue. And there were these initiatives. And we're going to vote on the draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 7 December 2017 on the adoption of the first reading on the basis of the draft Ukraine Act amending Chapter X of the Code of Land Transitions of Ukraine on the continuation of the ban on the alienation of agricultural land. Please identify yourself. [[12:06:06]] For-66 We have potential. A little announcement, and then your lines. Yes, dear colleagues, you know, I think this ad is important to everyone. We would all like the spirit of true parliamentaryism to return to our Hall. Thus, December 24 would be 80 years old for the head of the National Movement of Ukraine, the Hero of Ukraine, Viacheslav Cnervol, a legendary Ukrainian politician. And today, in the towers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there's a photo exhibition called Viacheslav Crnovil and Journalists. The exhibition will present 30 rare pictures, where Viacheslav Cnerovil, along with journalists from various media outlets, is located. And I think we're all happy to be with you now that we honor our esteemed colleague's memory, we'll end up opening this show together. I think it'll be very good, and we're going to talk about Viacheslav Maximovich with you. And maybe we're all also thinking about what is missing from Parliament's eighth call and what was in Parliament's first, second, third vocation, where there were such legendary policies. I'm closing the session. And I'll give you a word of motive. We'll start with that. I'm sorry, okay. Now, please, a word then. And after that, well, there's a requirement, there's a requirement. Please, Mr. Laishka. Then Ivchenko. And I'm closing the morning session.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u108	Land market, according to WFP representatives, is a market for land. I want to tell you that there is a drug market, and there is a prostitution market, and there is a arms smuggling market. But these are all illegal markets, criminal markets. And so the criminal market of the land that you're running with the support of the oligarchs in Ukraine is the loot of the peasants. What does the Radical Party team suggest? Amendments to article 41 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which states that agriculture is the foundation of Ukraine’s agricultural system. And once and for all, put a dot in the question: Whose land? It's not Kalittina, it's not the transnational corporations, it's not the latifunds, it's not the affluents that are in power today, it's the Ukrainian farmer, it's the Ukrainian peasant. And I'm surprised that you have to explain completely simple things that you need to trade, not in land, but in products that are grown on Ukrainian soil.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u109	My colleagues, I've had my share. Of course, we are not closing the morning session, but we are just taking a break after the last talk, and we can also discuss our view of the earth’s market in the clock. The final speech and the break, the break to throw off emotions and steam. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u110	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, on board is 66, the devil's number. This means that the farmer, the laborer, will definitely win this duel. With regard to the other bills, I advise this national MP who is speaking, first, to work on the committee and to know that all these bills have long passed on the agrarian committee, most of the members of the agrarian committee have voted and prepared. But unfortunately, this is what happens in this Supreme Council Hall that no one has any other legislative initiative besides the President. These are parliamentary laws, by number they will be named from the rostrum and will show that they are written as plagiarism! And you need to repent of that!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u111	Colleagues, please take a break. I'm asking you to meet me in the session room in exactly 30 minutes to continue our morning session. Thank you for your attention. I'm inviting everyone to the show again. Once again, I sincerely desire the wisdom of Viacheslav Maximovich Cnerovola, the wisdom of such and the compromise of soundness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, we start our work after a break. And so I very much ask all the deputies responsible to return to the session room. Please, the break is over at noon, and I ask you to return to the session hall, because we are continuing our morning session, and there are a number of issues on the agenda that we need to consider today. Dear colleagues, I ask our secretariat and the Supreme Council's apparatus to make an announcement starting after the recess, and we ask to return to the session room. I would like to ask you first of all to return to the session room to the National Deputy Levchenk. God, I'm sorry, please! I can see you now. I look at your place of work, and you don't see everything behind the trees. I'm sorry, there's a national MP Lewchenko in the hall. He's here, but he's hiding behind the columns a little bit pretty. We're moving on to the discussion, the honourable colleagues, the two decrees that are the author of which is the national MP Lewchenko, who is always present in the hall, but he was not in his place right now, so I didn't notice. And we are moving on to the draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 7 December 2017 on the adoption as a whole of a bill amending Chapter II of the Final Positions Act of Ukraine on the amendment to the Customs Code of Ukraine and the Law on the Development of Aircraft Building Industry on the granting of a transitional period by Ukrainian airlines to switch from foreign-produced aircraft to domestic-produced aircraft. The author of this decree number 7280-P, this project, National Deputy Yuri Lewchenko. And I invite him to the rostrum for a report. Please, Mr. Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u113	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Although this is a matter for the whole country, because this is a question that concerns our strategic aviation industry, one of the few industries that we have yet to compete with in world realities, but I would like to take this issue into consideration now also as a Kiev major because Antonov factory is right across the road from the border of my 223 district. And I know how in this factory the last few months people have been released, sent away on unpaid vacations, transferred halfway through workdays and so on. But the Supreme Council of Ukraine is voting for what? To continue to transport Western aircraft to Ukraine for a year, the expansion of which is the equivalent of Antonov's factory. So people from this rostrum are standing, many of these different factions are kind of opposing, talking about "buy Ukrainian," "buy Ukrainian." Yeah? They tell us how to support a domestic producer. And then what do they do? Crime laws that destroy the Ukrainian industry are out and voted for. That's it. And for what? Because in order for Mr. Cologne oligarch to be able to afford his MAU, the International Airlines of Ukraine, the so-called Ukrainian air carrier, in no way is Ukrainian, which is terrible, which gives huge tickets, the cost of tickets is more expensive than the Western carriers so that Cologne can buy more and more planes. So I would still like to be politically responsible for the words. I would like to read out which factions voted in favour of this anti-Ukrainian and anti-Ukrainian law in spite of discussions about the support of a domestic producer. BPP: 78 for People's Front: 63 for Opposition Block: 28 for Rebirth: 24 for Oleg Lazko, Oleg Laška Party: 13 for. Yeah? This is about political responsibility, when they talk here, from the rostrum. Please give me 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u114	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u115	When they're talking here, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u116	Could you give me a minute, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u117	They're talking here, from the rostrum, about how to support the Ukrainian producer Buy Ukrainian, pay the Ukrainians. And then they go out and vote for bills that destroy Ukrainian industries that are also capable of anything else. Therefore, respectable voters, respected Ukrainians! Figure out how the oligarchic majority is constantly teasing you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, allow me to inform you that, according to the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andria Paruba held a meeting on December 19th with the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which discussed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of December 7 on the adoption as a whole of a bill amending Chapter I of the Law on the Final Position of Ukraine on the amendment of the Customs Code of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on the Development of Aircraft Industry. This is a decree, as we know, of the People's Deputy Levchenk. And after discussion by the profile committee, it was decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine how to vote on the adoption or rejection of this draft decision. We're going to talk to you about the decision, and I'm asking you to sign up for the factions: who for, who for, who for, against, regarding this decision. Please, Maxim Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, I have listened carefully to the reporter, and I can quote my colleague Mikola Trochymovich Fedoruk, who has repeatedly said that there is truth, is a lie, and most of all it is half-truth. So I'm going to tell this professional populist what the truth is. He didn't even read that bill that we passed, we accepted that it should be introduced in three years, not in a year, but in three years, that's the first. Secondly, here's thesis on the protection of a domestic producer and that some opposition factions use it, slogans, and then vote in favour of such necessary laws, I can tell you that the MAU is a domestic carrier, another in Ukraine not yet. So we need to create all the conditions for us to go in here and the meadows, and we need to rebuild the national new carriers. The more they are, the better the competition, the cheaper the tickets will be. Now, thirdly, I can say that since my performance, I've been showing Antonov a letter that said that getting on a series of airplanes would be able to do as much as they can in three years. Because after the former criminal authority created the Antonov interstate enterprise, then the aggressor country Russia took all the certificates and all the documentation to itself. And it takes them three years to recover this documentation. It was in Anton's letter to the profile committee that said, and it's written clearly in white that it takes three years to run the paperwork, and then they can fix the transport. aircraft production. And that's what's important. I'm talking to all the passengers. This law, which we voted for, allowed us not to raise the price of tickets by at least 20 percent. Because it would have introduced VAT on lysing, and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u120	One minute, please add time.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u121	And then all the planes that they take to lysing to make inter-regional flights would go up by 20 percent. That's about 4-6 million dollars. Whose shoulders did this lie on? That would be on the shoulders of our passengers. So this bill protects their rights and protects their pockets. And your anti-State bills are just what? You're lobbying the closure of regional transports, and now we're seeing our airports relaunch: the airport in Chernivice, which has received state support, and now the runway is being repaired, and there are flights to Kiev, charter flights abroad; the airport in Mikolayev, which has received a certificate since December 15, and many more. So do not interfere with our country’s development. And you don't have to feed people with political dirt and garbage.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u122	Thank you very much for your position. Please, Igor Šurma will perform from the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u123	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, the Opposition Block from the first day of this composition of the Supreme Council has been in opposition, not to the state, but to Ukraine, but to power. To power, which today, without looking at such rhetoric, is very popular, that we are all for Ukraine, making very many fundamental systemic mistakes that benefit neither the state nor the citizens of Ukraine. One of the negative attributes of today’s political stability situation is the Supreme Council. You know, I don't have much in common politically and ideologically with many people in this Supreme Council. But I treat with respect and respect, perhaps not so much to them, but to those people who have been chosen and delegated to them here, from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, to defend their rights. And they do it the way they do it, and they reflect the thoughts and actions of the people who chose them. Against what am I being firm? I, like you, as the author of this decree, am entitled to my point of view. Why do people today who are part of factions allow themselves to talk about professional populists? But good men, do not throw stones into someone's city, for it will come to you. Have you not learned that by violating the Rules of Procedure of the Opposition Block, the Rules are working against you? Step away from personal images. You voted, and the Opposition Block voted with you. And we stand up for that position, we have the right. A person has the right to stand up for his hostility. You're talking about peace on the outside, and you're trying to sow war on the political front. You don't have to do this. If we are building Ukraine, go over your ambitions and tempt your tongues with regard to personal images. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u124	Thank you. I also want to join in with such peace statements that we all need to be more correct with each other, and this will add a constructive approach to the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now I am very pleased to give the floor to the distinguished Sergey Kiral of Self-Help. Are you gonna be out of town or out of the rostrum? Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, well, there's always good slogans for us, unfortunately, not very good, and sometimes corruption bills, you know? Under the slogans of renovating aircraft, supporting the space sector, we are actually bringing out millions, hundreds of millions, billions of dollars from the State Budget to enterprises that have not yet been reformed, where there is still no quality leadership, with the knowledge of English, where there is still no long-term strategy. Although as a member of the Industrial Policy Committee, as a deputy chairman of the committee, I have been asking for this for the last three years. And when representatives come to the meetings, the managers of these enterprises, they know that, they hear that, but obviously there's nothing to talk about. And there's not much to do. And in terms of passengers and Ukrainians, you know, you just have to make a decision that's already been made there.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u126	Give me a minute. I'm asking everyone out of factions two minutes to give equal time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u127	Ukraine has signed a long-painted agreement on what is called a common aviation space. Let's open up the Ukrainian sky, and then Ukrainian airports and Ukrainian airlines, because of competition, will become more powerful, stronger, and their services will become necessary for passengers, not for social networks. And after Anton's, let's answer those corruption scandals that were recently written in the media about the fact that the head of the company was opening up a bunch of offshore companies, where all the profits that Antonov is giving, not to the enterprise, not to the state budget. Let's get an answer to these questions, and then we'll think about how to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u128	Thank you for your position. Now Maxim the Chicken. And after that, Mr. Stasuk demands a word. Sorry, Korchik. After that, Mr. Korchik demands a word. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, well, I'm very sorry to actually hear these voices from the left of the Hall from colleagues in the Self-Help faction. Why? Because no vote in favour of supporting the domestic aviation sector is given by the Self-Help faction, no vote in favour of the Self-Help faction is given to support the domestic missile-space sector. Look what's going on. Last year we passed a very important, revolutionary, powerful bill. We gave the Ukrainians a chance and an opportunity to be proud of our Antonov planes. Yes, it is true, but someone is trying to make a foot, someone is constantly beating us in the back. Now that's a decision that doesn't allow the industry to develop. Moreover, not only does this decision inhibit the development of the sector, it actually blocks the country’s domestic air space. You can't do this. You can't do this. What's more, I'm talking to you right now: Tomorrow, there will be a bill in this room to support the domestic missile industry, to support the South Bank, the South Seas, the South Seas, will be asked tomorrow. If you don't, you won't have to do any more in Dniper. Either you vote yes and you support or you don't even come to Dnipro. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u130	Please, National Deputy Korchik. Out of place, out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, you know, when I hear about these decisions, I'm very sorry. Because, in fact, these regulations inhibit both the development of sectors and the direct rights of those passengers who may already be performing. Every question we have is trying to resolve. But there are technical issues that cannot be applied to politics. This question is completely technical. We're doing it now, helping both our natives and our airlines, and our domestic airlines, find this kind of consensus when they can work together. As far as Antonov is concerned. Personally, the People's Front faction supports domestic aviation. And we're doing everything we can to do that, but when we hear Antonov himself say that we need three more years to not only fix the production of airplanes, but also directly have all the licenses, we're giving them concessions, and we're giving our passengers the right without raising tariffs, and on the average it's 20 percent to transport them to regional airports in Ukraine that can't take large-scale airplanes like Boeing and Airbus. They're airports like the same ones mentioned by the Blacks and the Mikolai and the Franks, and so on. So what are we talking about? We're trying to help reconcile this issue right now, and you're trying to say that, sorry, everything's gone. So please answer people specifically what you do. I say again that this law is absolutely necessary. And we're good that we voted it out, three years to develop "AN," and we're going to have our worthy planes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleague, I'm just afraid we're going from talking about plane building to talking about each other. So let's put a dot here now. If you notice, after the vote, I'll give you the motivation for conducting the session, and you'll make all the comments I need. Okay. Now, please, the summary minute for the author of this ruling, we vote, and then we exchange lines about what's going on in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u133	First of all, what's written in the laws, who reads them. So you read, actually, what you're giving, and how you're pushing it all around without any other reading. It's written in the law. There's a law hanging on the Supreme Council's website. The law says until the 21st, and the comparative table says the 23rd. What you are voting for in general without proper discussion is a violation of the rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now essentially pretentious. Again, they're talking about supporting the aviation industry. How are you going to support the aviation sector if you're actually allowing us to continue to import imported aircraft that could be manufactured by the Ukrainian factory Antonova? How, what can we do here, what kind of support is there? When you say that Antonov is unable to supply demand right now, the question to your managers that you've assigned is, why are you now releasing people? If Antonov can't do it, if he can't do it, why can't the workers get fired, why is the workday cut short, why do people go on free vacations?Oh, my God! How is this logic bound? Don't lie!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u134	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! This is what we are now doing in exchange for kindness, and the place for it is in the buffet, not in the session room. That's why we're now going to vote on the draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 7 December 2017 on the adoption, as a whole, of a bill amending the chapter of the Second Final Provisions Act of Ukraine amending the Customs Code of Ukraine and the Law on the Development of Aircraft Construction Industry on granting the transitional period to Ukrainian airlines to switch from foreign aircraft to domestic aircraft. Please vote. Then there's the word for motive. Please. [[13:13:29]] For 20 20 votes in favour of your decision, she's refusing. And now, please, I'm giving Maxim Burbaku a minute. Then Igor Shurmi for the exchange of motive lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! Now I want to go to all the Ukrainians and tell the professional liars in this Council, the professional populists, what is the common aviation space and our tasks that Ukraine has done three years ago. While still in office in the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk, the minister of infrastructure, he personally signed all the documents for Ukraine to accept and implement its part of the Common Aviation Area Agreement. We did it, we even ratified it in Parliament. And before the colleague who was here criticizing and saying that the SAP is not made of Ukraine, I want to remind you that the European Union has not signed this agreement because there is an unresolved issue between Spain and Britain about Gibraltar. That's the position. Once again, stop feeding people political garbage. This is finally a political responsibility, because you lied to the whole country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u136	Yeah, no replicas, we've got 30 seconds, Igor Shurma. And let's move on to the next decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u137	Igor Šurma, one minute. I have to tell you, we're very pleased that the position on the plane building of the Opposition Block has also supported the People's Front. I think that where the interests of Ukraine are concerned, we all unite there. And now I want to quote what my colleague said about the truth, half-truth and lie in this room. Well, the truth is, it's Wednesday. The truth is that there is no coalition in the hall today. And the truth is, we're trying to show people our work today, and we can't go into ratifications. This is also true. But the lie is how we are all of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u138	Colleagues, I mean. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to say that the truth is that there are now responsible national deputies in this room from different factions who are responsible for going to work. And I call on all the deputies in charge who are now in the towers to return to the session room. Please, Your Honor, we're all returning to the session room, all responsible deputies. And we're going to consider the draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of December 07th, 17th, on adoption as a whole, as a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to ensure a balanced budget revenue in 2018. The author of this decree is national deputy Yuri Lewchenko, who insists on giving him one minute, and he will speak for three minutes about his decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u139	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This is my final ruling on response to the regular, anti-regulatory vacchanalia on Thursday, on the budget Thursday, when many of the bills were adopted absolutely illegally, in violation of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In particular, this bill, the bill, started literally with a few pages, the correct rules for increasing excise duty on tobacco, although it was delayed for several years. But three minutes before the draft is considered, the entire National Deputies have a 200-page table, also fresh, from under Xerox, also hot, right up to a couple of them, which has a mass of other completely amended amendments that are not related to the original content of the bill. Some adjustments are more or less normal. There, for example, they tried to solve the tax rulings, and now, by the way, they're speculating here, the official oligarchate is speculating, using small and medium-sized businesses. And the small and medium-sized business says, "Well, you can't stop it. That's the law." And people don't see the fullness of what it says. Instead of solving normal issues over the course of a year, there was time for six months, they pushed in, normal things pushed through along with terrible adjustments, a huge project, five minutes before the vote. And what do we see there? There we see an increase in the oligarchi revenue for the gas oligarhat, where we see preferences for income tax for many different oligarchic businesses, there we see a completely flimsy norm about so-called three parcels, which many people are already talking about, especially our diaspora and our employees are talking about. And all of this was adopted without any discussion, not publicly, using a silence thread, using a table that was given fresh, from under Xerox, illegally in three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u140	One minute, I said, three minutes, just one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u141	Using the table, which was given illegally, not in 10 days, as required by the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Council Rules, but in 3 minutes after xerox was given, they quickly voted. And then they talk about how good it is for the state. So any rational person understands that good things for society are so, in the dark, illegally not accepted. Whatever you're talking about here from the rostrum, how you seem to improve your life. One's already improved his life, one's heard of it-- found himself in Rostov. Make sure you don't have to do the same thing again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, please let me inform you that according to the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council, Andria Paruba, on December 19th, there was the same meeting of the Professional Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which discussed the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of December 7, 2017 on the adoption as a whole of the Act, the Bill on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine on the Balance of Budgets in 2018 (by Yuri Levchenka). After a heated debate on the committee, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be determined by voting on the adoption or rejection of the draft decision in the session hall. And so now, before you and I decide on this decision, we're going to have a discussion. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions to discuss this decision. Thank you. Please welcome Maxime the Chicken. Please, Your Honor, go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, what did we vote for last plenary week when voting for amendments to the Tax Code? We voted in favour of the development of the country, we voted with you in favour of correcting that very serious mistake, we unlocked with you the registration of tax receipts, which is what the real sector of the economy of Ukraine expected of us. We admit mistakes, and we correct them, and that is a sign of strength. That's the first one. We voted with you for a larger industrial modernization in our country. We have provided simply a revolutionary benefit to all subjects of the enterprise: upgrade our core assets, bring the tax to the added cost of two years of new equipment, new machines. Well, that's enough living in the past century! You and I have voted for very powerful things, in a way that has enabled development, including the Ukrainian village. Yeah, tomorrow we're going to correct that 180-correction amendment that was voted on, and it's going to relieve the total tension in all Ukrainian peasants. But most of all, you and I have made a commitment to vote in this session hall a year later on the Tax Act on the resulting capital -- and to replace the corrupt law with a tax on income by law. And that will be progress for Ukraine. Dear colleagues, not a step back, people are waiting for the state to develop, people are looking for stability, business is looking forward to developing, we're giving the opportunity to develop a domestic economy. And this decision, which is dated with the only motive, "the worse the country is, the better for their ratings.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u144	Now, please, the word is given to Igor Shurma from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u145	Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block. You know, maybe I'm wrong, I asked my colleagues, they give me an answer, maybe it's wrong, ask everyone in the session room, and today is Wednesday or Friday, say it? There are always about 100 people on Friday, look at the hall, what's going on? Theatre nonsense. Here they keep trying to say, you know, this kind of rhetoric, the more we vote, the more we shout that we love Ukraine, the more benefit for people, it would be good if it did. And I got this impression that the more people's deputies get paid, the less they go to the hall. Today, please look at the session room, you can talk about who's on the job, who doesn't, but there's a so-called political responsibility, and when you had to vote for this bill, which applies to the tax code, "The opposition block voted because, I say, these are the rules of the game. We're making rules for the government. Whether he does it or not, it's question number two. And today in the workplace, you know, if you put together a unified bill, we don't get more than 120 votes. Is that normal? Why do I turn to the coalition? Because it is a political responsibility for the functioning of the Supreme Council of the Coalition. She served on committees in her own time, and there were factions that were part of the coalition, and today one of the factions is speaking and saying. "I'm the deputy head of the committee." Is it a moral right to say that if you're out of the coalition? None. So this theater of absurdity has to be stopped. Why us? I don't want to fool people, I don't want us to fool ourselves: there are no votes in the hall for ratification. The rulings are voted on because they will not vote in any case. Let us have the power of will and acknowledge that this Supreme Council is exhausting itself. Let us not disappoint people in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear Mr. Igoru, I can support the position that MPs should all be at their place of work. But at the same time, as I am now the person who is conducting the meeting, I would like to point out that we are going absolutely according to the Rules. Because it is our duty to consider decisions with you, it is the responsibility of the Supreme Council. And so I would like to make it clear that we're doing a very important job right now, all of us here looking at the decisions that then give us the opportunity to sign these bills to the Head of the Supreme Council. We still have three speeches to discuss, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u148	Yvchenko, Kiral and..
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u149	I'll give you my word. And let's stop this practice of criticizing the Supreme Council of Ukraine because the Supreme Council of Ukraine is all factions and all MPs who have made fundamental changes in the Ukrainian state and will still change. And to lead a state into Europe, to make a powerful, powerful Ukrainian state, and it's a hub of stability. So let us support the Supreme Council and the decisions that we are considering are very important, and they unlock the adoption of the budget, the budget code, and the tax code. So let's not do self-destruct, but work systematically and effectively. Please, Yvchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u150	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you once again that it was the changes to the Tax Code that brought about the compensation of zero rates for certain types of crops. In fact, we realize that it was in the interest of two large oligarchic groups. Colleagues, you can't reform at the expense of someone. In our context, it's at the expense of the farmer. There was no consultation with the producers. There was no consultation with associations, with an agrarian committee, and thus, by violating the Rules, this rule was extended. Once again, the agrarians are going out for a warning protest tomorrow. There'll be about 5,000 of them here tomorrow. We have to give them a word and say we're going to fix the situation, we're going to go back into the dialogue today with the tax committee, along with the agrarian committee, and let's make compromise decisions instead of making our own, let's say, innovations without taking into account the position of that sector that today forms 32 percent of gross foreign exchange revenue in the country, 32. No one counted with associations, an agrarian forum, or even an agrarian committee. Colleagues, I suggest, for now, that there are only 50 people in the room, but in fact we need: (a) to vote; (b) to adopt a tax code that will benefit us tomorrow, including the agrarian sector, so that the agrarians can see it. All of us go out and tell each other. "We did it, we did it, we did it." And let's keep making decisions in the dialogue. That's right. And today let's support the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u151	Thank you. There are colleagues who wish to speak, but we cannot give our word to all. Kiral, I understand, now. I'll give you my word. Solovy, Vadatursky, Lušnjak is also required. Okay, but it's an exclusive and comprehensive list. Yeah, then two minutes, Kiral. Guys, give me a minute. Okay? In a minute. Please, Kiral.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u152	In the writing of George Orwell, 1984, what's going on right now is called "ambiguity" or "ambiguity," which is when crimes are covered up by such "mild intentions." And we have this tradition; under the Christmas tree, we make all the more or less opaque criminal decisions. And, Mr. Head, if we were to follow the Rules in the Supreme Council, if we were to organize quality discussions of decisions, if we could listen to the opinions of different parties, of different parliamentary factions, I think our laws, laws would be much better and serve people. On a particular issue, unfortunately, no one in business asked: No agrarians, no small and medium ones. When it comes to blocking overheads, blocking tax breaks. And they are. Are they even needed today? This was to be done in September or August, when, in fact, the right thing to do about automatic registration of overheads, unfortunately, led to significant problems in business when business had to justify, collect a bunch of help, convince taxes that it really doesn't abuse, it produced the same product that it had to produce, just from another raw material. Today the problem is solved. What is the purpose of this blockage? Not so that now, over the next two months, fake documents will be thrown in mass and fictitious VAT returned on fictitious documents? I'd like to ask those colleagues who have supported such standards to follow closely the same way that they did when the overhead registers themselves and went directly to the NAB to other law enforcement authorities to prevent such cases. We'll watch it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u153	Thank you. I would like to point out that I have adhered to the Rules, that every bill goes through a full discussion and everyone has the opportunity to make a statement. "Ambiguity" for Orwell is when people say one thing, they think another and they do the third. And just be whole: say what you think, and there will be no "difficulty." That's one answer to your warnings, colleagues. I would like to point out that after every bill we have a full discussion, there is no limit to the speech. And even now that we're discussing decisions, most of those who want to speak have the opportunity to do so. Now I'm giving you a minute, first of all, Solovay, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u154	Yuri Solovay, 79th constituency, Gutzulščina and Poksi. Dear colleagues, we must clearly reject the decision, even though the changes noted to tax legislation allowed Ukrainian manufacturers to import modern equipment and defuse the value added tax. But in addition to that, I would like to draw attention to another issue -- economics and investment. Because if we change the Tax Code every year before the new year, it is clear that there is no need to talk about the large-scale involvement of investments. I think it's time in the Ukrainian Parliament today, as we talked about one day of land reform, it's time to talk about one day of large-scale tax reform, to consider an extremely important bill on taxes on the capital output to replace the income tax. Once and for all for at least five years, adopt tax rules that are understandable.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u155	Thirty seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u156	To adopt tax rules that are clear and transparent for everyone and that are clear for each enterprise, so that the investor investing in Ukraine realizes that in the next five years, the tax rules in this country will not change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u157	Thank you. Please, Maxim Lushniak, one minute too. Mikola, I'm sorry. Excuse me, Mr. Mikola. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u158	Dear Mr. Head, fellow national MPs, dear Ukrainian people! Yes, today the tax committee corrected the error of budget nights and amended the Tax Code to zero VAT, with the extension of crops such as soybeans and rapes. But there's still one question that's very global: why a country that is in a state of economic crisis today in a state of war has to pay agricultural subsidies of more than 150 million in one hand, why we can't limit it. And so I'm asking the head of the budget committee tomorrow to make changes to the budget code, which will apply to all agricultural programs to have a 100 million limit, I think that's a large figure, we agreed on a 150 compromise. And this has to be done by the Ukrainian Parliament in this session. And then we can look into the eyes of the agrarians and say that we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u159	30 seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u160	That we are a Parliament that is wrong, but corrects its mistakes. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u161	Thank you. And I want to remind you, as I warned you on Monday, tomorrow we will have 131 articles of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we will be able to make a statement on the budget for security, and we will be able to make a clarification under the Tax Code, which, as far as I know, is already in place, or has to take a decision by the committee today. And the closing statement on this decision is Vadaturski. From the spot, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, today we are talking about trust, about respect for the Supreme Council of Ukraine from society. How can we talk about respect if we spend three minutes in discussions to take nearly 10 billion dollars away from agriculture and hand in one or two pairs of hands? How can this be explained to agrarians who are struggling to earn money and try to survive in such difficult conditions? We need to put an end to this practice, and we need to learn to correct our own mistakes. And so let's do it, we agree to support the processor, but not in this way -- not to take money from each other, but to give money to others. You can't do that, it's a non-state position, it's a non-state policy. And we need to correct such mistakes. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u163	Thank you. And the final word of the author of the decree, Yuri Lewchenk. In a minute, we'll move on to the vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall. And turn on Yuri Lewchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u164	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This is during the discussions of all these stopping decrees of my own, which I have tried to draw attention to, in particular, to the egregious perpetuation of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to those negative moments which I have tried to draw attention to, for example, to all those who speak out of the oligarchic majority, none of those who speak out of the oligarchic majority have even discussed the facts of the violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Anything they didn't talk about: about bad people, about how they seem to build a country, more or less, but none of them said a word on specific facts that violate specific articles of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because it's the law. So I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens. People good, I hope you understand that normal things, the normal things that are needed for society, are not being taken lightly with the violation of the Code of Conduct of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u165	So the discussion is over. We're moving on to making a decision. And I am voting on the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 07.12.2017 on the adoption as a whole of a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the sustainability of budgetary revenues in 2018 (6776-D-P). Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Be my guest, colleagues. [[13:39:01]] For-33 The decision is not made. Colleagues, this was the final decision of those who unlock the budgetary process. And now, colleagues, I want to go to the hall. We've had a good tradition for weeks at a time, so that the bills that are important, which have a lot of rights, we've been looking at Wednesdays, and we've been voting on Thursdays. We are currently looking at the draft Law on Auditing Financial Reporting and Auditing. This bill has almost 300 rights. And I, my colleagues, have an offer that we can go through most of the rights, finish the day, and go to the polls on Thursday. This bill, as far as I know, is supported by all factions. The only question is that we adhere to the Rules, and we follow them, as opposed to some accusations, that we have been able to pass these amendments today. And tomorrow is less time to consider this law. Is there an agreement in the hall? Yes. So let's move on to the next question of the agenda. Draft Law on Auditing Financial Reporting and Auditing Activities (6016-d). And I invite you to report to the head of the Tax and Customs Committee of South Carolina's Nina Petrovna. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u166	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Today, a bill (register number 6016-d) on auditing financial reporting and audit activities is proposed for consideration before the second reading. The bill has been drafted with the aim of bringing national legislation in the field of auditing into line with European Union legislation, in particular the provisions of Directive 43 and Regulation 537 2014. The bill was adopted on the first reading of November 16, 2017. In preparation for the second reading, 238 amendments were made. More than half, namely: 133 revisions are counted as editorial. The amendments taken into account do not essentially change the concept of the bill or even improve it a little bit and make it more liberal. At the same time, the standards remain in line with EU standards that are intended to be implemented in national legislation. Rejected offers, only 105. These are mainly those that cannot be accounted for because they change the concept of the bill or disagree with the conceptual principles of the EU directive. The suggestions taken into account are those that were discussed most in the hall with us on our first reading. The committee’s working group, together with experts, with professional representatives, considered them very carefully and counted the maximum. In addition, I would like to point out that the committee has received letters of support for the bill, which has been drafted by the wide audience and the Auditor's Chamber of Ukraine. In addition, we have received the support of the bill, as expressed by the EU Ambassador to Ukraine. In addition, a conference in Kharkiv was already under way, and it was the audit community that gave its support to the bill. I would like to point out that it was then that my colleagues and my committee colleagues were very sensitive to all the suggestions made by the audience from Kharkiv. We worked and invited all the audiences whose amendments were not included in the first welcome to the committee discussion. As a result, we now have 133 revisions supported. I mean, now I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u167	Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u168	We need to focus now on those amendments that were most noticeable last time. I want you to notice that we supported them and they're already on the right. in the right column of the table, which is given to the second reading. "In particular, the audience's anticipated ability not only to rent real estate but also to separate it. It is specified that audiences will have the right to receive remuneration from educational, teaching, and scientific activities. It's a 17. It is possible for audit entities to perform evaluation services if they do not directly influence the results of their financial performance. — Law 31. Complemented with standards that an audit firm is not subject to disciplinary, administrative, civil and criminal liability for the submission of information to the National Securities and Stock Markets Commission on a professional participant in a stock market or issuer whose securities are admitted to stock exchanges, or on securities that have been publicly offered, even if such acts have been detrimental to legal or physical persons (No. 35). The proposal for individual responsibility of each member of the board of the public oversight body for which violations have occurred cannot be delegated, the first edition proposed a collective responsibility, and in this regard, you had a large number of comments. There is also some refinement of the date of payment of the fees for the financing of the Social Supervisory Authority and the Auditorium. It is noted that they are paid not later than the last day of the month following the month in which the audit report was compiled, not after the signature of such an audit report. It is clearly stated that the decisions of the Social Supervisory Authority can be challenged in court, the procedure for forming a Social Supervisory Authority has been clarified, and this was the most important observation that applied to the participation of the public in the formation of the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u169	One more minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u170	The procedure for forming an auditor's appraisal commission, regulation 83, which also is, has been clarified, was crucial in the discussion. The procedure for holding such a first assembly was clarified — the 220, which was also one of the key. Incremented from 10 working days to 30 calendar days, the deadlines for making changes to the register are 91, 92, 93. It has been clarified that it is considered a major violation for the purposes of applying the responsibility of the subject of audit activity, Law 94. Also reduced from 100 percent to 30 percent of the fines that can be applied to the subject of the audit activity is what you have also stressed last time. And it is proposed to extend from 1 May to 1 October 2018 the deadline for the introduction of this law, regulation 209, which is caused by the fact that we have not yet been able to adopt this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u171	Thank you. I think we're moving on to the amendments, colleagues. And if there are any amendments to the matter of desire and necessity, and the need for the head of the identity committee to be clarified, you will always be able to do so. Unfortunately, several right-wing authors are not in the session room right now, and I'm only going to go after the amendments that the authors are in the session room. If anyone wants to speak, please raise your hand if I don't name someone. Please change number 14, Debenkov. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Amendment number 16, Dovbenko. Don't insist. Amendment number 18, Kirsch. Don't insist. Amendment number 27, Debenkov. Debts don't insist. 29, Debenkov, 29. Don't insist. 30, Martovicki. Don't insist. Let's go after the amendments now, a lot of the committee counted as correctly noted by the lady.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u172	We haven't reached her yet, now. And it's 52. Ostrikov will also perform by Semenach. Please turn on the microphone, Mr. Semenichi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u173	Semenha Romane faction of Self-Help. Dear colleagues, Madam Rapporteur, the draft law provides for the possibility for the public oversight body to review and review the decisions of the Ukrainian Audit Chamber, which it has adopted within the limits of delegated powers. This, in our view, is partly equivalent to the importance and institutional autonomy of our own auditorium, and it can actually turn a self - control entity into a subordinated social oversight body and establish a fundamental dependence on it. In accordance with article 46 of this Law, the principles of professional self - government are established. Therefore, in order to remove this unfettered influence of the Social Supervisory Authority on the activities of the Board of Auditors of Ukraine and to restore the principles of professional self-government of auditors, it is proposed to exclude the possibility of involving a public oversight body in a decision already taken by the Board of Auditors. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u174	Please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u175	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention once again that it is around the Auditorium of Ukraine that is the biggest issue at the moment about making their decisions. If you knew what state the Ukrainian Auditorium was in, you'd be terrified. The redesigned new composition cannot focus on the work and there is an exclusive demonstration of the drag of the rights of one committee, one person to another. I mean, in general, it seems to me that the sooner we adopt the law, the sooner we'll save the entire professional community from a collapse that might happen if the House of Auditors continues to operate. That's the first one. Secondly, the amendment is not in line with the conceptual principles of EU directives, in particular Article 32 of the EU Directive. And yet, in the process of working on this bill, we've given quite a lot of authority to the auditorium. I think if she's going to deal with them, it's going to be a turning point in their work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, we are determined by amendment 52, by the national deputies of Ostrikov and Semimenach, who have been rejected by the committee. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:51:11]] For-31 31 votes. No correction supported. Next, 54th, Dudenkov. Don't insist. 56th, Dudenkov. Don't insist. Lechenko, 65th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u177	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Unfortunately, despite the assurances that EU directives and Western European standards are being implemented, this is not the case. In fact, Directives 21456 and 20643 clearly state that, I quote, "The competent authority should be directed by non-executive persons who have knowledge in the areas of mandatory audit." And then the phrase is, "These people are chosen according to an independent and transparent suspension procedure." Regrettably, in the current bill, the formation of a council of supervisors is thus left behind even after the amendments, so it is stipulated that there is, in fact, a fundamental influence, and a decisive influence, of executive power rather than essentially independent and non-practicing persons. My amendment is specifically designed to determine that the council has a majority of non-executive persons rather than executives, so please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u178	Please give the committee's head a word of comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u179	Dear colleague, the point is that your amendment is not exactly in line with the directive, as required by the EU Directive. And when I presented this bill, I was just saying that after the financial crisis, including the guilt of both the auditors and the audit reports, and the confirmation of the financial capacity of the bankrupt enterprises, it was decided by the European Commission itself to work out the requirements of the directive, which is the only one for all the countries of the European Union. And that's where the influence of the professions and the participation in the control of the activity is distributed. Therefore, it is the representation of seven members on the board of oversight that is also balanced in the presentation of the interests of the profession. Three persons will be representatives of the profession, enough to have a qualitative impact on the control of the activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine for Amendment 65 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. The committee didn't support her. [[13:54:09]] For the 18th. No correction supported. 69th, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 72nd, Ostrikova, Semimenah. Please, Semensi microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u181	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear Nina Petrovna, I absolutely agree with you that this law is a colossal step forward, and this bill needs to be passed. But I also stress that one of the tasks of this bill is to create the institutional independence of the auditorium. And in this case, it's still an opportunity to review its decision by the board of supervisors. Consider, then, if a decision is based on due diligence and that decision is overturned. Well, who's going to determine that kind of relevance, then cancel. It is not obvious that this can have a biased and unmotivated effect on making a decision. So what I'm proposing to do is remove from the draft law the stated position when the auditorium is not actually subordinated to the Board of Supervisors because it is possible to review its decisions. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u182	We're headed for 72 people's deputies of Semimenach and Ostrikov. The committee didn't support her. [[13:55:37]] For-22. Not supported. I've announced 69 amendments to Deputy Dovbenko. I guess she was a bad advertiser. Please, microphone to People's Deputy Dovbenko, 69 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u183	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. My amendment refers to a warehouse for oversight. And so I propose that, in the second sentence of part one, part one, part one, part one, article 16 of the bill delete, that's what's going on with the members of the Supervisory Board. Please support my work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u184	We are appointed after the amendment of 69 People's Deputies Doubbenko. The committee turned her down. [[13:56:30.]] For-27 27 votes in favour of the amendment. It's deflecting. Next 97, Ostrich-Semenich. Are you insisting on 97? Okay. Debtskov, 102 revisions. Don't insist. Lechenko, 103. He insists. Levchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u185	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, first of all, with regard to the previous amendment to the formation of the board of supervisors, well, I quoted -- the appropriate directives are -- I quoted where it was clearly written, how it should be formed. I don't know how there can be differences. Well, that's it. Let people draw conclusions. With regard to this amendment. It is not appropriate to suggest restricting the access of small and medium-sized audit firms to social-interest checks, as set out in article 21 of the bill. The establishment of such rigid rules by law can destroy 99 audit entities. Ninety - nine percent of audit subjects will meet the requirements of the bill by about 30 audit firms, while the rest will be on the verge of survival without access to large businesses. I'm basically also going to monopolize the market when it's available. when only selected clients have access to serious clients, and those not selected will not have access. So I would also like to take this amendment into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u186	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u187	I would like to comment because the adoption of this Law is in the hands of most of the audiences who are actually carrying out mandatory audits of subjects of social interest. And now you're talking about the audience at all. In general, audiences in the vast majority do not audit public interest. And for small companies, we made all the exceptions to the first reading so that they could continue the work they were doing. This is the first time. Requirements for three audiences. Excuse me, what company can give a proper audit report if there's an auditor working there? So we're not saying that they're employees, they might be employees, but that's got to be a quality report that society can trust.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u188	Thank you for your clarification, colleagues. I'm asking you to make a determination regarding 103 amendments, Deputy Levchenka. The committee rejected it, and we had just heard the committee’s explanation. [[13:59:05]] For 20 Rejected amendment. I'm going to continue the meeting for 10 minutes literally. 112 revisions, Dudenkov. What? Ask for a break. Colleagues, at the request of the deputies in charge, who have served a good session today, after the amendment of Dudenkova, I announce a recess. Please, this is the amendment of 119 People's Deputies, please. Colleagues, we have a break under the Rules, but I have announced the amendment that we are considering today, the last one, of the People's Deputies of Dudenkova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u189	Thank you very much, Mrs. Irina. It's a 112, not a 119. 112 right. It refers to order, it refers to the order of payment of services to audit firms. The thing is, maybe with all the progress in the ideas of this bill, too hard to regulate the amounts of remuneration that are paid especially by enterprises that are of social interest, for the benefit of the firms, is, in my opinion, wrong. In particular, it is suggested that this right should exclude part three of article 26, which does not allow the sum of the remuneration to exceed 70 percent of the average price of market service provided by an audit firm or an auditor for three years to provide separate services to an enterprise that is of social interest. I find this standard discriminatory, so I suggest that it be excluded.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-20-m0.u190	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to determine the session room for amendment number 112, the national deputy of Dudenkov, whom he has just introduced. The committee against this amendment. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:01:13]] For the 17th. Thank you, Your Honor. The 17 votes were in favour of the amendment. It's not coming through. Colleagues, so we finished our consideration of this bill at Amendment 112. We begin tomorrow, on Thursday, our morning session to continue the consideration of this bill by amendment No. 113 of the People's Deputies of Dudenkova. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10:00 in the morning. We're opening our session. And I remind you that today we have work on committees and factions as well. Please, all of you, please go back to work on the committee. Thank you. We've already finished our work for today, our sessional day. Thank you.
