ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues, while MPs enter the hall, you will have the logic of today. I ask you to listen carefully. We have four ratifications, and I hope we can support them together. And this discussion is not going to take long. Also, the Law on Physical Culture and Sports, and I also hope that there will be a general unification of the hall around the bill. And then we're going to go into the draft Housing Services Act, the LHC. This bill has a lot of rights. And I think, by the time we get to today, we're going to be able to start a review of the rights, and tomorrow we're going to finish their consideration, and tomorrow we're going to go to the vote. And I'm really counting on us to be able to effectively ratify it, and in time to move on to a large, large Housing Services Act. I'm asking you to take up your jobs, and I'm asking you to sign up. It's too late. [[10:03:25]] There are 346 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague, Ukrainian national deputy Maxim Pavlovich Chicken. Let's say hello to Maxim. Welcome, my friend! [[Applause]] Happy birthday. According to the Rules at the beginning of today's session, we have 30 minutes to make speeches by national deputies, with proposals, statements, reports. And I'm asking all the national MPs who have proposals, statements, messages, to prepare for the recording. All right, everybody, get ready. Ready? Let's go. Please hold the recording. Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u2	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! I'd like to re-emphasize from this high rostrum the public's attention on the most important bill in the year that we're going to adopt, this is a draft state budget for next year. I have to stress once again, on behalf of our political power, the political party "The Opposition Block," that we consider this budget to be a police state budget and a completely antisocial budget. We've sent over 200 amendments to this budget, deputies from our faction, and we're going to insist that if these amendments aren't adopted, we're not going to support this robbery budget in any way. Why? There are a few moments. First of all, these are macroeconomic indicators. We think that the macroeconomic indicators that are set out in this budget, which is 7 percent of inflation and 3 percent of gross domestic product growth, are absolutely unrealistic and the figures that really need correction. First of all, in terms of inflation, we understand -- and I think that's what all citizens of Ukraine see -- that 7 percent of inflation is a completely unrealistic figure, and inflation is going to be much higher than that. And that's why we think that the additional revenue from this inflation should be planned by the government for social measures. The second question is GDP growth. 3 percent is also, unfortunately, according to these actions and the steps that the government of Ukraine is taking today are completely unrealistic figures. And I think today, and that's what all the experts are saying, the real growth of gross domestic product will not exceed 1.5 percent. The second question is to build the debt base of our nation. And today, contrary to the State’s Debt Budget Code, the state’s external debt exceeds nearly 90 percent of its gross domestic product, which is contrary to the Code of Budgets and is contrary to common sense. 78 billion budget deficits will be directed at almost exclusively police needs, at increasing the costs of various power organs, instead of actually dealing with medical matters, with education. And all this talk that comes from today's television screens for Ukrainian citizens about what we have about a reform of the medical field, that we have a very serious reform of the educational field, is absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u3	Ten seconds, please 10, because a lot of deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u4	Once again, if the government fails to focus on the social spheres instead of supporting the forces, we will by no means support this budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u5	Thank you. I'd like to introduce you to the words of the Shurma People's Deputy. He was given the word of two colleagues, so it took six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u6	Igor Šurma. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, I will now try to give you some facts and some insight into what is happening to the health system today and how it is today trying to implement the so-called reforms of the Ministry of Health. We have extra medical care. This is the service that guarantees the safety of citizens’ lives. Who does it in the Ministry? The head of the department is the accountant’s education. Accordingly, if an accountant deals with the health problem, we have the following unprofessional decisions made by officials, leading to the rapid loss of work of tens of thousands of health workers. What does all of this lead to? Listen, by order of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, which came into effect on November 1, 2017, the Ministry of Health decided to abolish the position of a medical examiner. She's just gone. And instead, a paramedic is appointed. Thus, there is no longer an urgent medical post, and from November 1st, workers should be reduced and released in accordance with article 40, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Labour Code. In line with the legislation, we need to draw up and approve a new state code, which, by the way, no one has made it and is not. Not later than two months later, personally alert the workers whose jobs are being cut short and report a reduction in the State Employment Service. All of this needs to be heard by those working on emergency medical teams today. At the same time as a notice of dismissal, the employer is obliged to offer another job at the same company, or paramedic. But according to the changes approved by the Ministry of Health, this is not possible because their qualifications differ significantly. In Ukraine today, there is no specialty in paramedics as well as training programs for such professionals. If the M.O.S. puts paramedics in place of feldshers by its decisions, there is a legitimate question. Who will teach them? And there are no such experts in Ukraine. A total of 19,000 doctors, medical professionals with medical education, are working in Ukraine for emergency care. What do they do with November 1st to become a paramedic, to qualify a paramedic who doesn't exist at all? The directive is generally contrary to common sense, its execution is impossible, and it leads to a reduction in health - care workers and a real increase in social tension. All of these, we see, are behind all this one thing, not to make qualitative changes that will benefit people, and the issue is to reduce health spending. This is not a reform when they say spending has become more than in 2014, but everyone likes to be attached to the currency. If we look at expenditure in the currency of 2014 and 2017, there are now reduced expenditure on health care three times, under which circumstances it is reasonably clear what the quality of health care will be. The introduction of teams that will include paramedics and drivers, or even a team from one employee, to perform both functions, will significantly reduce the cost of the budget. Once again, I'm talking about cost savings, not improving quality. We refer directly to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to intervene in the situation where today's health problems are dealt with by accountants, economists, people without higher education, no checkers, no job orders are accepted by the Ministry of Economics and Trade. If today the category of people who sit in this room and have political responsibility for what is being done in the Ministry of Health, which is a so-called coalition that is not here today and all those who are involved with them, I have questions for you, including Mr. Andrew, who is not currently in charge. Why don't you make a decision to cancel decisions, bills, financial guarantees for medical care and medical supplies? This is what is called a medical reform, and it has no relation to medical reform. Put this decision in the voting room, let the people either cancel the decision, or confirm it. And then we will talk about the personal responsibility of every MP who voted in favour of destroying our health system with the introduction of Bill 6327. And, in the end, Mr. Prime Minister, if this bill, which will be put into effect, you have neither the moral nor the legal right not to run for office in this Hall. Enter, you want, Ulysses Suprun, you want someone else, but let there be someone who will be responsible, including punishment, for the lack of medical care in the facilities, for the lack of medicine and for the deaths we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u7	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Vilkul, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u8	Dear people of Ukraine! I meet people all the time, work groups, and what do they say? That the result of your medical reform is that people are afraid to get sick, because without money, hospitals, and medicines, it's a straight line to that world. The result of your pension reform, and that's all a lot of people have already felt, is that people are angry with these tiny pension increases, even though they've been promised the "gold of the mountains" and many people haven't even received anything, and this year inflation is going to eat these added amounts. The result of educational reform. Those who have any opportunity to send their children abroad are afraid that their children will reach schools now some 20 miles [20 km] away and 50 miles [50 km] away because the authorities are shutting down schools. Over the last three years alone, more than a thousand schools have been closed down, and the system of support schools, which is introduced by the new Education Act that we have submitted to the Constitutional Court, is the further closure of schools. Today, 8 November, and I want to say that as a result of your municipal reform -- and your municipal reform is just a rise in tariffs, nothing more -- there's another fear of staying in a cold apartment. In dozens of cities and hundreds of villages, you did not start a heating season on time. And another million people who don't have money to pay on such high tariffs are afraid to get kicked out of their apartment for debts from the utility office, and that fear is getting worse. The tariffs will continue to grow, and the government is already negotiating with the IMF. With the heating season big problems, and the government has already admitted it, but they are trying to take the blame on the local authorities, silenced that they do not have adequate funding because of the people's debts and because the state does not provide the necessary funds to cover the difference in tariffs on time. If ten years ago the whole country was discussing an extraordinary event in Alcevsk, you are now turning the whole country into Alcevsk. One and a half years ago, I introduced Bills 2342 and 2347 to the Supreme Council, which set up a moratorium on tariff hikes and prohibit people from being evicted from housing for municipal debt. Such incidents are already taking place throughout the country, and the issue is becoming more and more acute and painful. By the beginning of October 2017, debt from utilities was already 27 billion dollars -- over $1 billion. Also, the budget now lacks $10 billion in subsidies. I'm going to remind you that from 2010 to 2010.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u9	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u10	From 2010 to 2014, there was no increase in tariffs at all. I was the vice-premier on municipal issues, and I remember well, and I have a good grip on that. And I guarantee that once we win the election, we're going to cut the gas and the heating charges immediately twice. A thousand and seven thousand dollars worth of Ukrainian gas are sold to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u11	Please welcome Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u12	Good afternoon. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, tomorrow Parliament will consider the draft budget for 2018, a key financial document that the country will live on. I want you to know the requirements and teams of the Radical Party for the Budget Act next year. The first, and the key, is raising social standards, raising incomes and raising wages. So we insist that the minimum wage from the New Year is not 3,000 700, as the government suggests, but at least 5,000 dollars a month. Raising wages is the only way to get Ukrainians out of poverty, not grant them subsidies, not give them taxes before elections, but give people a normal job and a normal salary for this job, and then you don't have to give any taxes. But at the same time, we understand that business should be able to pay these salaries. So the Radical Party team is proposing a package of bills that will allow our business to develop. Enough to turn our country into a beggar who trades raw materials instead of trading finished products. Under the initiative of the Radical Party team, the Parliament passed legislation prohibiting the export of unprocessed forests from Ukraine in order to restore the timber industry in Ukraine, and today tens of thousands of Ukrainians have received new jobs. According to the Radical Party's initiative, the Act on the Increase of Three Exports of Metals was passed, so that our metallurgymen would work, not their competitors abroad. Instead, what did the European Commission do? They set up moments to push our metallurgical production out of the European market. It's a loss for every Ukrainian, because it's a loss of currency, it's a volatile price, and it's an unstable bracelet. We're asking the government to protect the national manufacturer in the external markets, to break through new markets, because we lost 45 percent of the Russian market. The vast majority of East enterprises, the southern part of the country, directed their production to the Russian market. Today, the task of power is to find new markets for people to have jobs and wages. The third key requirement of our budget is to pay attention to the displaced. Two million people lost their home, lost their job. We demand that in the State budget the cost of resolving the housing problems of displaced persons and their employment. And finally, the key is the village, the restoration of animals. In order to have life in the countryside, there must be a cow in each rural courtyard. We require the government to provide subsidies, state support for the restoration of the animal industry, for the restoration of the cattle’s head in the village. We demand that the authorities return to the cow face and to the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u13	Now it's the leader of the People's Front faction Maxim Burbak. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, welcome to all of you! Congratulations on yesterday's 7th of November, we voted in the first reading of the Electoral Code and finally started a professional discussion on changes in electoral legislation. I would like to remind you that the drafters of this bill are the speakers of the Supreme Council, Andri Parubius, and Leonid Yemen, are representatives of the People's Front, and have actively participated in the development of these very important documents. I remind you that the People's Front political party has consistently supported the implementation of the election system for open electoral lists. It was in our pre-election promises that we signed that when we all voted together to create a coalition, it's written in the Coalition Agreement, that the next parliamentary elections should follow open electoral lists and the details of this bill are very important. It also intends to address the issue of the Central Electoral Commission's activities, which, by the way, should eventually be re-elected, because its mandate has long been terminated. This is a matter of registering voters, it is a matter of the President’s election, and it is a matter of holding local elections, which are now taking place in all the unified local communities. And once again, I remind you that this document is very important and very important that we voted in the first reading yesterday and sent it to the course, a professional training committee where each of us, each of us, and each of us, and the principal, and the one who chose the election lists, can make his own proposals and professionally defend them in the profile committee. It's not like walking around, driving a cow on the streets of Kiev and other district centers, and feeding people a lot of fairies about the demands of the so - called new revolutionaries. I would like to remind you, and I regret that yesterday neither Derevyanco nor Semenchenko voted in favour of this bill, which was so popular with the open electoral lists and the next election of the next deputies. I want to remind them that the next election will take place in 2019, and they will be going through it thanks to our work on the profile committee, following open lists and following this legislation that we will adopt with you. I would like to remind these poor deputies that your primary responsibility is to work on the committees of profile, to draft quality laws and protect them on this stand. Yes, it may be more convenient for you to do this in the palace, but I remind you that voting for drafts in the session room is your duty. And once again, I call on all the deputies: to be as active as possible in developing this bill in quality and preparing for the second reading, and then he will receive the approval of this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u15	Thank you. First they're performing, then they're replicating. I ask those who speak not to mention the names so that we do not have time for gossip. At the same time, the voting system really testifies to who voted and who did not vote in favour of the Electoral Law. So comment to your voters, please, who was there at this time. Please, it's Maxim the Chicken. Chicken. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! There are very many issues in the agenda of the Ukrainian Parliament: the socio-economic development of the state; the rise in pensions, wages and job creation. But there must also be a moral issue in the order of the daily Ukrainian Parliament. I am forced to address you today with great regret at the fact that in recent times in Ukrainian society, there has been such a negative trend in the Ukrainian media — the hanging of labels. You can't do that. This Ukrainian Parliament has condemned criminal cooperation with the Separatists, the bandits and the terrorists who took over our part of our country. This Ukrainian Parliament has seen much in this room. There are a large number of businessmen in the past who have worked to create jobs and continue to develop the economy of Ukraine. And I'm very sorry to hear from the media, from the law enforcement investigation materials, that some of our colleagues are accusing them of continuing to cooperate with terrorists and Separatists. I urge you not to hang labels. Everyone has the right to defend himself. I was sad to hear similar information, a similar accusation about our colleague, my fellow countryman, Sergio Rybalka. I know him as a patriot, I know him as a responsible businessman. But what's been going on lately has to be investigated. I am convinced that our Ukrainian Parliament, which has voted by more than a constitutional majority to remove parliamentary immunity, will not hide and act as a political roof or as a "breathing," as the people say. I am convinced that everyone has the right to an honest name. I am convinced that the point should be put to the court in this matter. I am convinced that the truth always triumphs. That's why, dear colleagues, I ask and urge once again the Supreme Council of Ukraine to condemn any cooperation, economic cooperation, trade in "sieparas", with occupied territories, to give a political assessment first of all. And as for responsibility, everyone has to answer. And in order for there to be no abuse on this matter, I think it would be fair if our colleague Sergey Rybalka did not cover himself with either political parliamentary immunity or the title of head of the Committee on Banking. Colleagues, let's unite and politically condemn any cooperation with Separatists and Terrorists. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u17	Thank you. Please, Mr. Halasyuk is on his way. Mr. Victor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u18	Dear Andrija Volodymyrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, we have a choice with you: either allowing us to continue the economic policy that is taking place today, and this will lead our country to the brink of European civilization; or to radically change economic and monetary policy. If you and I are ready to settle for two or three percent of economic growth, we need to do what the authorities do today: take new IMF loans, export raw materials abroad and export Ukrainians who don't find jobs at home. If we want to become a truly European country not only geographically, but also economically, at the standard of living, at the level of prosperity, at the level of opportunity for our society, we need to choose another way. We need to increase the economy by two or three times. And that's true in the same ten years as other countries did. But this requires tools of a completely different kind. A real pro-Ukrainian policy is needed. We've already started with you, and you and I have already laid the foundation for such a policy in this Parliament. The law banning the export of roundwood from Ukraine, which Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko has already spoken about today, this law, has already created thousands of jobs! He's already brought billions of investments into this country. It protects Ukrainian interests, Ukrainian ecology, creates jobs. Or a metallurgical law that raises the three-point shift to metal scrap. Ukrainian steel mills with raw materials, not reduced tens of thousands of people, thank God, we have not lost more than a billion dollars a year in export balance. This is very important! Another example. Remember, Ukraine once imported sunflower oil. After more than 20 percent of sunflower exports were introduced, Ukraine became the world’s number one exporter of sunflower oil. We control 55 percent of the global market! That's $4 billion of U.S. export proceeds to our country with you. So this is the policy that we have to pursue in all of our sectors of the economy. To stop Ukraine from being essentially a raw exporter and an addition to the successful economies of other countries. We have every opportunity to do that. I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council, Andrey Volodymyrovich Parubia. Let's spend next week in Parliament, finally, Industrial Development Day, finally, we'll adopt laws on industrial parks, "Buy Ukrainian - Pay Ukrainians" (a new formula for government purchases), on free integration into engineering networks. Because of these laws, we're going to change the country, we're going to increase the economy, and we're going to be a real European success.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u19	Thank you. Now from the Radical Party, will Mrs. Yuzkov be speaking? Oh, they've passed it on. Lazy. Please, Mr. Lazov, give me your word. And then the last speaker is John Sporish. Replica, I remember everything, Mr. Derevyanka, I remember everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u20	Lozov, Radical Party of Lazka. Respectable Ukrainian citizens! We all have to be absolutely clear: the war is here. The war in peace seems to be our Kiev, where Russian terrorists are killing people, causing explosions and other terrorist attacks. The war in my native Plain, the heart of Western Ukraine, where a month ago the National Police co-workers were able to prevent a terrorist attack, a mine explosion was planned at the city’s central highway station, which could have killed dozens of people. Thank God it's over. You've all seen how aggressive, how ungodly, how cynical every kind of Russian agency works here. Citizens do not have the ability to feel safe right now. And the main task of the state, the main task, including all of us, is the security of the citizens. We, the Ukrainian Parliament, must do everything we can to make the Ukrainians feel safe, not as they are today. All saw the presumptuous terrorist act that had resulted in the death of our colleague Igor Mosiychuk, who had been retired by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and Ruslan Kushner, whom I had the honour to know, a fighter of the Special Unit of the National Police, was not in vain to create more than 60 border guards who, while protecting the sacred Ukrainian border, gave their soul to God for our compatriots, so that all of us today should be shown to be true statesmen, to help the law enforcement agencies, to help the powerful structures of fighting terrorism. We all have to live differently. We have a fine example of the State of Israel, which learned to live like this over 60 years ago, and despite the terrorist threats, everything is done in this country to make every citizen feel protected. And what is more, it's the crime scene in Ukraine that is no less dangerous. And our external enemy Moscow is using it. One of the reasons for the increase in crime, as in Ukraine today, is total poverty. Many people fall into outright banditry simply because they do not have a job, and they do not know how to feed their children.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u21	I just had one minute left, and I promised I was the last speaker. Thank you very much, thank you, Mr. Andrey. Please, the last speaker, Mr. Shinkovic, to whom the word Mr. Sporish is addressed. Thank you very much, we. so that they can keep the rules and so that they can all speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! The Supreme Council has entered the active phase of the budgetary process. In this connection, the faction of the Party of Peter Poroshenko emphasizes the need for no financial provision for the reconstruction of residential and water supply facilities in the front cities of the "raw zone". Last week, I recall a field meeting of the Committee on Construction, Construction, and HKG in Torretsk. Thanks to the joint work of the National Deputies, the head of the Ministry of Profiles, the head of the Military and Civil Administration and the representatives of the municipal enterprises, we have managed to identify the major problems that need us with you, your honorary colleagues, your common solution. Water supply remains the most vulnerable in the front zones. For example, the supply of water to Torretsk is made from the temporarily occupied Gorlov filter station. And in Austria, the appropriate infrastructure has not been reconstructed for more than half a century, and it is now being repeatedly attacked by terrorists and pro - Russian mercenaries. This puts cities with thousands of Ukrainians ahead of the territorial threat of an end to water supply, which could result in a humanitarian disaster. Funding for repairs, rehabilitation of critical infrastructures, and crisis management are essential. None of us want a repeat of a similar humanitarian disaster that was experienced by last winter’s audiences through active terrorist attacks on a city of hail. On the other hand, by placing infrastructure on the collision line and in temporarily uncontrollable areas, repairs are accompanied by a high risk to the lives of builders. Sadly, nine workers have already been killed by one of the repair companies. Thus, the development of alternative water supply routes for these cities, Toretska, Audiówka, Volnovaha, and others is becoming increasingly relevant. In order not to leave the residents for weeks without water in their homes as a result of fighting. Another problem was the early repayment of housing subsidies and the high debt of water companies for electricity. I'm going to remind you that water companies are forced to consume much more electricity to provide low-water areas with resources. At the beginning of the heating season, we must protect vulnerable populations by issuing subsidies to pay for utilities. This will allow both residents and service providers to enjoy a calm and comfortable heating season. Similarly, the debt of water suppliers cannot be ignored so that they do not stop in the freezing cold of winter. In part, we can solve these problems in the near future by supporting the budget changes for the current year, which offers to distribute 13 billion. The corresponding Bill 7,258 envisions more than half of the $7.6 billion in subsidies, another 1.8 billion in debt to water suppliers in Donbassa. So solving housing-communal problems in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u23	Thank you. We don't add to anyone. And that's how they got out of schedule. 30 seconds, Drevijanko, from the point of view. We've got replicas coming from the scene, not from the rostrum. Your Honor, you call for compliance with the Rules all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u24	Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Yesterday, I voted almost twice for the law that applies to electoral legislation. For the first time that a system of money that has been spent has not worked, the second time in writing to Mr. And it's very important that Mr. Andrey Parubay is blocking the ability to display voice-related statements on the website. But it is very important to us that you, the honourable ones you are yelling at and your representative, who said that people would see that you voted in such a way that the law was not passed yesterday. So in order for there to be no Habakkuk's backpackers, so that there are no tablets in the Ministry of Two, Three, so that there are no different armoured carriers and fuel that are also stealing, it's very important for us to change this legislation, so we're all going to keep a close eye on how you're going to vote in general, and this is the requirement of the people who are on the scene. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u25	Thank you. Colleagues, I would like to inform all the national deputies that there is no vote in writing on the Supreme Council. You can be in the canary and vote on the application, not in the hall. And it's, you know, special cynicism, special cynicism, to break down the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and then not vote for the reform voted by all of us who are in this room. It's a complete characterization of cynicism, cynicism and double standards that we see. Beating the back of Ukrainian border guards, breaking down meetings of the Conciliation Council, and then cynically not voting for the law that they claim to be speaking out. Let's stop this cynicism in the Supreme Council, give a political assessment to these people. Thank you, colleagues. Now there's a request from two factions for a recess, but two factions are ready to replace it with a tribune, this faction of Self-Help and Fatherland. And I'd like to ask, who's going to be speaking? Please, Semenha Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u26	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, the distinguished Ukrainian people! I want to thank the Ukrainian Parliament for the revolutionary decision yesterday to adopt the Electoral Code in the first reading, which introduces open party lists. I also want to thank the people whose peaceful protest made such a vote possible yesterday. Of course, the Supreme Council, taking such a positive step forward, at the same time the government's draft budget for 2018 is proposing to reject the country a few years ago. What do I mean? It's actually a total offer from the government to rob community budgets. The budget project for cities and communities translates additional, non-proprietary expenses while in no way increasing the tax base for the collection of such taxes. I want to give my colleagues specific figures, and what's going to cost the government this initiative. 8 billion dollars of public debt for residential services, 7 billion dollars of local government money should be spent extra on housing and utility benefits for individual categories of citizens, 2 billion dollars should be paid for the salaries of health workers, about 7 billion dollars should be funded to cover medical subsidies, about 4 billion dollars should be paid to local budgets for educational subsidies. Every city, every territorial community, will actually survive this budgetary terror that the government has offered. For example, Kharkiv will have to find an additional 2 billion dollars, Dnipro - 700 million dollars, Lviv - half billion dollars, Zaporozhye - almost one billion dollars, Odessa - 670 million dollars, Mikolayev - almost half billion dollars, Zitomir - 300 million dollars, Bila Church - 350 million dollars. Colleagues, this is a total mugging of community budgets, it shouldn't be. The self-help faction turned with hundreds of letters to city heads, village heads of Ukraine. I want to show you hundreds of, excuse me, dozens of responses from mayors of large and small cities who say they won't survive such an initiative by the government. Undoubtedly, this Supreme Council is very often objectively rightly criticized, but together with you and the government, we have made possible or not the most important reform – financial decentralization by the end of 2014. That's why we have to do everything we can to prevent total robbery, because it can't be like Go Great at Taras Bulba: "I gave birth to you, I'll kill you!".. I'm talking to the government. This budget, which is proposed with the total looting of local budgets, does not have the right to exist, must be turned around and thoroughly reviewed. I refer once again to the government: any practice of robbing Ukrainian people, the central government has always ended up in trouble. So I am convinced that there will be strong cities, strong communities, Ukraine. That's why we're talking to everyone, especially parliamentarians, who communicate with local government authorities, who know what kind of money this robbery is going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u27	30 seconds, please. Just get it over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u28	So we ask you to support and not allow the budgets of the community to be robbed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u29	So, colleagues, the speeches are over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall now, take up jobs, and let's go, colleagues, we'll get through the ratifications quickly. If we become more efficient, efficient, and concise, we will be able to quickly undergo ratifications that are our international obligations. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. And we go to the first draft of the law in today's agenda -- this is the draft law on the ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (number 0160). Colleagues, I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. For a reduced procedure, colleagues, support. Vote. [[10:45:13]] For-136 Not all have arrived, colleagues, let's take up jobs. It's a very simple logic: if we go into full procedure, it'll only be one bill before recess. I'd like everyone to take up their jobs. International politics has always united our hall, so please prepare for the vote. And I'm once again proposing to review the draft Law 0160 as a simplified procedure. Please support, Andry Volodymyrovich, I ask for your support, please vote. Ivanchuk, we vote! [[10:46:08]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Deputy Minister of Education and Science of Strych Maxim Vitaliovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u30	The Grand Head of the Supreme Council! The noble national deputies of Ukraine! You all know, unfortunately, the critical state with the energy efficiency of most of our universities: old, cold labs, auditoriums, dormitories, etc. The Higher Education Project, which is foreseen by the Financial Agreement between the Ministry of Education of Ukraine and the European Investment Bank, foresees that, at the first stage, the cost of which will be 81 million euros, the implementation of full-scale energy efficiency measures at 147 buildings of seven Ukrainian universities that represent geographically the entire strip of the north of Ukraine, where the climate conditions in this regard are the most adverse. In the second stage, it is envisaged that the same measures will be taken on a competitive basis by receiving other universities. The total cost of the project is, as I said, 160 million euros. Of these, the source of 120 million euros is the European Investment Bank loan, the 10 million euro-investment grant of the Eastern European Partnership Fund with Energy Efficiency and Environment and the 30 million euro-own funds of the borrower that are projected. Negotiations are now under way to raise the funds of the North Environmental Finance Corporation. Costs are involved for 20 years. Now with similar loans, the annual rate is about one percent of the European Investment Bank's loans. Please support this project, which is critical to our universities becoming energy efficient and able to provide quality services at European level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u31	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Hopko Committee, Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u32	Good day to you all, dear Ukrainians! The Committee on Foreign Affairs recommends that, as introduced by the President of Ukraine, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement (the Higher Education Project) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank be ratified by Parliament. I can also support our Ministry of Education and say that it is extremely important to invest in measures to increase the efficiency of university buildings and other investment related to the educational process. The project includes repairs to existing educational, research, and auxiliary facilities of a number of state universities in Ukraine to increase their energy efficiency and make other investments in educational equipment, also unrelated to the energy efficiency component. And it is very important that the European Investment Bank, which lends a total of 120 million euros, also provides for co-financing of a project, such as tax and customs payments, at the expense of state higher education institutions – participants in a project or from other sources not prohibited by legislation. The total period of repayment of the loan is up to 20 years from the date of granting an appropriate tranche of loan to the IMF. And now I would like to call on our control bodies, especially after we ratify this important agreement so that we can actually use these funds effectively. Since the Court of Auditors recently published a report on the results of the state of engagement and the use of loans from international financial organizations and there are many very problematic issues that have a negative impact on the state of the sample of international financial assistance funds from international financial organizations. There should be a clear strategy for reforming the relevant sector of the economy or of education, of energy. And that's why I really wanted these cats to be effectively and timelyly developed after the ratification. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss whether we can vote? Is that so or not? Here, says Roman, what it is. Okay. Please record: two in, two in. Olena Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Romanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u35	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, I would now like to address the entire room, in fact, to all the factions that are represented. Please mobilize your colleagues to finally vote for this important decision because our higher education institutions have been waiting for it for three years. Seven very powerful higher education institutions have already been audited, such as Kharkiv University of Technology, Lviv University of Technology, Poltava University of Technology, Vinicka University of Technology, Dragomanova University of Education, Sumski State University, Chernigu National University of Technology, Ivano-Frankow National University of Oil and Gas. So this decree provides support to these higher education institutions that geographically all of Ukraine. All these projects have already been audited. For three years, both students and teams have been waiting and running these institutions. Please support this very important decision, mobilize your colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u37	Jarinic Constantine Volodymyrovich, The Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u38	Please give the word to Alexander Spiowakovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u39	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko will support the ratification of the specified Financial Agreement in Law 0160. As a person who worked 39 years at the university, I want to say that this is a big problem for all of Ukraine's higher education institutions. Moreover, Ukraine has actually given up Russian gas, so the energy efficiency problem for Ukraine’s higher education institutions is very urgent. The huge buildings in which our students are taught should be provided with heat, otherwise a very large number of our universities or close to December - February, or in fact does not carry out the curriculum. So it's not just an energy efficiency problem, it's still a problem of the quality of our students' learning. But I want to pay attention to the future, by calling on the Ministry of Profiles, Maxim Vitaliovich Strych, I'm addressing you, I hope you can hear me now. I want to say that it would be very important to take into account the interests of educational institutions that are being evacuated from the ATO territory. This is normal because these universities have moved into our territory and are not actually able to effectively organize the learning process. That's why the Petra Prashenka Block faction, supporting this proposal to vote in full favour, calls for "yes", but in the future we ask very much to take into account the interests of those universities that represent Donetskina, Crimea and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u40	Thank you. From the Opposition Block of Dudenkov Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u41	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! A bill on the ratification of the International Legal Agreement is currently under consideration, which will allocate certain credit resources to finance the energy efficiency of higher education institutions. Energy efficiency issues are very relevant to the country because of the very high degree of degradation of transport, energy infrastructure. This leads to substantial energy costs. According to expert estimates, energy efficiency allows us to double GDP without further increasing the production of goods and services. But in addition to this, the trend is very frightening: these funds are issued under credit, and international financial organizations can only issue the specified funds under state guarantees. But the trend is this: now the government's debt and government-guaranteed debt is $77 billion. This is an unprecedented sum for all the years of country independence. In line with the state budget, the 7,000 project to be considered in the next plenary week is proposed to set the marginal level of government debt at the level - just think about it! - 100 billion dollars. We live in debt. We're going to have to pay the sums. Instead of involving additional credit resources under State guarantees, we see more well-founded and economically justified not to increase spending on the President's Administration, on the Cabinet of Ministers, on the Ministry of Internal Affairs in particular. That's about 11 billion dollars. This is a reserve that can be used not only to increase the energy efficiency of higher education institutions, but also to increase the energy efficiency of housing and industry. But the faction of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u42	Please add 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u43	But we support this bill, and we call for more attention to giving energy efficiency rather than increasing spending on the Presidential Administration or the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u44	Please, Sergey Eutusek of the Fatherland will be out of the place. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u45	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will support this bill because it actually provides for the inclusion of credit funds in our higher education institutions. I want to say that the representative of the Ministry was just talking about the pitiful state of all those schools, the labs, the dormitories. We know all that. But I have a second request. Perhaps you are, because the borrower is the European Investment Bank and Ukraine is speaking in the Ministry of Finance, and the responsible executive is defined by the Ministry of Education, so maybe you can actually create in the context of controlling this money, by their implementation. Or engage student, student self - government, representatives of parliament, the account room eventually so that the funds are not used and eventually not stolen. Because again, I'm telling you, we know very well the state of the art of buildings, schools, laboratories, dormitories and everything else in higher education. I would also like to draw attention to the observation made by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority that it would be advisable to provide more detailed information on the mechanisms for the application of the organisational and financial principles for the formation of interest rates on credit. I'll say that Fatherland will support this ratification, but once again I ask the representative who reported this bill from the government to draw our attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u46	Thank you. Colleagues, discussion over. Let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking everyone to come into the room. All factions supported it. And by the way, colleagues, I'll tell you what, we have four ratifications, we have the Youth Support and Sports Act. When everyone is in the room, is it important that this position be sounded? It takes 15-20 minutes, and so we don't get to go through all the ratifications and all the laws. Let's take this into account in the next ratification laws. Now, if you'd like to come into the hall. Please prepare for the vote. I'm begging you, they're coming. Is our young Eurooptimist going to make it? And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (No. 0160) on the proposal of the Committee as a whole. Come into the hall, don't come out, come into the hall. Please, in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:00:26]] For a hundred and We haven't been able to vote. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. Heads of factions and the Supreme Council's apparatus, the Secretariat, please invite the deputies to the Hall. I ask you on the board to show the results of the vote. The factions, yes. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 77, "National Front" – 71, "Resistance Block" – 17, "self-help" – 15, "Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka" – 12, "Fathership" – 5, "Will of the People" – 1, "Resurrection" – 2. There's potential in all factions to mobilize a special warehouse. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. Please invite the deputies to the hall. And I'm now proposing to return to ratification. Please come in. So please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote in favour of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Carefully, each voice matters. Please vote. Please be supportive. Sergei! [[11:02:12]] For 208 The MPs are not here yet. Please don't come out of the hall right now, or invite the deputies into the hall. Now I'm going to put it again, the deputies are going in literally. Please invite those who are in the towers. Vote. You're ready, aren't you? I just saw a shortage of colleagues. Give me 10 more seconds. So, can we vote? The factions have a high level of mobilization? So please prepare yourself, and be very careful, for each voice has meaning and weight. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote. This is a question that fully unites the hall. All those who spoke, all factions, expressed their support for the ratification. The only question is that we should be careful about voting. Please register. So let's go to the vote. Please take up your jobs. And I am voting on the proposal to go back to voting for the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (No. 0160). Colleagues, every voice. I beg you very carefully to vote, please support. Each voice has a weight. Vote very carefully. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:04:28]] For 226 226th. Please come into the hall. Don't leave. Don't leave, colleagues. What do you do in your head when you get out when you see that you're on board 226 and you're coming out of the hall? So please, everyone, get ready. And I'm putting to the vote the draft Law (0160) on the proposal of a committee as a whole. Please vote, please support. Careful, every voice! Please be supportive. Vote. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:05:11]] For 231 231st. Decision taken. Now, colleagues, I would like your attention very much! The factions. Please show me. Let's talk less about the next ratifications and make decisions, because then we have to humiliate all the halls by gathering MPs into the hall. That's why I'm asking you to stay put. We move on to the next issue of the ratification block. This is a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Regional Convention on pan-Euro-Mediterranean preferential rules of origin and (0167). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support me. [[11:06:05]] For-170. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Mikolska Natalya Jaroslavna. Natalia Jaroslavna, she had her birthday yesterday, so we join the Supreme Council in welcoming and welcoming you. [[Applause]] And I invite you to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u47	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! In fact, today we are looking at a very important bill for Ukrainian exports. We are introducing a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Regional Convention on pan-Euro-Mediterranean preferential rules of acceptance. The project is designed to bring Ukraine into this convention and it is important that this convention is not just a document that has no practical meaning, it is an important convention for the Ukrainian economy, because it opens up new opportunities for Ukrainian exporters. Export is an opportunity to earn for yourself and for the country. And we understand that this is Ukraine's economic independence. What is a pan-euro-med convention? The countries of the party to this convention can use raw materials and materials produced in one country's territory for the manufacturing process in another country without losing the rule of origin, that is, "what is yours is mine and mine is yours." What does it look like in practice? In manufacturing goods in Ukraine, raw materials and materials can be purchased in the convention countries with which Ukraine has entered into free trade agreements and is ready to export products to third countries. The same is true of Ukrainian materials and raw materials. So the convention is really important to the Ukrainian business. It will allow us to diversify our exports both from a geographical point of view and from a consumer point of view, and the possibility of involving Ukrainian companies in regional value chains. It is very important to conclude today's adoption of this bill to complete internal ratification procedures to join this convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u48	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u49	I want us to work together today to create Ukrainian export ambitions, and I ask you to support us by adopting the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u50	Thank you. To the co-report, I invite the head of the Hopko Committee, Anna Mikolayevna. It's as thin as possible. And I ask everyone to come into the hall, colleagues, please invite the deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u51	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Why is it very important for Ukraine to join the Regional Convention on the Euro-Mediterranean preferential rules of origin? Because after we have the Free Trade Agreement with the European Union, since August 1, this year, the Free Trade Agreement with Canada, the government is now, and in particular, Mrs. Natala Mikolska, are working very actively to get us to sign the Free Trade Agreement with Israel. After Russian military aggression, we also saw economic aggression, the blockade of Ukrainian goods, and therefore it is very important for us in our expert strategy to conquer new markets, and it is through this ratification that there is a potential increase in access to 42 countries and territories to domestic products. And it will help Ukrainian goods through bilateral free trade agreements to expand our representation in the Balkan countries, Turkey, the state of the Barcelona process is the Middle East and North Africa. And so it's extremely important to make more use of the country's productive potential, to facilitate trade in goods between the parties to the Free Trade Agreements, using the only unified rules of origin. So I wanted to thank Mrs. Natalie, the government for developing an expert strategy that we've been waiting for for a long time, because the economy of foreign policy and the promotion of our products is extremely important. And I would also like to say that today at 7:30 at the Committee on Foreign Affairs there will be a meeting with our Lithuanian friends, former Prime Minister Mr. Kubillus. All the factions, as well as the various committees, are invited to talk about a new European investment plan in Ukraine, so that we can work together on the subjective visions that we want to develop and invest in the strategic sectors of the economy. We also invite everyone, and I ask you to vote in favour of this important ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u52	Thank you, colleagues. Can we get to the vote? It's a discussion, isn't it? Okay. Please sign up: two in, two in. And I'm convinced that the speeches will only be at this convention and there's nothing else to talk about. Please, Baby Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u53	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Ministry of Economics is talking about our country's export ambitions of supporting a national producer. Unfortunately, your words differ, and your affairs differ radically. A year and a half ago, Parliament voted to establish an export credit agency to support our national producer in the external markets. I have a question, why isn't it still working? Because it's blocked by the Ministry of Economics because you don't care about the interests of the national producer. You're sitting on Parliament to cancel the moratorium on the exit of the forest because you need a loan from the European Commission and you want to continue to export the forest. Instead of agitating them to bring equipment here, to create jobs here in Ukraine, not to turn Ukraine into the raw material of this world. I didn't hear your word in defense of the national manufacturer, I don't see your business in defense of the national manufacturer. A month ago, the European Commission set a price hike for our metallurgical production, pushing us out of the European market. This is revenge for the decision to restrict the transfer of scrap metal from Ukraine, so that Ukrainian metallurgists can work, not their foreign competitors. Where is the position of the Ministry of Economics? Where is the government? Where is the protection of the national manufacturer and the Ukrainian metallurgy? He's gone. You're talking about the Treaty with the European Union, and you're the low-priced ones when you look at it? So that the Ukrainian farmer could sell more so that Ukrainian manufacturers could sell more. You've played deregulation, you think your main goal is deregulation, deregulation and deregulation. And I'll tell you another thing: your main goal is protectionism with respect to the national manufacturer in the external markets. What do your trades do? In addition to drinking vodka, when they finally begin to protect themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u54	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u55	When will they start protecting our manufacturers? When do you start smelling new markets: Iranian, Asian and all? So you have to talk less, and you have to go and smell, and you have to cut a window into Europe, and the whole world has to support a national manufacturer, so that Ukrainians can work and earn, not our foreign competitors.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u56	From the Peter Prashenko Block, the Jurinec gives Victor Pinzenic the word. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, let's separate the flies from the chops and the forest from that bill that we're offered to ratify. It's a very good bill. What does he predict? In order to recognize the product as originating in Ukraine, it must contain some of the value created in Ukraine. And then Ukraine will get the preferences it has in certain markets. What does this law allow for, ratification, accession to this covenant? It allows the use of products made in other countries, imported products, and by adding a small part of the value in Ukraine, to sell them as Ukrainian. The product is then recognized as originating in Ukraine. Previously, before joining this agreement, we couldn't export such goods as Ukrainian goods, after ratifying this agreement, we could export these goods. Therefore, this agreement expands the possibilities of Ukrainian exports. This agreement supports the Ukrainian producers. And so to all those who care about the support of the national producer, to expand its export capabilities, I ask you to support this ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u58	Thank you. Colleagues, discussion over. I ask everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs and prepare for the vote. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. All factions support the bill, all it takes is mobilization. And I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall, and I'm asking you to take up your jobs. We'll wait another 30 seconds, please. You're ready, aren't you? We can move on to making a decision. Please take up jobs. And I'm voting on the bill to join Ukraine in the Regional Convention on the Pan-Euro-Mediterraneans. the rules of origin (number 0167), at the suggestion of the committee as a whole. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. I ask you carefully to vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:17:17]] For 208 We didn't make it, I see we didn't make it. Let's invite some colleagues who haven't arrived. Do not leave the hall, please enter the hall. I'm asking the factions to help mobilize MPs now. This is the question of the international authority and responsibility of our country, and I ask everyone to come to the hall, through the message, through the text, please invite the deputies to the hall. Let me show you through the factions to see where our potential is hidden. The noun is -- there will be voices. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote, I'm going to make an offer to return to draft Law 0167. Please take up jobs. I urge you to take up your jobs. It's close, isn't it? And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 0167. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Vote. [[11:19:06]] For 219 We didn't make it. I see, no. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ivan Krulko didn't make it. Ivan! Everyone's in place now, right? Colleagues, please take your places. I don't want to use names, but... Just get to your jobs. So please prepare for the vote. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft law before voting for it (0167), and I'm asking you to vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, every voice. We'll wait until the MP logs in. We'll wait. You're ready, aren't you? Please, Maria, hurry up. Ready? Can we? Vote, colleagues, return to 0167. Let's vote, colleagues. we support in a coordinated and responsible manner. [[11:20:43]] For 234 We're back. And now I'm putting to the vote draft Law 0167 proposed by the committee as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. In general. Vote. [[11:21:08]] For 231 The law is passed. Congratulations. Welcome to the People's Deputies. And we're moving on to the following project: Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Promotion and Protection of Investments between Ukraine and OPEC International Development Fund (0161). But before all the factions, when they understand the situation in the hall, do they support them? Everybody backs up, right? Then let's move on. And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. [[11:21:55]] For-174 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade Nephrodov Maksim Evgenovich. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u59	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement on the Promotion and Protection of Investments between Ukraine and the OPEC International Development Fund is being submitted to your consideration. The bill ratified the agreement signed in Vienna between Ukraine and OPEC Foundation on 26 May 2017. This agreement aims to provide international financial support and investment cooperation for the Fund with Ukraine in addition to the existing bilateral and multilateral agreements under which the State and members of OPEC provide such support. The agreement provides for traditional items: the provision of the largest-promoting investment fund; the strengthening of guarantees against illegal expropriation and the nationalisation of investments; the exemption from the taxation of the investment-related fund transactions; internationally recognized procedures for settlement of investment disputes. Importantly, the operation of the agreement in Crimea and the city of Sevastopol is also limited to the restoration of full jurisdiction over them, as well as the territories of the individual areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, since Ukraine cannot guarantee full and effective protection of investments in these areas. The implementation of the agreements will contribute to the efficient use of economic resources, including the support of small and medium-sized enterprises in the area of infrastructure, energy and agribusiness, which in turn will contribute to improving the standard of living of the population. Ladies and gentlemen, please support and accept the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u60	Thank you for the comprehensive presentation of the bill. I invite you, a word for the report to the head of the profile committee in the foreign affairs of Hanni Hopko. Mrs. Anna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u61	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Since it is very desirable to vote and ratify one important treaty in the area of ratification, energy efficiency before the break, I would like to say that the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 4 October has considered the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement on the Promotion and Protection of Investments between Ukraine and the OPEC International Development Fund, tabled by the Government of Ukraine and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill as a basis and as a whole. And ratify this agreement. Please ratify it and vote, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u62	Thank you. Colleagues — Is There a Need to Discuss? There is a need to discuss. Please sign up for the discussion. Please, Oleg Lazko of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u63	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Investment protection is key to the country's economic development. Because no investor will come, he will not bring his money, which means that there will be no jobs for Ukrainians when the investor is not sure that his money is secure. But I wonder why we're here in Parliament all the time protecting and calling an external investor? I am convinced that the engine of the country's development is an internal investor, our citizens, our entrepreneurs and our business. So we're adopting laws that give the foreign investor the opportunity to purchase Ukrainian securities without tax. Why, then, should our Ukrainian investors pay taxes?Oh, my God! Where is equality under the Constitution? Where is the equality for a foreign investor and for an internal investor? We're waiting for a panacea from abroad. That's the little brother Lithuania's Marshall's plan, and everyone's talking about Marshall's plan from Lithuania. With all due respect to Brother Lithuania, but Marshall's "plan" is impossible without the participation of the United States. Are the United States ready, like 70 years ago, to propose a Marshall plan for Germany, to offer it today for Ukraine. The trade that came out of the climate treaty in Paris, Trump, who broke the trade deal with Mexico, Trump, which cancels Obama Care for his own Americans. Are they willing to give $50,100 billion to the country’s development? No, of course not. Can the European Union give us Marshall's plan? The European Union, which requires forest in exchange for credit, requires scrap metal. Marshall's Plan is not just an investment, it's a new market. And that's why Marshall's plan should be one -- the Ukrainian plan, the stakes on its own investor, on its own investments, on its own. A radical change in economic policy. Not to search abroad for a panacea, but to wipe your eyes and see that the forces of Ukraine are in Ukraine itself, in Ukraine itself, in Ukraine, in its own investor and in the faith.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u64	Thank you. Please, Alexy Dusty. It'll come out of the place, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u65	The Peter Dustenk Party faction will support the ratification of the agreement. And it's very important that we understand that foreign investments are in no way. They're just adding to the internal investment that's going on inside the country. We are now discussing an agreement with OPEC that prescribes clear steps of cooperation and interaction between investment projects in Ukraine. This will allow more foreign investment to be invested in the most important economic sectors of our nation. In particular, it will be through the creation of transparent and clear investment rules, reliable investor protection by international legal mechanisms and the introduction of favourable administrative conditions. Such cooperation will allow additional jobs to be created in Ukraine and will provide more opportunities for the population to realize their potential. With this in mind, by supporting an internal investor, we also support foreign investment and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u66	Thank you for the faction's position. Please, from the Opposition Block, I understand, Igor Shurma will be speaking. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u67	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, any ratification voted in this Hall is a confirmation of Ukraine's international image. I believe that today's vote for that ratification is the irresponsibleness of those who make this decision and of those who vote here. Let me explain why. This is about encouraging and protecting investments between Ukraine and the OPEC International Development Fund. That's very good, but let's see what we have today in reality. The Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, which are an integral part of Ukraine, are temporarily occupied and the position of the treaty is not extended to these temporarily occupied territories until they have restored the full jurisdiction of the receiving party. Instead, we have today several regions, areas of Lugansk and Donetsk de facto areas that are not controlled by Ukrainian authority. And today, the receiving party of Ukraine is unable to ensure effective control and protection of investment in these areas. Confirmation is that there's a criminal decision not to pay pensions in those regions, there's a transfer of subsidies to medicine, there's an education, there's a culture where they take money, there's a transfer to other areas. So Ukraine itself doesn't control its budget, and it admits it, but it's about international investment. If someone is cunningly crafted and believes that investment will only go to other regions and territories, with the exception of Lugansk and Donetsk regions, then I'm sorry, it's not patriotism. Or we're investing and we're investing all over Ukraine and we're treating all of the citizens of Ukraine who live, including in the Lugansk and Donetsk region, we have to guarantee and protect those investments. We always support ratifications and look at the previous vote, without us there is no positive vote. So I think the fate of this vote is negative. Thank you. We don't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u68	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please return to the session room. This will be the final performance of the People's Front factions. An expert on this subject, Mrs. Natalia Katzer-Buchovska. Please, she'll be speaking. Colleagues, I ask you to return to the hall in two minutes. Please, Mrs. Natala.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u69	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I would like to stress once again the improbability of this ratification of the agreement with the OPEC International Development Fund. For those who do not know what OPEC is and how it works. In principle, it's an organization that covers the term risks of countries where there are large credit risks to investors. So they're actually going to cover our country's risks, and they're going to be able to reduce the costs involved in the state of Ukraine. This is a very important signal for a Western investor, for American investors who can come to Ukraine. We should not compare this with other tools. And this agreement provides a specific tool. This mechanism is still working today, and this agreement will only make it easier for the investment that our economy needs so much. So I would like to support it in its entirety with an important ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u70	Thank you. So the discussion is over. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall, and I'm asking you to take up your jobs. Please come into the hall, let's move on to making a decision. The discussion is over. I'm going to ask everyone to come to the hall. Can we vote? Everyone, please prepare for the vote. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. Because there's something I don't know that we're going to vote for the first time. So I am voting on the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement on the Promotion and Protection of Investments between Ukraine and OPEC International Development Fund (No. 0161) for the proposal of the Committee as a whole. Please vote, please support. Every voice. Colleagues, every voice I ask you to support. Vote. [[11:33:13]] For 184 I asked if everyone in the room was in favor. He said, if there's anyone in the room against him, he should go up and say so. Why would I do that? Please include the factions. Please take your jobs, I'll put you back. Please invite the deputies into the hall. I'll wait another 30 seconds. Don't leave the hall! So, colleagues, I'm going to put it back. Don't leave the hall, please. And I'm going to ask the people's deputies, if they don't make it, would you support the committee for work? So we don't reject the bill. Guys! Colleagues, I'll put a return on the vote, if I don't get through, I'm going to propose to the committee to work on it, so we don't collapse the international document. So take up jobs. I'll put it back on the table first. I'll offer to back up the committee's proposal, if it doesn't pass, then return to the committee. Agreed? Then I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I am now voting on the proposal to go back to the consideration and vote on the proposal of the committee of draft law 0161. Please vote, please support, please vote. [[11:36:29]] For-195 I won't. Now, colleagues, I'm going to make the following suggestion: return to the committee for a second first question. And I'm asking you very much, let's support this proposal in groups, don't leave the hall. Well, colleagues, how can you do that?Oh, my God! We're collecting a voice. Please, I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. And I'm asking you to support a compromise proposal, return to the committee for re-reading so that we don't reject the bill. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall and I'm asking you to support everyone. So this proposal is supported? I'm voting on the proposal to return draft law 0161 to the committee for re-reading. Colleagues, please vote and vote. Please vote, please support, this is a compromise proposal. Support me, colleagues, we're voting. Please be supportive. [[11:37:55]] For 199 The next proposal is for the subject of the legislative initiative. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Now Pinzenik has a minute to explain how we can act. And I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. Please, Victor Pinzenik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, this is not about the ordinary law, but about the ratification of the agreement signed by Ukraine. We can't be very happy today with either internal or external investment, because there's not a proper investment climate. So we should welcome any step that makes it possible to open the road to investment. This agreement allows access to credit and investment by the respective OPEC country fund. This is an extremely important decision for Ukraine, and I would ask my colleagues to support this decision. This is not about specific projects, this is about the prospect of funding and lending to Ukraine. So we have to decide whether to review the law again or any other option, but we can't rule out the agreement that was made for ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u72	I agree with you, and I ask everyone to come into the hall. And I'm going to make an offer to return the subject to the legislative initiative. It's actually going to be the Ministry, but it's not a conflict. I'm asking you to support her, colleagues. Colleagues, please come into the hall and support, this is a completely compromising offer. Please, Debenkov, one minute. And if you'd like to come into the hall, I'll wait another 30 seconds for a representative of the Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would like to stress once again the position of our faction that does not support the draft. Of course, we support the idea of mutual investment protection, we fully support the idea of investment involvement, whether internal or external, there is no dispute. But the very text of the treaty states that investments in the areas listed above, namely, some areas of Luhansk, Donetsk region, are not allowed under this agreement. In fact, if you want to reintegrate these areas, you don't need to mention these exceptions, because in the very text of the international treaty you're saying about mutual protection of investments in Ukraine without any exceptions: Crime, uncontrolled areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk region. And we support this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u74	Thank you. I want to address those MPs who don't vote. Do you understand what a suggestion is to return to the committee? It's not even a first reading, it's an opportunity not to overwhelm the idea itself. And all the literate people, you realize that coming back to the committee gives you a chance to make these adjustments that are in the hall, fix them and re-impose them. This is a completely compromising offer. And if you support the idea itself, you should support the idea of going back to the committee for the first time again, and the committee will consider these proposals that were sounded, there's no other way. That's an understandable offer, and it has to be supported by all the halls. And I ask everyone to prepare for the vote now. I'll make that offer again. I ask you to support her as much as possible. Now, while the MPs are on their way, Maxime Nepheods, one minute, please. And come into the hall, heads of factions help, invite the deputies into the hall. Nephrods, one minute. Comment on the MPs ’ warnings.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, I would like to comment on the fact that we do not guarantee the protection of investment in Crimea and in certain areas. This is a standard amendment to all investment protection contracts. If they're not, anyone who has the Russian Federation to nationalize any asset or not to grant him the right to a fair trial of the courts will be sued for damages not to the Russian Federation as an aggressor country, but to Ukraine. I mean, if we don't include this reservation, we're going to take responsibility for the illegal actions of the Russian Federation. This is absolutely unacceptable, and all countries that face such incidents, such as Croatia, they include such reservations in their respective agreements. This is a normal situation for restoring full control of these areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u76	So, colleagues, you got the position. I would like to stress once again, it's a very complicated option: to return to the committee for further work. I'm asking everyone to maximize their mobility, and I'm asking you to support this. So, colleagues, take up jobs. I'm putting the vote back on draft law 0161 to return to the committee for further work. I ask everyone to take part in the vote and I ask you to support me, colleagues, everyone please hear me now and take part in the vote. Vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please support everyone on the committee for the ugly first reading 0161. [[11:43:51]] For 193 There are people in the hall, there is no political will to vote. Please, Irina Lucenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, our representatives, the distinguished representatives of the Opposition Block, have just spoken about the Law on the Reintegration of Donbass, on the Protection of Investments. What makes possible this convention, this OPEC International Development Fund? When is this agreement aimed at increasing the volume of foreign investment in key areas of the economy, attention, support for small and medium-sized enterprises in different areas, what will this agreement do? Providing investors with the most supportive regime, securing guarantees against illegal expropriation, and nationalizing investment. What's happening right now is in the east, where separatists and representatives of the Russian Federation are expropriating, taking away local business, not allowing people to work. In addition, the State commits itself to providing guarantees for a fair and timely compensation for the costs and investments that mark the loss in Ukraine. That's an extra guarantee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u78	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u79	This is an additional guarantee to those territories, those entrepreneurs, and those enterprises, that the State guarantees and assumes additional obligations. Actually, this is the part of reintegration that we talked about. This is part of the strategy by joining this international organization and this Statute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u80	So, colleagues, I'm putting the last sentence on the vote, that's it. Please, Shurma. One minute. Turn on Shurmi's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u81	Igor Šurma. My answer is on the line for the Opposition Block. Look, two ratifications were considered earlier today. Without the votes of the Opposition Block, the agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank would not be ratified by the Regional Convention on the Euro-Mediterranean preferential rules of origin. We made it clear that we were for the international image of Ukraine. Today we have a clear position, and we have the right to ensure that the international agreement will not later be a cause for the mockery of Ukraine, we will not protect foreign investment in those territories. This is the first one. And the second is very basic. Well, colleagues, you always say that the coalition, well, you should have 226 votes today without the Opposition Block. We have our firm stand, and we sound it publicly. Come into the hall and don't let the chairman down.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u82	Colleagues, I give my word, hoping there's a change in position, not for discussion. Let the colleagues, now I know, go mobilize in the hall, the deputies call and while the deputies enter the hall, there's still a minute. Pinzenic. Please, Victor Pinzenik. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, what is the point of this discussion? Whether to commit to Ukraine to investments in Crimea and in temporarily occupied areas of Donbas. I have another offer. Let's go back to the committee and make a warning of the next order that the relevant norms are no longer valid when Ukraine regains control of the occupied territories and the return of the Crimea to Ukraine. And I think we're going to take down the questions that concern some of our colleagues. Come on. Offer: Let's go back to the committee to prepare for a new submission.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u84	As soon as Victor Pinzenic made the offer. I want to ask you a question. If I put Pinzenic's proposal on the committee with those standards, will it be supported or not? Colleagues, we have a decision to make now. This is an assignment to make a decision. So I'm going to ask those who voted against it again. Will this proposal be voted on? Well, then why continue the discussion? We have another ratification that we can now vote on. If we do not have votes, why? Colleagues, do any of you have any suggestions on how to proceed to a successful vote? I have a suspicion that I don't. We can have another ratification now or not. You'll suggest how to make a decision, won't you? Let's do two more speeches per minute, and we'll go to the vote. Easy, one minute. Dombrowski, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u85	Dear Mr. Head, you do not know how to act, act by law, there is a familiar expression. The solution is one. There are no votes in Parliament right now. It's the Ratification Act. If there are no votes today, then there will be a postponement of consideration of the matter when there will be votes. Let's see tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, and so on. The law is not rejected because it is the Ratification Act. Now for the decision in general. Now, Honorable Comrade Shurma says, "where is your coalition," "we are the opposition" and so on. The Radical Party is also in opposition. But when it comes to protecting investments, creating jobs in Ukraine, making Ukraine strong, no matter whether you are in opposition or in coalition. You have to vote for the Ukrainians to have work and pay and for our country to be strong. And that's why our team, in opposition, is voting for decisions that will enable Ukrainians to get jobs, pay, make a strong country. The opposition, the coalition, is in politics. If you raise people's wages and pensions when you create jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u86	Thank you. I just want to inform you. Oleg Valeriyovich, I want to inform you. There is no such mechanism in the law to postpone voting to another day, there is no such mechanism. I'm trying to act legally. The law does not provide for such a form. Please, Dombrowski, give me a minute. And we're moving on to making a decision. They didn't insult you, they didn't insult you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u87	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I am addressing all the national deputies present in this room today. We don't have the moral right with you that the Ukrainian Parliament today simply disregards a very important interstate document that we should ratify with you. If today, in this room, not in terms of political opposition, but in terms of, unfortunately, there is no simple work discipline, not enough people's deputies in this room, then I would like to concentrate. And if you don't back up, vote, then return to the committee. And for us not to be, well, I'm sorry, but a disgrace. Because it looks just like a disgrace to the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u88	So, colleagues, I'm putting the last sentence on the vote. The draft Law 0161 should return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[11:52:34]] For-198 This proposal, like the previous one, did not receive a vote. I'm going to consult with the lawyers on how we can act in this situation so that we can get that bill out and consider it again. I'm not rejecting him. I'm just stressing that I didn't get the right number of votes. And the lawyers and I are going to make a mechanism for how we can set it up and look at it in the hall. Colleagues, I thus see no reason for the next ratification. Anna, I'm afraid we're about to reenter a long-term, semi- Comedy situation. Okay. I'll do what I did yesterday before the next ratification. I'll run a previous vote, a rating. So we have the next draft of the decision left in the Ratifications Block. This is a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Statute of the International Agency for Renewable Energy (0164). I am now conducting a rating vote for support. If there's no support, we're going to go straight to the draft law on the HKG. So I ask you to participate in the rating vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't hear you yelling, even though you're yelling loudly. I stress the right of the presiding officer to vote in advance in order to determine the level of his support in the Hall. And I'm now putting a rating vote on the issue of supporting the draft Law 0164. Whoever supports this ratification, please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:54:42]] For 208 208, we can go through. Isn't it? We're going to mobilize. Then, please, colleagues, we have it. Excuse me? Maxim, I can't hear you from here, if you don't mind. Maxim, I can't hear you. If you could come up and tell me. Thus, votes are not enough to yield a positive decision. And we're going to draft the Housing Services Act (1581). This is rereading the second reading. It does not provide for a special procedure. Well, third reading. Rereading. It is not mentioned in the Rules, the second or the third. And I invite you to a report by the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban Development, and ZHG Babak Olen Valeriyevn. Go to the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u89	Break in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u90	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The draft Housing and Utilities Act was adopted on February 2nd last year by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis. On May 16, this year, a second reading was sent to the committee. So the bill has a long history, but it's absolutely necessary for both consumers and for housing providers. The bill is supported today by the Association of Ukrainian Cities, a branch association that is marked by numerous appeals and letters to the committee and probably to the mailboxes of each of you. During the drafting of the bill, 103 amendments were made to the second reading. In all, Bill 543 today, 343 of which are included, 194 are rejected as being contrary to the concepts and tasks of the project. The committee drafted the bill and approved by the committee table 12.04. 2017, and it was presented. Forgive me, this was considered in the second reading, an editorial was discussed and presented in a comparative table on the Web site of the Supreme Council. 17 years old. I note that 30 rights have been introduced by a group of national deputies (Andryivski, Babak, Stasuk, Kodol, Shinkovic, Galchenk) as structural. The Committee decided, in accordance with part three of article 119 of the Supreme Council's Rules, to make a proposal to Parliament for a reduced procedure for discussing and voting in favour of the structural parts of the bill, which contain substantive, decisive, generating positions. A bill with observations was called for by the Chief Legal Authority. With a view to resolving housing relations and considering the long-awaited need for adoption of the project, a comparative table was considered at its meeting on 21 June 2017 before Bill 1581 by the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be adopted in a second reading and in general, there is a law in an approved committee. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u91	Thank you. Ah, you haven't finished yet, have you? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u92	Yeah. I want to say that the bill today is extremely important, it is crucial that we don't stop the process of reforming housing services, and that in the end, those Jackies that people already want to replace to their managers, with whom they can agree at the cost of providing housing services, so that eventually this process starts. Because the bill establishes all the principles, contractual work of the consumer with the administrators and with all the providers of utilities, water, thermal energy, waste management companies, electricity, gas. So the whole housing-communal service complex and the contractual principles of consumer relations with the providers of these services are presented in the draft law. So it is extremely important and absolutely relevant today for every Ukrainian consumer. Therefore, it is a great request to go through the drafting process constructively, effectively, and to vote in favour of the bill in the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u93	Thank you very much. I would like to inform all members of the People's Parliament that 543 amendments have been made to this bill. Much of them were rejected. And after the break, I ask all right-wing authors to prepare themselves for a constructive, systematic work on this bill. Now, Mrs. Olena. According to the Rules, I have to announce a 30-minute recess, and at 12:30, we'll move on to the law review. And I ask all right-wing authors to prepare for a fruitful, constructive discussion. Thank you. At 12:30, everyone is invited to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, ready to work? The time for recess is over, I ask the people's deputies to come into the hall and prepare for a constructive, systematic amendment work for the bill. I'm asking you all to come to the hall. Yes, MPs enter the hall actively, the number of deputies is increasing and increasing. I don't see much right-wing authors. So let's move to the right, please prepare the authors for discussion. Declined, I'll call only those who are rejected. If anyone wants to bet on confirmation, he just has to raise his hand and by raising his hand to ask for word. 5th. Sphinx. Don't insist. 6th. Cooge. Don't insist. 8th. Kudlainka. Don't insist. 9th. Don't insist. 10th. Tree tree. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u95	Good afternoon! Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". Edit No. 10 rejected. I suggested that part of the first article 1 be supplemented by a new point in the next paragraph in order to make utilities available, which is the subject of farming, which produces or creates utilities. I think that a manufacturer can be a party to contractual relationships in the provision of housing services, for example, and the disposal of garbage, and there is no need to impose only intermediaries or monopolists on the consumer. So it's only possible that this could lead to a road trip to its own utility. So I'm asking you to vote on this amendment, and I'm asking you, in general, in this bill where it's about imposing exclusive collective agreements, putting number four on confirmation, because it's very fundamentally important for people to be able to choose: either individual contracts, or collective agreements. And so that collective agreements don't be signed for people who don't actually want to participate in collective agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u96	I'd like to comment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u97	About the 10th Amendment. Dear colleague, you propose to include the manufacturer's side of the contractual relationship in the system. In fact, it's about the provision of public services and, according to civil law, when it comes to services, on the one hand, we have a service provider, and on the other hand, we have a customer. This is a fixed terminology of civil law in contracts that are made for the purpose of receiving services. Therefore, the manufacturer is not a party to a civil service contract. So what we're talking about is that the manufacturer who makes the contract at the time he makes the contract is acting as the service provider. So we've moved away from this term that exists in the current Housing and Utilities Act from this definition of "producer" and left only the contractor. Although all utility manufacturers, they are within this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u98	Thank you for your clarification. Let us put to the vote Amendment 10 of the People’s Deputy, please. The committee turned her down, yes. We're putting only those who have rejected the committee now, and if anyone insists on another, I'll focus on that. [[12:36:38]] For the 17th. 17 votes, 200 other deputies failed. Moving on, Kudlainka, 14th Amendment. Don't insist. Wooden, 23rd, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! Amendment No. 23. In fact, it's a collective agreement, it's a community service agreement, made up of the contractor, the producer of utility services at the decision of the co-owners. Under the conditions laid down in the decision of the owners, the pooling of the owners of the apartment building. And here's the important thing, right now, I'm focusing on your attention taken on the basis of the personal written statement of each of the co-owners of the apartment building. This amendment is designed to protect the rights of consumers of public services, since collective agreements in the committee's proposed form will result in conscientious consumers being forced to pay for unconscionable ones. And as a result, the entire house will be deprived of the possibility of receiving residential services. And today, monopolies will be able to force only collective bargaining without making individual contracts. So please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u100	Please give a brief comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, we propose not to introduce any other mechanisms for decision-making by co-owners of a multi-housing house, except for the mechanisms described in the Law on Property Characteristics in a multi-housing house. There are detailed mechanisms for making decisions in a multi - apartment building. If we start creating new mechanisms, signatures like this, signatures like that, most of them, minority and so on, we have a conflict with how decisions are made in a multi-housing house by co-owners. And since the consumer is always the owner who can rent his property and so on, that is, we always have the customer's side of the owner and he's making a decision about what kind of contracts are going to be in the house, so making decisions about monopolistic model choices is taken in the house in accordance with the property specifics law in the apartment building. And that's why the committee rejected the offer of an honorary.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u102	I understand the position of the committee. Dear colleagues, the session room is now to be decided as to amendment No. 23, a villager of the national MP who was rejected by the committee. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:39:28]] For-21 Others have not been as successful as we have always been when we are looking at adjustments. And now we're going to move on, and you're going to have to make some adjustments. Yuri, I'll give you my word on the amendments. Next amendment number. No, we still have that. Colleagues, now, please. We had the 23rd here. Now there's 33 amendments. I hear 32-a is the amendment that. 32nd counted editorially. Babak. Please, Drevijanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, please place number 32 on confirmation. This amendment proposes the introduction of fees for subscription services, which can lead to a significant increase in housing and utility services. The author proposes that the bill has now been made that the subscription fee is the payment that the consumer pays the public service provider under an individual contract for the provision of utility services in a multi-room building, in addition to natural gas and electricity services, to compensate for the cost of the performer of the contract for the provision of utility services, for the distribution of the amount of services consumed between consumers and for the collection of fees for the utility services consumed, and for the costs of trust, service and repair. In order to avoid any abuse of these so - called subscribers and the settlement of these subscribers, please place this amendment for confirmation. And in general, I think that if we have all sorts of services that we understand, direct relationships with the service provider, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u104	Thank you. Please comment to the committee. And I ask the committee to then fix those amendments that will apply to confirmation in the context of the possible balance of the law. Please, Mr. Babak, 32nd is your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, the bill foresees four options, four models of consumer relationships of a multi-room house with monopolists – individual contracts, in which each of the subscriber's fees is charged, contracts that the FSB can make as a collective consumer on its own, collective agreements, where each consumer individually has an authorized person who makes contracts on their behalf, and today's situation of an individual contract without determining who is responsible for the quality, i.e. four options. Subscription services are only used when individual contracts are included: a monopolistic apartment. Today, to your knowledge, I want just to give you an example of the city of Kiev, but please excuse me, just on your example, I'm going to show you that the water and water to the house costs $14.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u106	Thank you for your clarification. Please, at the request of Derevyanka’s deputy, place on the confirmation of amendment 32 that the committee has taken into account. The committee's asking for her support. [[12:42:57]] For-57 This amendment is not supported. Next 35th. But no. 36th People's Deputy Kugel. 36th Krulka. Please, Ivan Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u107	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Now, I would like to pay attention to all the viewers, the Ukrainians who listen to this broadcast and the "Work" broadcast. Well, look what the whole committee's offering you. Customer service fee. What is it? It is now anyone who supplies you gas, electricity, other services, heat, who will add to the cost of so - called customer service. Although I would like to say that it is already paid for subscribers’ services, it is included and calculated at the rate itself. And these are the extra fights for those dragon tariffs that people are paying today, and they're offering to make this law. So we're offering as Fatherland to rule out this item in general and not to collect extra customer service fees from people, taking into account that there's an additional service for managing a multi-room house. So how much extra payments must a Ukrainian citizen pay today to get this service, the utility?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u108	Please comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u109	I'm asking you a lot of time to explain. First of all, when you said that the subscription fee is charged by electricity and gas, no, it says, "outside." So in the case of contracts for gas and electricity, which are purely direct, exclusively individual, exclusively for individual meters in apartments, that's not included. As far as water and heat are concerned. It will be applied only to these services. I set the example of Kiev. The house costs water and water supply at the price of $14.08 to the apartment - 15.792. The limit of fifty-eight is the difference between the cost of water to the house and the apartment. It's today. So on the 10 cubes, you and I are paying 15 dollars today. And what do you pay for, who knows? It's written that it takes into account the service of interior networks. No, it's not. Not included in this 1 bracelet is 58 interior network services. They're on a house maintenance tariff, in what's called a neighborhood payment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u110	Thank you. And now we're voting on this amendment number 36. Please make up your mind. [[12:45:52]] For-28 Twenty-eight votes were the only ones that supported it, and it didn't take the necessary amount. Please, the microphone you want for confirmation? There's a 38th tree in front of 39th. Are you insisting on 38th? Don't insist. Please, Kugel insists on confirming 39 revisions, her microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u111	Thank you. I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens who live in a multi-family house. This law is being considered a fourth time. But what I'm saying is, from the last second reading to this reading, nothing's really changed. It should be written that this is not the law of the National Deputies, and this is the law of Alona Babak and the committee that deals with these matters. Because they're the only ones who've made it through. The bill proposes a complicated structure for the payment of municipal services. We have a fee for the service that is calculated by leaving the tariffs. We have fees for subscription services, extra payments, where the marginal size is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. We have, the consumer pays the manager an undetermined salary and has no right to influence him if he is bad and to release him. We have maintenance fees, current repairs. More than 50 percent of the articles from first reading to second were introduced new ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u112	There will be an explanation of the committee. Please. Please turn on Mrs. Kugel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u113	I'm waiting. Thank you. I suggest you apply 39, 40, 41 for confirmation. It's written that they're partially accounted for. What did they count? Services for the management of a large apartment building. All of this, they took this norm into the law, what they were comfortable with. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u114	Thank you. But I now give the floor to a comment by a representative of the profile committee. Mrs. Allona, please, and then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u115	All of these changes, this is the right of the people's deputy Kudlayenka, Martovitchki, Sazko, to take some of the editorial elements out of these definitions, because this is about terms and definitions. The committee considered all the proposed texts that were given by the deputies, defined the only formulation, and today you see in the draft law the final wording of those definitions that were proposed by the people's deputies, what are "communities," "management services," who is "consumer." Now I honestly don't understand why I'm putting them on the stand, but this is. Because there's no subscribers here, it's utilities, it's a management service, it's a consumer, it's a manager, it's the MPs who made their proposals for definitions. So, honourable colleagues, I don't know, they're part of the committee, because they're generalized and they're all summed up into a single formulation that everyone has. I don't really understand what we have to do with this right now, because they're partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u116	Mrs. Kugel, please explain to the session room, do you insist that the room vote (now, now) so that these amendments are not taken into account at all, or that they be taken into account in full?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u117	Not counting at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u118	Mrs. Kugel demands that the amendments that are partially considered by the committee be confirmed because she believes that they should not be taken into account at all. Such a position is a member of parliament who requires confirmation. And we put to the vote 39, 40, 41 amendments. I would like to point out that the committee has supported them, and they are related to definitions, definitions of the norms that are referred to in the relevant article of the bill. Please read article 39. The committee's asking for support. [[12:50:31]] For-72 72 deputies supported it. Let's move on. 40 amendments that apply to terminology, and the committee asks for support, to vote in favour. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:50:54]] For-78 78 votes for. This amendment does not go through. And 41 amendments apply to terminology. Please vote. Now. We're just moving 41st, and you're talking 62nd. [[12:51:15.]] Z-77 77. Not supported. 48th, Kugel. He insists on 48th? Don't insist. Next. Martovitch, 51st. Don't insist. Martovitch insists, right? Which one, 62nd? 52nd. That's all I can see. Yes. 46 for confirmation, 52th. Then 46th. 46, yes, and 48. I've announced, Mrs. Kugel, you may not have heard. Well, you didn't hear me. 46th needs confirmation, Mrs. Kugel. Please, Mrs. Kugel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u119	I want you to pay attention to article 2 that appeared after your first reading. Here the subject of regulation of this law is the relationship that arises, and we still think that you're still affected by multiple apartment buildings. But there is a similar relationship between the supply and distribution of electricity and natural gas to consumers in residential, garden, garden, and tax homes. Note this. That is, this law was applied only to apartment buildings, and is now extended by a committee amendment to the consumer of residential, residential, garden, and nursing homes. Please do not support 46 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u120	Thank you. Please, I'm putting to the vote Amendment 46. And I ask you to vote in favour. The committee's asking for a vote. Please. [[12:53:22]] For-74. Not confirmed. Next. 48th. I can see it, and I announced it, and you just didn't hear it. Mrs. Kugel's microphone, please. 48 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, you remember that two years ago, Mrs. Babak, in this room, passed a bill on OSBB, you know that this process worked only in new buildings. You've heard the last incident in Dniprosyrdinski when the plate killed a 17-year-old boy who already had a steward, according to the bill. But when the population told him that it was necessary to repair the house, they were told: “At their own expense. ” So 60 percent of the population outside the poverty line is going to be distributed these extra subscribers' salaries. But with my correction, I'm talking about what Mrs. Babak did. For those who have made OSBB, all these extra subscriber salaries do not touch, it is said that this law has no effect on the houses where the OSBB works. Excuse me, this violates the Constitution, everyone has to be on equal terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u122	Comment, please, from Mrs. Babak's committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, please note that this service law regulates the provision and consumption of services, i.e. everything that happens under the contract. At the same time, the relationship of coowners with their union of coowners is a statutory relationship. In no way does the contract of service provide one another with the relationship of the owners with the union created by these owners. Hence, this law cannot, even legally, extend to relations that arise between coowners and coowners and joint owners in providing for needs in accordance with article 22 of the Law on the Unification of Owners. So it's about self-sustainment, people gather, vote, choose some things, make contributions to the OSB and serve the house on their own. There is no relationship between the provider and the consumer of services, these are other legal categories that are venerable.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u124	Thank you. Colleagues, we have to move on to the definition in the session room of Mrs. Kugel's amendment, and the committee rejected it. I'm asking you to identify room number 48, Mrs. Kugel. [[12:56:04]] For-30 30 votes. She doesn't get the support she needs. The next one is 52, national deputy Sažko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u125	Sergey Sažko, 59th constituency, Donetskina. I ask you to make 52 amendments to the vote in part three of article 2 of the bill to replace the word "defined" with the word "defined." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u126	In fact, this is such a stylistic amendment to the requirement of the people’s deputy Sažko. I'm putting 52 amendments to the vote. Please identify yourself. [[12:56:53]] For-50 Let's move on. There's 67 more before. We're leaving. Let's go, Mrs. Kugel. 57 revisions, then 62, I remember everything, there is no sclerosis. 52nd. Please, Mrs. Kugel, the microphone. 57th. You have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u127	Thank you. This right here is about state policy in housing services. It's mostly counted except for one point. Notice, a colleague who is not included in the paragraph, that public policy does not touch the social protection of underprivileged citizens. I mean, we're saying that when we decide on utilities, on any of them. helping low-income citizens, 60 percent of whom are in Ukraine, we don't take that into account, it's not social protection for low-income citizens. Please support the seventh paragraph of this section of article 3 to ensure that public policy is responsible for ensuring the social protection of low-income Ukrainian citizens, whose policies today account for more than 60 percent of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u128	Please give a brief comment from the committee and we will vote on the 57th amendment, which is partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! This is simply to avoid duplicating the situation, with other laws, when it comes to social protection. Instead, there is article 11 in this law, which speaks specifically of the application of social norms and standards of housing services. But the law itself does not regulate the relationship of social protection of the population, it is the prerogative of other laws of Ukraine, so to rule out duplication, it has been removed. But the article on the application of social standards, subsidies, benefits and so forth is certainly a guarantee of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u130	Mrs. Kugel insists that the vote for this amendment now take place in the full amount of paragraph 7. Only the seventh, we vote, please, the hall is defined, and the committee rejected, he partially counted, without this trailer regarding paragraph 7. [[12:59:43]] For-36 36 votes, no need. Next, Oxana Siroid, the Honorable Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, continues to work on the amendments. And if they don't insist, Mrs. Oksana, on any of the others, 62th, Eutusek wants confirmation, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u131	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. At 62, it's the right thing to do. Article 4 reads: “Consolidation of public authorities and local self-government authorities in the area of housing and utilities”. I draw attention to the committee's approval. supported this amendment to set the marginal salary for subscribers for one utility subscriber. The proposal to put the amendment in place for confirmation, and please do not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u132	Please comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, this is entirely Article 4: "Responsibility of State Authorities and Local Self-Government." It's about authorizing Kabmin. I mean, the whole thing is about authority. Are you saying that we should cancel Kabmin's mandate right now, or is it just paragraph 6, or paragraph 6, paragraph 1, of Article 4? You see, this law applies to the powers of all authorities: both Kabminu and local self - government. Well, how are we supposed to vote about one point or something? Fix it. We're gonna throw out those powers now. You insisted that you include the authority in the bill. What's the vote now?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u134	Do you insist on confirming the entire amendment 62?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u135	That way we won't have Kabmin's authority then. The authority of the central authorities, the local self - government authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u136	Let's put it on confirmation. Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u137	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u138	The Committee requests support for amendment 62. Please vote. [[13:02:04]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 60, please. Excuse me, Ivan Krulko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u139	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. What is the 60th Amendment of the Fatherland faction? It's partially counted, but it didn't count the key. We propose to establish parliamentary control over the rights of consumers of residential services, to form a special authorized Supreme Council for the protection of the rights of consumers of residential services. Imagine how important it is for a person to have the opportunity to turn around and get protection from parliament when they have unjust housing services. Who does she have to talk to right now? To the NCREPR, to this Wolf, who protects the rights of oligarchs? You can't go back there, you can't protect your rights. People can't defend their rights in court. And that court, when Fatherland filed against cloud tariffs in court, has been blocked until now. That's why we think that parliamentary control should be, and I'm surprised why the profiling committee didn't take this amendment into account. Thank you. Please take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u140	Thank you. Please, committee, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, the creation of any body on the basis of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, probably as a minimum, requires changes to the Rules of the Supreme Council and many other things, i.e. the introduction into the Housing and Utilities Act of an entire body that should function fully, well, this is absolutely not the subject of this law. But the question was being considered on the committee, there were representatives of the distinguished faction, and we were talking about the preparation of the Energy Ombudsperson Act, you were even talking about utility services so that we actually have a person authorized in a state that would advocate energy users and so on. Well, it's definitely not because of a rule in an article of the Housing Services Act. The law can explain the entire competence of parliamentary control over consumer rights in the housing and utility sphere, well, it's an executive function, a venerable one. Well, why are you trying to do this??
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u142	Thank you. Please vote honourable deputies, Amendment 60. The committee does not support this. [[13:04:55]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Next up, 63. Derevyanko, a national MP, does not insist. 66. National MP Derevyanco Don't insist. 71. 76 revisions. Don't insist. 77. Don't insist. 78. Please. People's deputy Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, please note that we are now considering with you the section "Participants of Legal Relations in the Field of Homelessness." Our team is talking. How can we not consider members of a legal relationship what we offer in part? Add "State authorities and local self-government." Please tell us we don't see these meetings with you, where all the mayors and heads of administration are yelling, "Just don't turn the heat on." Today, half Kiev sits without heat, including the Supreme Council Committee. Who are they talking to? As far as I can see. And in the article about relationships. The legal relations that they enter there as participants, we have removed them. I think that's wrong, and we have to take the lead and add, "State authorities and local self-government." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u144	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u145	These participants -- they don't have any. They, if they are consumers, extend to them all the positions of this law as consumers. But these are the organs that do, usually, regulate the relationships that are defined in this law. But they're not involved in the provision and consumption of public services, so.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u146	Thank you. 78th Amendment. Are you insisting? Please vote. 78th Amendment. [[13:07:35]] For-34 Amendment number 80. Don't insist. 86th. Don't insist. 88th. Don't insist. 90th Amendment. Don't insist. 93rd. Don't insist. 94th. Don't insist. 95th. Don't insist. 97th. Please, National Deputy Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u147	Thank you. I want to say that we generally think that this bill is simply not professional and unvoting. I can tell you that it has a terrible amount of stalemate. The text uses the word "legislative" 40 times. And 30 normative acts that still have to be adopted to get this piece of legislation to work. Now, I'm paying attention, article five, that the consumer has the right, that is, we are with you, to receive timely and adequate housing and utility services according to the legislation and terms of the contracts. Now, all of us consumers, please tell me, who can prove today that they're giving gas inefficient, that they're putting a little pressure on you, that you're using it more, that the batteries are cold? Invite someone and show them that you have it so the commission can come. Today this edition was not in the first reading, it is an amendment to Alona.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u148	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, the residential sector is a multisectoral complex, and so we could not refer to the laws of Ukraine differently than "legislature," because this is about laws, and drinking water, and drinking water, and heat supply, and the natural gas market, and the electricity market, and waste, and many other things. Hence, no one is making a copy of every norm of another law in one of these laws. So, of course, there's a reference to legislation here. And language goes to the law mostly, not just to the law. More than that, when. It's about quality. Well, that's weird. Here the whole chapter is about quality. And what's more, all relationships are governed by standard contracts between service providers and consumers. And the typical contracts are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So to talk about what we're giving up is as incomprehensible as the consumer we're throwing ourselves, it's total nonsense. Because of the shapes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u150	Thank you. Please confirm. Please vote. Amendment number 97, committee supports, for confirmation. [[13:11:02]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Amendment 98. Don't insist. Amendment number 99. Don't insist. Number 103. Don't insist. 104. Don't insist. 105. Don't insist. 106. Don't insist. 107. Don't insist. 110. Don't insist. 111. Don't insist. 111th. Please, Deputy Martovitchki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u151	Thank you. Arthur Martovicki, 36 constituency, Opposition Block. In fact, it's a very important bill for consumers as for citizens. But it is a pity that his discussion is lacking, in my view, in the national MPs. But as for the amendment. In accordance with article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of the Realization of Property in a Multi-Apartment House, I propose paragraph 7 of Part I of article 5 of the bill to be reprinted: "To receive from the public service providers, if their guilt is available, compensation in size determined by the public service contracts, court decisions or legislation for exceeding the legal time limits for the conduct of emergency-renewal work, or to receive such compensation from other guilty persons." Thank you. Please put on maintenance.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u152	Please determine by vote, Amendment 111. The committee does not support this. [[13:12:54]] For-34 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 112. Don't insist. 124. Don't insist. Tell me again. 112th? I called 911. Please, National Deputy Sažko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u153	I ask you not to vote. The provider of the legislative services, technically, in terms of the balance sheeting, has nothing to do with the functioning of the interior networks, for which the housekeeper is currently responsible, in the future, for the purpose of the bill, the owner of the building chosen by the co-owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u154	Thank you. Please determine by vote, Amendment 112. The committee does not support this. [[13:14:17]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Please, 114 amendment, National Deputy Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u155	Dear voters, respectable people of Ukraine! Unfortunately, there is now a bill that makes extra payments with you, and you and I do not exist as consumers here. See how you have taken away the position that you all complain to the national MPs, checking the number, the quality of housing services. What should be in the law? Clear procedure and my rights to consumers. It is written that is in the legislative order. All of it. You even removed from the first reading that this order should at least develop the Cabinet of Ministers. You even removed it by simply leaving paragraph 8 in the legislative order. Besides, you didn't now support Sažko's edit, which said that if you had a pipe broken down and you didn't have any heat, that monopolist supplier should pay it back and restore it. And there's no such thing. And so, by all rights, we've got it all written down, but there's no rights. There are rights to a monopolist and to a ruler.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u156	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, I must comment on this. Colleagues, there are direct rules in this law regarding the order in which the quality of services given to consumers is checked. Moreover, an unprecedented rule is introduced regarding the possibility of taking samples of hot water, cold water, and gas to check their quality. Therefore, we did not write that Kabmin, Kabdin, makes the decrees a recalculation for the unkindly services rendered. But the very quality of it, first of all, is set apart by sectoral laws -- once. Second, it's written here the characteristics of how this is done, the direct standards of quality testing. That's why we said, it's not just the Kabmin doing it, it's the law doing it, and this law is the Housing Services Act. And it's written in what way and how things are done that are not really there today. No man can take gas samples, we're talking about how it's going to be done, and in the law it's written both in hot water and in cold water, things that never existed in Ukraine before, but now they're being implemented by the draft of this law. Therefore, respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u158	Thank you. Please determine how to vote. Amendment No. 114 for confirmation. The committee supports. [[13:17:10]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 124. Don't insist. Number 130. Don't insist. Number 131. National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u159	129. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u160	129th National Deputy Kugel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u161	Once again, I want to take advantage of the opportunity to say that unfortunately, those who obey the law have not read it. But there are national MPs here who may not be doing that, but we're talking to people. I now have protocols for ten areas of the Dnipropetrov region, where we ourselves have measured how many hours the water boils down to 1 liter to show that a monopoly in the morning and in the evening is doing a little bit of gas pressure. But then, button, listen, he has the right to check it and make a decision. Who do you think you are under the law? The same monopolies. But take your samples, measure as much as you can, but in your bill, apart from the monopolist, you can't make a decision and punish anyone. So we threw the hammer into the river, and so on the whole bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u162	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u163	Unfortunately, a distinguished national MP, your amendment will simply be lost because you have made this thesis completely inappropriate to your amendment. In your direction, there was a perfectly normal reference to prices and tariffs approved in the established legislation. Now, now that your revision has been partially accounted for, you're just going to dump it, and that's not going to be the norm. I mean, you. Oh, that's you for confirmation. All of it. Then, my fellow Members, I think there are other deputies in this room who have read the bill and analyzed every position that applies, particularly the quality of service. Because each of us is also a consumer, and it would be very sad to think that people don't think about the consumer that they are, at least if we don't think about all of Ukraine, Alexander Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u164	Thank you. Please determine how to vote. Correction number.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u165	No, you didn't put it to the vote. She didn't vote 129.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u166	You don't have to. Okay. 126th. Please, National Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u167	People's Deputy Capplin. Please place 126 confirmations. In general, I would like to make a statement on this bill that Socparty and other structures, such as trade unions, are concerned about the availability of tariff rules in their respective countries. It's about foam in the relevant bill. And separately, taking this opportunity, I would like to draw the attention of the public, the President of the country, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to this morning's speech by the distinguished National Deputy of Chickens, who has claimed to suspect Mr. Fishing's activities by the People's Party of the People's Party, we have no right to question the court's integrity. But I think we should now ask the question of putting an end to his powers as the head of the relevant banking committee until we get the appropriate decisions of the law enforcement authorities and the court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u168	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, it's a pity that now, because of the political slogans, we are losing normal rights that are essentially taken into account by the committee and submitted by the people's deputies. As far as trade unions are concerned, the committee has an official letter from the trade unions because the trade unions participated actively in the working group after the bill was drafted. And now you're putting and destroying an amendment that's normal, that's clarifying the position of the bill, and it's submitted by the national MP Ichchenk, and you're just "falling" it because of your political slogans. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u170	Thank you. Unfortunately, I have to put it to a vote. Amendment 126 to confirm. The committee. Don't you insist? Okay. The committee has convinced us not to insist. 131st. People's deputy Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u171	Our readjustment with John Krulko touches someone who can be allowed into his home. I think that a lot of the national MPs were approached personally by the voters, by the villagers, that if they came to work, and they had a gas cut off, because it's just because the employees of the Dneprogaza would go into their homes and shut down, and it said, "there was a leak." I asked you to complete this rule, which is 131 revisions that can go into the yard, into the house, if there's an agreement to provide housing services. I can tell you, right now I got a call from a nikopol voter. She's a working invalid. They told her they wanted to check the counters, they were six months ago. She says Saturday, Sunday I work. They say if it's not Sunday, we'll take it off in your absence. That's how you write this bill. Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u172	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Please put to the vote, to decide with amendment 131, the committee did not support it. Thank you. [[13:23:16]] For-36 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 134. Don't insist. 136. Don't insist. 138th. Don't insist. 141. Don't insist. 142. Don't insist. 144. National MP Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, in this direction 144, I ask you to delete paragraph 10 from the law, which reads: "In the event that payments for residential services are not made in a timely manner, they pay the penalty in terms of the size of the law or agreements for the provision of housing services." This is a trap, you see, they're mostly, look at the government's debts, they're not taking themselves, they're bringing you bills to write down these debts, and for the citizens who are now 60 percent outside of poverty, you're voting to impose a penny that survives and they can't pay even the amount that the grant doesn't cover. I ask you to remove this paragraph 10 from the bill and take away the foam, and give you the right to impose this penny on monopolies.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u174	Thank you. Please determine how to vote. Amendment No. 141, the committee does not support it, I ask you to vote. [[13:25:03]] For-37 The decision is not made. Amendment No. 145. Don't insist. 146. Don't insist. 147. Don't insist. 154. Don't insist. 156. Don't insist. 158, 159, 163. Don't insist. 169. Don't insist. 172. Don't insist. 173. Don't insist. 176. Don't insist. 177. Don't insist. 177. Please, National Deputy Kudlainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u175	Amendment 177 refers to the obligation of the public service provider to provide information on services, namely its prices and tariffs, the total cost of monthly payment, the structure of the tariff price, the consumption standards and the order in which the service is provided, as well as its consumer properties and other information provided for in the legislation. In my opinion, this list is complete, and it is therefore appropriate to delete the words "other information." Please put to the vote, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u176	Thank you. Please decide how to vote. Please vote. [[13:26:46]] For-38 The decision is not made. 178. Don't insist. 179. Don't insist. 180. Don't insist. 184. Please, Deputy Martovitchki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u177	Thank you. Arthur Martovicki, 36 constituency, Opposition Block. I propose that we establish rules on the rights and obligations of the ruler and the executor in the various articles of the bill. These individuals perform a variety of absolute consumer functions and may not have an appropriate contractual relationship, resulting in a number of disputes, such as the consumer’s demand to comply with the requirements and regulations for the operation of residential and innuendo areas. So I propose 184 amendments, paragraph 7 of part two of the Bill 6 after the words "pay consumer compensation" to be supplemented by the words "if there is guilt." Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u178	Thank you. If I understand correctly, your suggestion is to accept an amendment that is rejected. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Committee against, please vote. And, colleagues, while the vote is coming, I have a request. Please vote. [[13:28:20]] For-42 The decision is not made. The request is, we have 500 rights, and if we don't go through a lot of them today, we're just going to destroy our work day tomorrow. And we have extremely important bills, including budget changes. I have a big request, I can't ask anything else like asking the right-wing authors not to insist on everyone. I have a big request that we get the most out of here. I have a request, and I hope that the constructive deputies have heard my request. So let's move on. You said you wouldn't insist. 190. Lechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u179	Lewchenko, Freedom 223 District, Kiev City. I propose that part two of article 6 of section I of the bill should be supplemented by a point in which to address the question of the accountability of the public service administrator, because the bill does not provide for a reporting order on the funds used by the manager, the public service provider. We already see situations very similar when absolutely. There's no report, people don't know, actually, where the money is spent. And so I'm going to add 10 to this part, which is going to sound like this: "every six months or at the first requirement to report to consumers about the execution of the cost of the asset and to pay for the consumer's consent the cost of the cost of the current six months. This is to increase the manager’s transparency and accountability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u180	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 190, Lechchenka. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[13:30:11]] For-30 The decision is not made. Please, Kugel, 189th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u181	Dear listeners, because I understand, besides you, no one is interested today in what we're going to pay, we're proposing, with our administration and John Krulko, that the money that we're already being taken into four more to maintain the building and the instigator territories and that we pay the manager, we should have with you each year to hear their report and agree on the next year the cost of maintaining our own instigator territory and our own stewards managing our home. It's not a drill. Not accepted, just to inform about the intent to change prices, it's that we're simply with you, once again confirmed, we don't exist as consumers here in this bill. So they don't need to be authorized to protect us, we don't have the right to agree to a manager's salary, we can't take it off in a month if we find it to be a thief or a lazy person. Besides, you and I will be with you from this moment on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u182	Thank you. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, this law on the release from slavery of those whom the value of our work today imposes upon us. It's the first time, in the end, we're going to give people the right to choose the manager on our own, to agree with him in the general meeting on the cost of keeping houses, building, getting reports from him, to have access to his accounting in this house, of course, not all of it, but to the income and expenditure and to the actual amount of services in this house. Yeah, where is he now? What are you talking about? It's a huge breakthrough in reform to man, to man, to consumer. We hire a manager, we pay him, we agree with him, and no measure, and no regions, and the presidents don't take part here -- people of a particular house with a specific manager. Dear colleagues, this is a complete deception of the whole idea of reform when the consumer as owner manages his property, hires who.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Olena. I'll make an offer. So your suggestion is that 189 amendments should be accepted as a whole. All right. So who's backing Kugel's proposal for 189th review in general, because the committee counted in part, please vote. Please. Whoever supports Kugel's proposal, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u185	The edit is still partially accounted for. It's in the other chapters!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u186	[[13:33:07]] For-45 The decision is not made. 197th. Tree tree.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u187	Thank you. Yuri Derevyanko, the Movement of New Forces. ” I'm requesting 197th amendment for confirmation. This amendment proposes the introduction of customer service fees, and for what exactly? In order to further compensate for the additional costs associated with the conclusion of contracts, further damages to the administration of these contracts, additional compensation to the subscriber’s account, which will be maintained and so on. So these are so-called subscribers. Not subscribers, but in this case customer service and customer service fees will be much further enhanced by utilities. So I'm asking you to put this 197 on confirmation and 198 also. But this is the next step, so I'd like to start with 197. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u188	I'm going to put both of them in sequence, individually. I'm betting on confirmation of the 197. The committee supports it. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:34:22]] For-63 The decision is not made. And I'm betting on confirmation of the 198th amendment. The committee supports it. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:34:43]] For-66 The decision is not made. 202th, 205th. The cone, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, perhaps those who work as entrepreneurs, may have complained to you, MPs, that, for example, all the skyscrapers, Mr. Ahmedov himself, do not sign a contract unless you pay electricity in advance. So here, Your Honor, the authors of this bill have put us in, look at page 68, which the consumer can choose for himself, but it goes on to say, "unless it's accepted by another contract." And these two amendments say that we can't put, even in a contract, the terms that the consumer, you and I, Ukrainian citizens, pay the monopolies in advance for the services we get. I would like to support 202 and 205 so that we are not bound by that little letter in the contract that says "obligability of advance payments."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u190	Thank you. 202th supported by the committee. I'll vote 205. So whoever supports the 205th amendment, please vote. It's a committee against it. Vote. [[13:36:18]] For-34 The decision is not made. Next. 214th. Don't insist. 223rd. Don't insist. 227th. Don't insist. 231st. Don't insist. 235. Don't insist. 227th. Please, Kugel, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u191	On page 73, I'd like to ask you to look at it, and it says here how the price for managing a large apartment house is shaped. This is when you invite him instead of forming an administration, as you are then offered in the final positions. It says here that it is determined at the price level set by the competition commission to the winner of the competition. We're not citizens with you. I suggest in our right hand with John Krulko that we write: "But in a certain order agreed with the consumer." Because, I'm sorry, the head of the board of directors at your house is going to set up 50 grand for the administrators, and we're going to take them down and pay for their services. I'm asking you to support the 227 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u192	Very short, Olena Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, there is no situation in which people will be thoughtlessly governed. If even a local self-governance agency goes to the competition to choose the manager, it's in the Final Positions, to thank the Impact faction at the BPP, we've changed that even local self-governance authorities go to the competition only according to the protocol of the general assembly. And more than that, we have a rule in another law where even if elected after a competition, under the general congregation protocol, people can break the treaty within two months prematurely if they are chosen by a local government body. So, honourable colleagues, that's all, well, what's now said is just to blow up the normal movement for reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u194	Thank you. I'll bet you an amendment to the vote of 227 people's deputies, Kugel. The committee turned it down. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:38:43]] For-25 The decision is not taken. 235. Don't insist. 245th. Don't insist. 247th. Don't insist. 249. Don't insist. 252. Don't insist. 257th. 251. Turn on the microphone. I can't see, 251, yes, Martovici, there is. Declined. Please turn on the microphone for Martovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u195	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Arthur Martovicki, 36th constituency. I, my dear colleagues, would like to remind you that social standards are used in the calculation of benefits and subsidies. So I propose 251 amendments to the first part of article 9 of the bill after the words "when granted" to supplement the words "indulgence." Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u196	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 251. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:40:04]] For-29 259. Don't insist. 261. Don't insist. 264th. Don't insist. 265th. Don't insist. 269th. Don't insist. 265th. 60 or 75? 65th, Martovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u197	Thank you. Arthur Martovicki, 36th constituency. Dear colleagues, I propose part five of article 10 of the bill as a new edition. That is, a consumer, a natural person who is not the subject of farming, is provided with utility services in accordance with a contract for the provision of utility services made on the basis of a standard contract, which is a contract for the accession of another consumer, except as set out in paragraph 1 of this Part, the utility services are provided in accordance with a contract for the provision of utility services based on a standard contract. Contracts and agreements of association are made in writing or in other forms by consent of the parties, such as electronic communications. To the conclusion of the contract of association, the consumer, as set out in paragraph 1 of this Part, is obliged to pay the public service provider, in fact the services provided under the tariffs established by the body. Please put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u198	Thank you. I put to the vote Amendment 265 of Martovitch, and the committee rejected it. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:41:56]] For-31 The decision is not taken. 262. Or 72? It's a hat. 62, Suzko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u199	Sergey Sažko, 59th constituency, Donetskina. In part three of article 10 of the bill, the word "unless otherwise provided for by law" should be replaced by the words "on condition that a similar consumer meets all the requirements of this law and other legal provisions in the field of housing and utility services." In this regard, the performer has no right to refuse a consumer who has the right to receive such services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u200	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 262. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:43:03]] For-33 The decision is not taken. 299th. Please, Kugel. 299th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, in the right direction of 299 with John Krulko, we offer to remove the words "and consumers pay the right utilities for customer service." Do you remember the scandal when Mr. Wolfe wanted to put the subscription fee on the gas? Then the president and everything was shouted -- it couldn't be -- and they shut up. Now, through this bill, they will include a subscription fee in every utility we receive. How do they explain why they rejected us? It contradicts the concept of a project. 100 percent contradicts your concept, the concept where there is no consumer, where utilities and monopolies will go. Hello! This is the bill you're adopting in this room today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u202	I bet the vote on Amendment 299. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:44:27]] For-26 The decision is not taken. 292th. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u203	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! I'm asking you to make two amendments to 292 and the next 293. So these two amendments regulate, they don't just introduce subscribers and customer services, they also implement collective contracts. And actually, these collective agreements are the main tool that's very convenient for a monopoly, so that everyone pays and there's no individual contracts, and there's a maximum number of collective contracts that even consumers of the community services that pay, they practically pay, including for those who don't pay, or they don't actually get community services. So please put 292 and 293 on confirmation, two revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u204	Thank you. I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment 292. The committee supports it. And please vote, please support. This is the position of the committee. Vote. [[13:45:41]] Z-62 62. The decision is not made. And so is Amendment 293. The committee's asking for confirmation. Please support, please vote 293. [[13:46:01]] For-63 The decision is not made. 311. Don't insist. 312. Don't insist. 313. 312. Excuse me, 312. Martovitch. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u205	Thank you. Arthur Martovicki, 36th constituency, Pavlovgradščina Honorary colleagues, on the basis of the standards of the article under consideration, are actually governed by a collective consumer, since he makes a contract with the executioner at the commission of the committee, the commissioner does the deed on behalf of himself but at the expense of the committee. This situation is fully in line with the rules of article 619 of the Civil Code, the "subsidiary responsibility", the "commission agreement" of the Ukrainian Civil Code. So I propose Amendment 312: paragraph 1 of the second part of article 13 of the bill after the words "and such a steward" should be supplemented by the words "as a collective consumer". Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u206	Thank you. I bet on the vote of Amendment 312. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:47:17]] For-36 36. The decision is not made. 310. Krulko Ivan. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u207	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. What's in Article 13? Article 13 stipulates that "consumers pay the corresponding municipal service providers a fee for customer services" is "persons of change and termination of public service contracts". We're stressing once again as Fatherland, and this is the amendment that we have with Mrs. Alexander Kugel, we firmly oppose that the subscription fee in the form of the so-called "client service fee" was mentioned in this law. So we're proposing this paragraph, which concerns the introduction of customer service fees for consumers, the removal, enough to impose additional burdens on Ukrainian citizens who cannot pay these utilities. And this law provides for additional municipal services in the form of, among other things, customer services, which is absolutely absurd and must be removed from this law. Please support our amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u208	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote for Amendment 310, Bullet. Whoever supports the amendment, please vote, the committee rejected it. [[13:48:45.]] For-32 The decision is not made. It's 311. Lechenko. Then there's 327th. 311. Lechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u209	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. 311 the amendment refers to the same, this unfortunate customer service fee that is proposed to be drafted in this bill, this thing is totally unacceptable, and we have Ukrainians almost ending up with these cloudy tariffs. All the decisions that this Supreme Council has made in the context of housing services and housing and utilities are only making the situation worse, not improving the situation. These laudable reforms about going to governors, about the so-called "get out of slavery" and so forth, ended only with housing and utilities, the fund itself, the fund that was in municipal property, which is the vast majority of the housing fund, falling apart at a higher rate than before. And it's only now that the local authorities wash their hands and say, "We're not doing anything here," even though they're actually "what" by law, because they're balanceholders. And now they're proposing to continue with this story, to add another customer service fee, which in fact won't reduce the other tariff in any way, because, like gas associations, that tariff will still be the same, just the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u210	Very short, Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, if you'll excuse me, I'll then, when we've gone through all these adjustments, I'll explain in very, very detail this idea with subscriber service for one type of contractual relationship, under individual contracts. There are three other types of relationships, but that's what I'm going to explain a little bit later on just once so that it doesn't take time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u212	That's wise. And I'm putting to the vote amendment 311, the committee rejected it, please vote. [[13:50:50]] For-30 The decision is not made. 327. The cone, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u213	Dear voters, you've wanted so many young politicians. Well, we now have a report that tells you the law, but they said that after the law they'll give you an explanation. So you and I understand that the law has no direct action. The third time I'm focusing on the consumer's most important question, the quality of services, is the gas that's being used twice as much because it's being given either diluted or low pressure, it's a heat that's not there today. Mrs. Babak has already said twice that it is written in the law. See what is written, the quality assurance obligation rests with the manager of the apartment building. What are you gonna take with him? She'll tell you, let's drown the house, hand over the money, and you say "no money." What did you want? Everyone check that you have a little gas pressure. Whom should the steward go to? To the monopolist. He's the only one who has the right to check it out and everyone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u214	You won't, will you? It's a deal, Mrs. Alexander. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u215	I give you my word. The question arises. I propose that we have a direct act of law, and that's why we've issued an ombudsman from the Supreme Council, we should be able to control it. We've got a single wolf walking, separate Dnepropetrovsk crying from the "obgas" and the "blanket." And so every region is its monopolies who make fun of people, and we as deputies with you then don't know how to settle this issue. The law must be direct action.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u216	Thank you. Let's move on to the next amendment. 362 revisions. Don't insist. 375th. Don't insist. 337. 337th, one second I'm going to find her on the list, yes, there's Martovick, turn on the microphone, 337th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u217	Thank you. Arthur Martovicki, 36th constituency, Pavlovgradščina Dear colleagues, the draft law stipulates that the point of commercial accounting of utilities is other than the service of handling household waste. There's a set of measuring techniques for the individual business node, and in the absence of such a node, it's engineering. By my amendment, I propose the first and second parts, article 15 of the bill to replace them with places. Thank you, please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u218	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of amendment 337, the committee rejected it. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:54:11]] For-26 The decision is not made. 26. 378th. Don't insist. 379th. Don't insist. Three hundred. Three hundred? Please turn on the microphone, colleagues, I'm reporting that I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. So, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u219	This is a very important question that citizens are addressing to you, national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u220	Number number, tell me, ma'am.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u221	339. All of your voters are returning because, unfortunately, right now, monopolies are getting money for investment programs, and they don't want to install individual individual counters, but they're setting them up at home, and that's why we're saying in article 15 "commercial utility billing," we're adding, "the point of commercial utility accounting other than waste, in the cases established by law, can be a set of means of measuring the individual node of the commercial clothing that is in the consumer." So please put a counter on every consumer, not one on the house, and then write down whatever you want to do with the investment programs that you've been charging your pockets for 10 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u222	339 amendment. Anyone who supports it, please vote. The committee turned it down. Please. [[13:55:52]] For-27 The decision is not taken. 385th. Don't insist. 388th. Don't insist. 402. Don't insist. 411. Don't insist. 422nd. Don't insist. 427. Don't insist. 440. Don't insist. 444th. Don't insist. 451. Don't insist. Please, what's the number? Martovitch or someone to give? I didn't get my glasses, I can't see. Martovitch, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u223	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u224	Turn on the microphone, Martovicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u225	Thank you. Arthur Martovicki, 36th constituency, Pavlovgradščina I propose that rules should be laid down regarding the rights and duties of the administrator and the executive in the various articles of the bill. Hence, the individuals in question perform a variety of functions that consumers there may not have the right contractual relationship, resulting in a number of disputes over the subject, such as which of these persons requires the consumer to comply with the conditions and regulations for the operation of living quarters and the construction of areas. So I propose that the first part of the second part of article 24 be supplemented by the words: "and in the absence of the fault of the public service provider to withdraw from the person responsible the sum that has been recalculated or paid to the consumer of the instability, the fine, the foam in the established law of order." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u226	Thank you. What's the readout? Would you please tell me the number of the amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u227	450.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u228	450 revisions, Martovitchki. I'll bet you a vote. Anyone who supports it, please vote. The committee turned it down. [[13:57:57]] For-35 The decision is not taken. So 379th, Kugel. 379th, Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to turn to the 379 revisions that Ivan Krulko and I have made, which we're talking about, well, you haven't chosen a manager, I've sent you the administration. And we've asked that if this person is disorderly, insolent, he doesn't run the house that you've been counting on to have the right to terminate the contract for the term, this contract with this controlling person or company. They rejected the bill and wrote: “The contract is to be terminated in a timely manner according to a court’s decision. You understand, we're going to plant mud with you and we're going to be slaves to this dude who's in power today, who's only going to raise money from us.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u230	So I'm voting on Amendment 379. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[13:59:11]] For-24 The decision is not made. Colleagues, I've called every correction. Mrs. Alexander, just be careful. I called all the amendments, and I have to call them again. 385th. 449th. Cooge. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u231	In the second reading, there was a bill that the authors predicted that foam in case of non-time pay could be 0.1 percent per day. They went from one in the first reading to the other in 0.1. But then, after talking to the monopolies, they decided to just put that rule away and write it in accordance with every contract that we're going to sign with the monopolies. I feel that we cannot be deleted, and we need to have an article written down. This is going to be 0.01. This depends on the commission’s consideration, but it is not easy to put a monopolistic decision on it. I'm asking you to support 449 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u232	Please, Olena Babak, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, the law regulates the issue of pennies, so we did not apply any other legislation. So clearly, the law says, from what point in time does the foam count? But I ask everyone to note that the committee's decision was to not include the foam in the housing sector until 1 January 2019. Besides, there are other proposals now that might be considered, and we're going to go back to that, write a rule that there's no foam for not paying the salary. But everyone just realizes that it's a crime for the employer, he's just not going to give that statement. Thus, in principle, the law clearly describes how this is done. No monopolies can do anything on their own, norm goes straight legislative. I also want to say briefly about the contracts, about their permanent termination. Your Honor, management contracts, management contracts. Term.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u234	Please, one more minute, because Helen didn't comment on the last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u235	I just didn't comment, yeah. Contracts for management. They're only due for one year. For one year. It can be broken up in time under the Law on the Characteristics of Property in Multiple Houses when the local government has held a competition, and you have not been set up as consumers. I mean, on your behalf, after you asked to hold this competition, you were not set up, you have two months to warn the party and break it. This is one time you can do it. Next, if you haven't done that, you've been working with this manager for a year, and if you're not good enough, you're making complaints, they're normal relationships. If you want to change the manager, you just change it with your general congregations and prove that the terms of the contract have been inadequately fulfilled and you change the manager, you choose it yourself. So it's only about competitions when people say we can't choose the manager ourselves and we ask the local government to do it. As a matter of fact. Ladies and gentlemen, the readjustment was absolutely strange. It is stated in the law that the responsibility for the maintenance and assurance of the quality provided for by the contract is on the part of the service provider and the manager. When something was explained here, I don't really know what else to write, what the performer is responsible for the quality, the manager is responsible for the quality. What else is there to write?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u236	Thank you. Colleagues, so I'm voting for amendment 449, National Deputy Kugel. Whoever supports it, please vote. The committee turned it down. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:03:34]] For-22. The decision is not made. 473 axles, Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u237	Please point out to the manager what you give us in a minute, and three minutes goes by the law. I mean, I'll tell you what's written on the fence, too. And from what is written in the law, which should be of high quality and not written as a liability, nothing is written. So at 473, we're saying what we're demanding, how we're shaping consumer claims. And my amendment was that, in the case of a systematic, more than twice-time, failure to provide full public services, the performer was obliged to pay the consumer a double - dollar penny of unsupplied or unsupplied services. We don't accept this. I mean, if we didn't pay up, we'd have to pay up the foam, and if they don't pay up, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u238	Thank you. Before giving her the opportunity to respond, she will be able to use that time in her speech. That's why I'm acting under the Rules and I'm asking Helen Babak to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u239	Dear colleagues, of course, the law is responsible for non-compliance with contractual obligations as a fundamental condition of any contract, both by the consumer and by the contractor. And we're writing here that if the performer provides services in an inappropriate way, whether or not in full measure, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine makes a decision on costing. In addition, for improper compliance with management contracts, the provision of utilities is provided for a system of fines. And it's written about. We're talking about getting fines for not being properly executed. This was discussed in the preceding articles. Hence, respectable colleagues, indeed, can say that let three or two pay five times as much. But, Your Honor, who's gonna pay for this, after all? For all these fines and pennies? Those who have paid and their pockets will pay a fine of five times that. Thus, the system of fines is provided for in the bill. Obligations under the terms of the treaty are foreseen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u240	So we're going to the vote. If you don't mind, what's your deal? Colleagues, stop, we're about to be identified. So 473, Kugel. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[2:06:52]] For-19 The decision is not taken. I don't really hear it, but I think it's Martovitch, right? Please turn on the microphone, Martovicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u241	Thank you. Deputy Martovicki, 36 constituency, Pavlovgradščina This applies to 464 revisions. I suggest that if the public service provider or the manager of the multi-room house management service has arrived at the consumer's call late after the two days since the receipt of a few full days of delay, the cost of the service is not to be paid. I ask the distinguished national MP, Elena Babak, to comment on why the committee rejected and ignored my amendment. Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u242	Please, Olena Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u243	The situation is that we generally have rules for the provision of services, in which case they are carried out and during which period of failure to provide services is reduced or not counted at all. That's why I started telling you that there's a Cabinet of Ministers decision, by the way, it still works today, No. 151, where it's about counting for inadequacy or not being fully serviced. So if there's a break in the service that you're talking about, and there's not going to be a few days, then there's going to be a recalculation, and in general after a certain number of hours, there's not going to be an appointment. This is in both the water supply and the heat supply. There's a degree going: 3 hours, 5 hours and so on, and so on. So there's a certain scale of time when the problem is not physically solved, and then there's a corresponding enumeration of services. So we have this as an order for us to count the value of services as untrustworthy or untrustworthy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u244	But you insist on voting, right? And that's why I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 464 people's MP Martovitchki. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. The committee turned her down. [[14:09:20]] For 20 The decision is not taken. I hear you, Mrs. Alexander. I can hear you. But if I'm not mistaken, there's an amendment to that, except I don't know their numbers. Can you tell from the voice? 75th. Oh, 65th. 65th. Yeah, we're kind of coming back. It's a hat. Saska, 65th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u245	Sažko, 559 constituency. My amendment coincides with the amendment of Martovitchki. I also insist that it be voted for. Please consider this correction as part of the customer's account for ignoring the user's calls for more than two days. Accordingly, if we accept this, we increase the level of customer service and ensure proper and timely response of managers to calls, complaints and applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u246	Thank you. I'm voting on amendment 465. Ms. Helen has already commented on the position of the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[14:10:38]] For-23 The decision is not taken. And the next one is: Galchenko or Melnik? Number? 66th. All right, Galchenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u247	Andrew Galchenko, 32 constituency, the city of Curve Rig. I propose to put to the vote my amendment. And I want article 25, paragraph 5, to be edited as follows: "The public service provider or the manager (for the services of managing the apartment building) is obliged to arrive at the consumer's call in the time specified in the service contract, but not later than three working days after receiving the consumer's message. If the public service provider or the manager (for a multi-room service) has arrived at the consumer's call late, the cost of the service is not payable during the delay." Please put my amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u248	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote 466 amendments, national deputy Galchenka. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:12:09]] For-26 The decision is not made. And the last amendment we're going to see today is 474. I ask you, Ivan Krulko, to finish on the positive note of our discussion today. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u249	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, look at the exact article we are proposing with Mrs. Alexander Kugel to complete this bill. Bringing information to consumers about residential services. What does that mean? That the performer is obliged to bring to the consumer known information on the list of services, the structure of tariff prices, the change in such tariff prices and the reasons for their need, and the quality of services. And, more than that, we demand that proposals by natural monopolies regarding price changes, and they go only to the top, not to the bottom, be discussed in public at the meeting of the NCRECR. This is the right article. And we're asking the hall to support this. Because people need to know what they pay for, how they pay them, and why they should pay such tariffs. Let's make this process absolutely transparent. Then we can say that man will clearly understand exactly what kind of tariff he pays. There's no such thing today. So we suggest that the national MPs support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u250	Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u251	The committee was absolutely correct, and of course the committee supported it, but in another article, in article 8, paragraph 3, part two. So bringing information to the consumer is absolutely part of this law, but with regard to the regulation of the NCRECR, it's regulated by a separate law, and that's why it wasn't duplicated here. Moreover, you remember that we had already passed a law with you, and it seemed that the president had been given information about prices, price changes, and so on, in utilities. And that's why we have a whole law on information.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-08-m0.u252	Thank you. Do you insist on voting, Mr. Ivan? He insists on voting. Then I put to the vote Amendment 474. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[14:14:37]] For-19 19. The decision is not made. We need to get the megaphones in place so everyone can hear it in the hall. Colleagues, we don't have time to look at the amendments anymore. The point is, there's no time, you know? In one minute, we no longer have the right to work, so we've completed today's review of 474 amendments, tomorrow, right after the factions, we'll continue the discussion, and hopefully, about 11, we'll be able to vote. Yeah, well, then there'll be no speeches, we'll continue our work immediately, with the extension of the right. I would like to thank the representative of the committee and all the right-holders for their active and productive work, and I call tomorrow at 10 a.m. for the timely arrival of both right-wing authors and a committee representative so that we can conclude the discussion on this bill. I also want to read the announcement that came to the fore. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and according to the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary group "Party of Rebirth" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call of 7 November 2017, I report a change in its management composition. After the appointment of the head of the deputy group and the deputy head of the National Deputies, according to Bondar Viktor Vasilovich and Iljuk Artem Alexandrovich, the co-chairs of the MP's "Rebirth Party" group in the Supreme Council of the Eighth Assembly elected the national deputies of Ukraine, Hmotinnik Vitali Juryovich and Bondar Viktor Vasilovich. Welcome to our co-heads, our colleagues. Colleagues, I have to close this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, today's committee, I know very important committees and I wish you fruitful, systematic and active work. And tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm waiting for everyone in the hall to continue our difficult but necessary work for the country. Thank you. Nice work on the committees.
