ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take your jobs. Time's up. And I'm asking you to prepare for the registration, for the evening session. Colleagues, as long as the MPs come in, I want to inform you. On Tuesday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to consider a bill on alimony payments on Thursday. A committee commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered it. And we'll be able to look at it after lunch. But the next one will be as it is in the daytime. But now it's going to be that project that's going to be the next one in the day-to-day, 2514a. And I'm going to suggest that we look at it in a simplified way. Because we have some very important bills ahead of us, colleagues. This is also the regulation of urban activity, which is also the law on local self - government. These are two ratifications that we couldn't look at on Wednesday. So I'm going to urge everyone, colleagues, to vote and support the short-reading procedure. So I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for registration and voting. Are you ready for your registration? Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the evening session. Please register. [[16:06:28]] A total of 351 national deputies, colleagues, were registered. And we move on to the next issue of the agenda, this is a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (for land requirements within the industrial park). And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs right now. I will put to the vote the motion to consider it in a simplified manner. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote and support my proposal, it's constructive and progressive. I would like to stress that we have a city activity ahead of us, we have a law on local self-government and two ratifications that we didn't adopt on Wednesday. And we have to organize the work so that at the evening session all these bills will be considered and wanted to be followed by a positive decision. So, are you ready to vote? I am voting on a motion to review the simplified procedure for the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (No. 2514a). Please vote and please support. Colleagues, vote carefully. Take part in the vote. Please support the reduced procedure, please. Please be supportive. [[16:08:06]] For a hundred and We didn't make it. Please come into the hall. My colleagues, I want to explain to you that all the time at the beginning of the session I explain the logic of the meeting so that we can all understand the responsibility for each vote. So I'll explain again. We're in the middle of a day's work on this bill, and after it, we're in the middle of a city-building bill. The bill, which the committee of Andriew’s Dmitry Josephovich had been working on for a long time. The next is about voluntary unification of territorial communities, the Law on Local Self-Government, then two ratifications. And we voted on the alimony law. If we go into full procedure, it'll take us an hour, and we won't be able to deal with these issues that are on the order of the day. So by voting, I ask you to take that into account. I ask you to come into the hall, prepare for the vote and take part in the vote. So I'm asking you to take the job and vote. And please support my offer. Heads of factions, I ask the maximum to mobilize factions to vote. I ask you to take up your jobs and take part in the vote. So once again, I am putting to the vote the proposal that we have considered the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts 2514a by means of a reduced procedure. I ask you to vote. Please vote and please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Vote! [[16:10:12]] For-123 I'll put it again, colleagues, if there are no votes, we'll go to full reading. Let me show you through the factions. I also ask the heads of the committees for the following bills to carry out an explanatory work in the hall. Please take up your jobs. Colleagues, and once again, if we don't support the reduced procedure, it will be an hourly review, and we won't be able to make it and we won't be able to consider the next legislative act. Please support my offer. Now I'm going to put the third time on the vote. If there are no votes, we're going into full procedure. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. Please take up your jobs. Vote? You're ready, aren't you? My colleagues, I'm underlining again. I'm voting for the last time. If there are no votes, we're going into full procedure. And all the national MPs who approached me and asked for bills should realize that today we will not be able to consider ratifications of important international ones. Today we won't be able to look at construction if we don't work more optimally. And so I ask everyone to support me, and I ask that I now vote again in favour of draft Law 2514a for a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:13:19]] For-138 Let's move on to the full-examination procedure. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Sabashuk Peter Pavlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u2	Good afternoon, noble fellows! The law, which had been observed for two years in the secretariat of our Supreme Council, appeared in the hall today. It's very simple, just two digits: 15 or 10. What does that mean? We know that we have the Industrial Packs Act, which says that the industrial park can have a range of 15 to 700 hectares. We have registered about 20 industrial parks that are virtually out of work. Why? And we're driving, each one in his own district, through his own cities, where a whole bunch of factories that are bankrupt today, which are lying in ruins today, but they don't have an investment start. Why? And it's very simple, 15 hectares is a land area that's very hard to find within the city. So industrial parks were registered outside cities, on free land, without infrastructure, without anything. After 10 hectares, we're going to try to work on the idea of industrial parks. What is the industrial park for the city today? Two years ago, no one paid attention to the industrial parks of local government. Why? Because there was a question: business – difference, power – difference. But after we decentralized, when cities realized that the eggs from Kiev weren't being fed, and they needed to grow chickens and then get eggs on their own, they were interested in developing business sites and getting into the budget exactly the local taxes that they might be. And they're willing to give local preference to these parks today, and, more than that, cities today are willing to even fund the creation of parks in order to develop their territories that will provide jobs in the future and provide the taxes that the city needs very much. So I ask you to vote, frankly, there was a big discussion, right, two years ago with the Ministry of Economics and the Committee on Industry, because I insisted that there be an even smaller area, 5 hectares. But I've been convinced that it's not enough and try to experiment: put 10, work a year, look at the result, and then we'll correct this situation. So let me vote, because we're not giving any budget preferences today, no budget costs. We're giving a business site development tool to local communities, and we're giving them the opportunity not to get eggs, but to grow a chicken that's going to give these eggs in the future, and today, thanks to decentralization, they understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u3	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy. Excuse me, excuse me, let's ask the committee head a question. Please, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u4	Mr. Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished fellow members of the National Deputies, the committee considered the legislative initiative of National Deputy Sabashuk 2514 to reduce the minimum area of the industrial park from 15 hectares to 10 hectares in order for him to be included in the relevant register of the Cabinet of Ministers and so that he could use the tax incentives that we worked with you. Dear colleagues, I would like to focus your attention on a few very important points. I'll remind you that you and I have already adopted as the basis a legislative stimulus package for industrial parks, which provides for new production in Ukraine, for scientific research institutions that are being created, i.e. for manufacturing, for industry, for science that are being released for five years from income tax and for another five years, for import duties, for manufacturing equipment and schedules, at least for three years of import VAT. The possibility for local authorities to withdraw local taxes in order to attract investment and for the manufacturer to come to these areas. This is what is now being done as a package of legislative incentives and what will allow the industrial parks to be launched in Ukraine. What are industrial parks? In world experience, this is a better mechanism for investing in the industrial economy. When a state in areas where there is no production today, where there are no jobs today, where there is no tax base today creates special attractive tax conditions. This was the way China went, and Malaysia, and then Poland, Slovakia, Turkey, followed a very bright example. It's an industrialization mechanism, it's a real regional development mechanism. This is very important because this legislative package allows for real content in the reform of decentralization. That is why the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, supports the initiative of industrial parks, and that is why it is supported by a very large number of heads of district, state administrations and mayors. Because they realize that it's one of the few tools for competing not only with each other, but with other countries for investing, for tax bases, for working hands, and for Ukrainian talent. Industrial parks allow you to win this game. The history of developing them in the world is very difficult. For example, when Poland joined the European Union, Europe demanded Poland to abolish such a special regime, free economic zones, industrial parks, and so forth. The Poles stood up for this standard as temporary, and they kept it. Moreover, during their stay in the European Union, they continued their industrial parks and special industrial economic zones once again for 10 years. At the same time, they increased the area twice as much, and think about it. So the European Union demanded that the Poles retreat, the Poles did not resign, they developed their own production, and they are now successful. And you know where half a million of our fellow citizens have gone with you in the last two years? They went to Poland to live, to work, to earn. We want Ukrainians to live, earn, work and build their future in Ukraine, which requires industrial parks. The way it is today, it's just the basic rules of the game that essentially prevent investment from being involved. Because when tax incentives, preferences for industrial park manufacturers are in Turkey, Poland, Malaysia, China and so on, and we don't have, the question is, how can we compete with them? It's just a set of incentives. So on an average, I'm talking to Andrija Volodymyrovich Paruba to put on an industrial day a package of incentives for industrial parks along with other industrial laws. As far as this bill is concerned, it is supported for adoption as a basis in the first reading by the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. It has a positive conclusion from the anti-corruption committee. Our Main Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship considered it and at its meeting decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council on a first reading basis. We need to run industrial park mechanisms in Ukraine to win investment, jobs, taxes, for the welfare of citizens. We want Ukraine to be rich and successful, not that money, as it is today, is outsourced and beneficial to other countries. Let's build a successful Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u5	Thank you. I'd like to ask you a question to the reporter. Please record the question. Please turn on the microphone, Boyko Olena Petrovna. You're arguing. Please turn on the microphone. Ivan Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u6	Ivan Sporish, 15th Wynnickin County. I think it's a really important question today, and let's not waste time, let's support this bill, because the committee's head has made it very clear to us, I've chewed it up, I'm asking everyone to back it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u7	Thank you. A bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, every time I hear in this Parliament about the exemption from taxation or the granting of any preference to individual operators, I refer to the Law on State Aid to Hostages, which has already become effective in August of this year. I want to remind you that exemption from taxation is a state aid, and as a general rule, under this law state aid is unacceptable. In order for State aid to actually be available, there must be a procedure, including the Antimonopoly Committee. So I'd like to ask you when your committee is actually looking at similar projects, do you pay attention to the current rules of the State Aid Act, and also do you pay attention to the findings of the Antimonopoly Committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u9	Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u10	Thank you. Mrs. Victoria, every time you come up with questions about industry, I mention that you are the only national MP on the Committee of Economic Policy who didn't support the legislative initiative "Buy Ukrainians - Pay Ukrainians" yesterday. And that's actually very strange. [[Applause]] As far as the substance of your question is concerned, I want to tell you that all the legislative initiatives that our committee is taking, we are considering them in full compliance with the international agreements signed by Ukraine, by the legislation in force. Moreover, I would like to point out that this is not about State aid in any way. This is about setting conditions for activities that will stimulate the development of Ukrainian industry and innovation. This is not at all the same as State aid. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u11	And the last question from Dudenkov Alexander Valeriyovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u12	Mr. Chairman of the Committee, I have a question. The bill is not systematic, it is obviously a bill aimed at reducing the area of land on which industrial parks will be distributed. Is this a sufficient legislative initiative? It is a pity that this Supreme Council has very little attention to systemic economic issues, to what we need to address. And is there anything else that needs to be added to industrial parks, because the tool that was set up in 2012, and unfortunately we don't even have what it takes to create, in fact, investment incentives for economic development, to invest in foreign investment. What else do you think needs to be added?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u13	Dear Mr. Dudenkov, I completely agree with you, this is definitely not enough. This is just a small step that we are taking today. But in fact, you have to accept an investment stimulus package -- 2554a-d, 2555a-d, you have to take other legislative initiatives -- about free integration into engineering networks (6671), it works in the complex. We'll be with you shortly, I hope, in this room, "Buy Ukrainian -- Pay the Ukrainians." And finally, there's an export credit agency that the government is still responsible for creating by law. And this complex approach: investment incentives, cheaper credits, export incentives and advantages for Ukrainian producers in the internal market -- will actually have a systemic effect. I fully agree with you that the Supreme Council should act from the main to the secondary, not the other way around. That's why I'm asking Parliamentary head Andrija Volodymyrovich Paruba to spend the next session week in Parliament Industrial Development Day and to consider: a package of investment incentives for industrial parks, a model of free integration into engineering networks, like in the United States and Israel, "Buy Ukrainians - Pay Ukrainians," that's serious.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u14	Thank you. And I'll let you know if you're not fully aware that until the committee's decision is reached, no bill will appear in the room. And so please go to the committee, work on the committee, and then contact the Chief of the Supreme Council, please. Sit down, your report is complete. And immediately there will be speeches by the deputies, by the fellow workers, and. No, from factions. I only have one request from the factions, my colleague, that we conduct the discussion as precisely as possible. I'm asking you to keep a record of the political factions. Please. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Frowl gives the floor to Arthur Gerasimov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, please support this bill. Gather around and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, this is from Frolo's Peter Dust Block, National MP, please. Oh, Frolov's already on the line. And please, Kugel passes the word to Lucenka. Please, Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction will not vote in favour of the bill. But that's not what I'm talking about. Today, virtually every single one of you has received a small collection of poetry from the heavenly 100th of Basil Sergienka. Basil Sergienka was killed at the request of one of our colleagues in April 14. It was included in the Celestial 100. For three years, the killer of Vasil Sergeyenck, the hero of the Celestial 100, is sitting next to us. In the morning, we posted a poster that was sent to the Attorney General saying, "Mr. Attorney General, look, the killer of Sergeinka is in this room." But, you know, it's been, like, three years now, maybe it's been our responsibility with you guys -- that there's a person here who the law enforcement agencies and the entire activist community of Cherkaščina thinks is contracting the murder of Vasil Sergienka. We can't just keep our mouths shut anymore, so we're going to do this: we're going to issue this collection of poetry, we're going to give each of you a poster here. And we're going to keep doing this. But now I urge you. Look, what we have here right now is the kind of deputy Bobov, a member of the Rebirth Group, who is considered to be the subscriber of this murder, is our responsibility, for the fourth year that has passed since Maidan. Of course, we'll be collecting signatures to contact the Attorney General. We're going to demand that finally all these procedural actions that have been carried out quite clearly, all the necessary actions, I'm going to say, were closed performers, were closed organizers of this murder, and now there are all these people, about five people, another person in America. So there's actually a colossal work done by law enforcement agencies that resists at one moment. You know what it's like to cancel the MP's immunity. We've been waiting a year for the Attorney General's Office when Bobov is finally going to be like all other Ukrainian citizens in order to have all the necessary actions against him. And we expect the entire room to be ready for today until Lucenko, the Attorney General, brings this submission here. I would like to emphasize that all the necessary investigations have now been carried out. Now all depends on the Attorney General's will and on our vote with you here in Parliament. So once again, I urge you to read these verses of this man. Realize that we have an enormous moral obligation before him for entering this House of Parliament. And we'll vote. And we're looking forward to this submission, and we're going to vote for it. Like the killer of Sergeienka, such as Bobov, they shouldn't be sitting here. In the end, we must at least get rid of such things, even though we still have many sins, agree. So please take note of the case of Sergienka. Expect Lucen's submission. Ask him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out that now, as chairman, the Rules have been severely violated, because a group that, firstly, went to the rostrum together, and they did not speak on the bill under discussion, and more than that, in the bill under discussion, we don't have the form of getting out by a group and a report on that. Why didn't I interrupt? I just want the next time it doesn't happen. Because that's what Parliament Speaker asked me to do. He said that today we were trying to violate the Rules of Procedure of Deputies, to hang tears in the historic premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the speaker promised to give them a speech during some discussion. That's what I want to point out. Dear colleagues, I have very often presided over fairly justly the deputies urge them to comply with the Rules, to abide by them. It's important. I also ask MPs to abide by the Rules, not to hang posters in the session room, this is a violation of the Rules, and not to speak out on the subjects under discussion. And to the colleagues who just spoke and you had a word, next time I ask you just to take a break from two factions, to have your three minutes, to speak on the topic that is relevant to you. Please. Because Yuri Lewchenko, my colleague, is very careful in asking us to comply with the Rules, and he is now severely violating it. Thank you. Oh, and now he's yelling at me again. Yuri, be nice, please. Now, please, the Self-Help faction. No, I'm not in the context of negative, you're breaking up the discussion. And now I'd like to give the floor to an honorary colleague from the Self-Help faction, Sir Georges' honorary colleague, please. Babak gives him the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u19	Comrades, good afternoon! The drafters and MPs who lobby for the introduction of tax incentives for industrial parks tell us every time they tell us they're going to be billions of investments, they're going to be new jobs, they're going to be new jobs, they're going to be new productions that are going to be created in Ukraine. I open an explanatory note and read what it takes to reduce the area of industrial parks from 15 to 10 acres [15 to 10 ha]. And there I can see clearly that this will allow land to be used by active industrial enterprises within the population. I'm sorry, we're creating new productions in new territories, or we're creating new productions for businesses and owners who haven't been able to use their property effectively, and we're creating tax incentives and preferences, and we're putting them back into non-competitive conditions with companies that are now working and being effective. I mean, friends, unfortunately, you're contradicting yourself when you're proposing the same things, but in other bills. I would like to point out that the Self-Help faction unanimously advocates investing, creating new jobs, but not by discrediting, including tax discrediting existing enterprises and creating offshore areas in the territories of some or other non-activities or some other land. Likewise, I would like to address myself with great respect. Mr. Halasyuk, listen, please! Mr. Halasyuk, I'd like to address you as a lobbyist of industrial parks with great respect, but you're smart or beautiful. When you talk about tax preferences for industrial parks, including income tax, but then you deny the possibility of introducing tax in Ukraine for all businesses on the output capital, which also guarantees the non-payment of dividend tax, I don't understand: do you support industry, do you support job creation, or do you lobby for separate territories? So if you're competing for jobs, for investments, for the competitive Ukraine among the countries with which Ukraine is competing for investment, you're competing for capital, let's join in and jointly support the draft law on taxation in Ukraine on capital output. And together we will achieve this goal. In general, we do not support the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u20	Thank you. Please, from the Opposition Block, the People's Deputy of Doubenkov. Please. We just have a computer jumping over here, then you. Okay, now. Alexander Dudenkov, I'm sorry. Mr. Dudenkov, Mr. Dudenkov, this is a computer system. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, there's a system that jumps through one. Well, now, then you're gonna come out, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u21	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u22	Okay. I will also ask the secretariat to bring your computer system in order because your names are skipping. I now have Galchenko, the Opposition Block. After that, Yuzkova. Well, that's how I stand. Come and see. Come here. No, I'll ask the leader of the Radical Party to come. No, please look at the computer. Dear colleague, there's Galchenko, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u23	Colleagues, pay attention! Ira, what is the dispute?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u24	Well, that goes beyond decency. First, Dludenkov, then Yuzkova. No, because he requires us to start. What's going on?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u25	My colleagues, I'd like to confirm that we have a performance now from Galchenk's Opposition Block, and then there will be a performance from the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u26	Come on, look at the computer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u27	Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u28	I didn't make that up, really. You have a very radical computer, we have a normal computer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u29	I don't know how radical the computer is, but radically, they're always here in this Supreme Council Hall, especially the Rules. Dear colleagues, I believe it's a technical bill that does not provide specific tax benefits. Thus, it expands the range of subjects on which industrial parks are distributed. Yes, it reduces the land area that is designed to function and use it under industrial parks. Regarding Andrew, who said that someone was lobbying the interests of disgruntled owners. So now there's a lot of destroyed businesses within the city, outside the city, I don't care. What matters to me is that this company is going to work, that new equipment is going to be imported. For good reason, I asked the head of the committee of profile, or was it enough? He was talking about his bills for some reason. I don't understand why only coalition bills are being considered. The Opposition Block faction has also registered bills. Moreover, she introduced a special taxation regime for industrial parks. Bill 6201, registered in March 2017. What benefits are now being introduced by existing legislation for industrial parks? This is an exemption from the import moment of equipment and the release of industrial park participants from the payment of fuel for the development of local infrastructure. Is that enough? Of course not. The Industrial Parks Act was passed in 2012. Why? Because in every country that has a very rapid economic development, it's North Korea, South Korea, it's Singapore, it's the People's Republic of China. They created export processing zones, they created technology parks, free economic zones. These zones were the driver of economic development. We don't need to invent our own bike. There are mechanisms, there must be incentives. If these incentives are implemented not on a country-wide scale, but at least on an industrial scale, I'm in two hands for it. But we didn't work in industrial parks. We need to put in place a special tax regime, exemption from import VAT, exemption from income tax, imposition of property taxes, that's land pay, that's real estate tax. Consider also our draft of the Opposition Block, we have a clear programme of development and implementation of the mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u30	From the Radical Party, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u31	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. A few questions came from a respected colleague to me, although I am not the author of this bill, but I am one of the main apologists of industrial parks, I will answer you. In the case of active enterprises. Dear colleagues, the law is in force. You and I have adopted 2844 in this room, yes. There is a law on industrial parks based on the rules of work that stipulates that the area where the entire property complex is located cannot be included in such an industrial park in the register and cannot receive any tax incentives. A whole asset complex is a set of assets that allows you to produce products, factories or factories. If this is about Greenfield, that is, the whole green area, or the leftovers, where there's no activity, there's nothing, it's not working, it's essentially the same Greenfield, just with the infrastructure. The other one. As far as the offshores are concerned. I'm surprised because you're a member of the tax committee, you have to know what offshores are. Offshores are foreign lining companies for which money is spent. There are no Ukrainian jobs, there is no use for Ukraine. This is done simply to get the money out of the country. Industrial parks are better medicines than offshores, because in Ukraine areas where investments are involved, productive capacities are created, wages are paid. And what I'm pointing out is that the minimum wage requirement in the industrial park, according to our package of laws that we've presented, is 11,000 dollars minimum. So if someone from abroad wants to come and create jobs and 3,000 dollars to pay, let them do it, in Poland they'll try to pay 3,000 dollars. That's why 11,000 dollars is a minimum. And these are offshore drugs, and this is going to allow a lot of the money that's being spent abroad, and over $7 billion a year in offshores, imagine. Some of these funds are left in the country to work for the Ukrainian economy, while the Ukrainian economy has worked for every citizen. It's about the tax on the capital out. I think it's a completely wrong economic model, which for a country is destructive to the budget and does not stimulate industry. Why? Because the tax on the capital outlay is the exemption from the income tax. Of the more than 50 billion companies that pay income tax, 90 percent pay only a thousand. What you're proposing is to free a thousand companies from paying income tax, and that includes trading companies, I'm not going to call it, I'm not going to call it, I think you know what this is about. So you have to create not the kind of tax on output that doesn't give anything to industry, but just for industry, just for innovation, just for high technology and just for new investment, not for existing production, and that's the principle of position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u32	Colleagues, the factions of the discussion are over. Now please sign up, five minutes, one minute from the National MPs. Please hold the recording, five minutes, one minute at a time. Please hold the recording. From the Radical Party, Linko Dmitry gives the floor to Láško Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u33	Dear colleagues! As long as you and I are here arguing about what taxes should be imposed or not introduced, I'll give you one piece of news. The teacher of 2016 Violeta Macedonia from the Coast of Zacarpathia Region moved to Britain, where she works as a caregiver for an 80-year-old English grandfather. Teacher of the year. Why did she leave? Because she said the teacher's job in Ukraine is low-paid, there's no future, there's no prospect. And the best teacher of the year, last year, 2016, is taking care of the pots and taking out the wages of the day, which she received a month ago as a teacher in Ukraine. And you're starting to tell me that we shouldn't fight for higher wages, higher pensions? Tomorrow, no one will be left in Ukraine if you pursue that policy that you had for 26 years. That's why the Radical Party policy is to increase the income of Ukrainians and jobs for our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u34	Thank you. Longenkov Alexander Valeriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u35	It's very easy to talk about an increase in wages and an increase in the number of jobs, but at the same time, by supporting tax hikes and increasing tax burdens before the next budget process. The position of the Opposition Block is to stop the annual rise in absolute taxes, environmental taxes, excise taxes, rents to outspend our domestic business. Also develop an integrated economic strategy to increase the drinking weight, the manufacturing industry for real energy efficiency, for real modernization of transport energy infrastructure. Because of energy efficiency, we can double GDP, and unfortunately, there's nothing to talk about GDP. In 2013, GDP was $183 billion, now 91. So we're giving tax incentives to boost production in the real economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u36	Thank you. Kirichenko gives the floor to Chižmar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u37	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party. My dear colleagues, I don't think each of you are a secret that any of you has any kind of business, whether Ukrainian or foreign, going to Ukraine to build serious manufacturing, facing a lot of problems and connections to electricity, and land allocation and gas supply, and arbitrary documentation. And it takes two to seven years. And so a lot of businesses hold back from entering Ukraine because their investment program does not foresee such long-term entry into the market. Industrial parks are a form where we can create conditions for entering with the smallest license or license documents. And so it doesn't matter if it's a new area, or if it's the hectares of former Soviet factories that are just kids playing and traumating there today. We're going to turn the manufacturing company, there's no value for the country, there's no jobs, there's taxes, there's no innovation -- that's where we're building the innovation parks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u38	Thank you. Husak Vladimir Georgievicz, please turn on the microphone from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u39	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Dear Head! I would like to start again with the call to organize the work of the Supreme Council. The consideration of this question we started at 16:13, before the Head of the Supreme Council asked three questions about the reduced procedure, the hall obviously didn't support it, and I don't understand where the limitation of five minutes and one minute, didn't the room support the shortened procedure? Three votes. As far as this bill is concerned, we are very happy that it is being considered, because in the end, Parliament is paying attention to the problems of the Ukrainian industry. And, dear colleagues, when we are told that economic growth has begun in Ukraine, this is not the case. In January-September 2017, industrial production in Ukraine fell. And let's say, compared to January-September 2014, it's less than 12 percent. We're not growing in production, and that's why any increase in wages and pensions is going to eat inflation. And this bill we will support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would like to inform those who speak of a violation of the Rules, which is stated in the Rules, that the full procedure should be followed by a word for the opportunity of national MPs. It's not specified how many minutes or how many minutes to give. Read carefully the Rules, and then go to the rostrum, and criticize the Rules for discussion. So this is the closing act, Krivenko Victor, one minute. And then there'll be a closing statement, and we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u41	Dear colleagues! Krivenko Victor, National Movement of Ukraine. First of all, we need to understand that worldwide, there is a war for investment. Only in the countries of our neighbours who have borders, across the sea or land, more than a thousand things called industrial parks, free economic zones, special economic, manufacturing and technological zones, as in Turkey, that fight for an investor. And so, with a good business climate, they create areas where less taxes, where the state supports infrastructure. And only their agents, when they come here, are individual prime minister advisors saying that you don't need it in Ukraine, that people are being pushed down, that there are some extra benefits in this bill right now that are not in this bill. Finally, I want to thank the Lviv authorities, who actively supported and implemented the industrial parks tool and already have jobs in Lviv. And I want to say that in this war, Ukraine will either win or disappear if we don't create jobs. If we don't create incentives for investors to come, industrial parks are a very good tool, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u42	Thank you, colleagues. Colleagues, we're going to have a closing statement, and in one minute we're going to move on to making a decision. So I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the Hall, and I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies to the Hall. Now turn on Sabashuku's microphone, Petra Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u43	Peter Sabashuk. You know, I'm listening to the discussion, and I'm told that's the word "and here's Ostapa." It's not about industrial parks, it's not about taxation, it's about preferences. Today the question is that it is very difficult to find a 15 - hectare [15 ha] area in the city. And just to expand the possibility of cities, the areas in industrial parks to reduce them to 10 hectares, this time no preference. Cities and local communities will give if they want to develop business, their preferences, and even invest money in these parks. This is the prerogative of the local authorities. Allow cities to resolve these issues on their own. The Supreme Council's preferences will be accepted or not accepted – that's the second question. Today. For today, what is today is still an opportunity to survive industrial parks even in places. And there is a great desire for many mayors to organize them. But it's practically impossible to find 15 acres in the city. Let's cut to ten, and I think we should cut to five. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u44	So, colleagues, we're done here, and we're moving on to making a decision. Please, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on land claims within an industrial park (number 2514a) on the basis of a committee proposal. Please vote, please support. Based on the base. Please vote. We'll support it, colleagues. [[16:54:48]] For-187 Colleagues, I'm going to make the following suggestion: return to the committee for further work. Let's maybe support this proposal so that we don't lose the bill, colleagues. I ask you to unite, enter the hall, and take up jobs. I propose to refer the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts (2514a) to the Committee for Re-reading. Please vote, please support. Let's unite, let's support the return to the committee, it'll be the right thing to do. Please be supportive. Vote, please. [[16:55:42]] For 193 I propose a final vote: to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for the drafting of Law 2514a. Please vote, please support. We vote, colleagues, to return the subject to the legislative initiative. Let's support it. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. It's a compromise position, which. [[16:56:13]] For 215 We didn't make it, did we? Let me do it again. Colleagues, and I propose to support this so that we don't lose the bill, colleagues, take your seats, I'll put it again. Thus, the bill of Law 2514a should be corrected, and the subject of the legislative initiative should be reinstated. Please vote, please support, colleagues, let's support. Please vote. We'll stand by, colleagues, we'll vote. It's a compromise position. [[16:56:58]] For 219 All, colleagues, the rejected draft of Law 2514a. Colleagues, I've been approached by a statement from two factions for a break from the Rebirth Group and the People's Will Group. They ask for a performance, but not even for three minutes, but for one minute, Andrew Shipk. Mr. Andrew, please, one minute, and we're moving on to the construction site. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u45	Dear National Deputies! I want to distract you from such hard work and welcome you to the rostrum the children of the city of Nicopola, the famous Cossack country. So they came to see how we work, how we adopt legislation. Let us therefore wish them health, happiness. The city of Nicopol is a famous city, a Cossack city, where there is a powerful industrial potential. And I want them to be real. to our future, which will, in fact, continue and develop our state. Thank you, dear fellows. Thank you, children, for visiting us. Health, Happiness, and God’s Blessing!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u46	Thank you. Good luck and good luck to you. Welcome! And we're going to draft the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation (No. 6403). And I ask you, colleagues, to support the consideration of this bill by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[16:58:36]] For 148 We didn't make it. Once again, I propose draft Law 6403 to be considered in a simplified procedure. Colleagues, attention, please support, please vote. Please support, we vote. [[16:59:03]] For-161 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the first deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, and the Andrieev Dmitry Josephovich. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u47	Respectful colleagues, distinguished Andrija Volodymyrovich, city - planning analysis, and numerous appeals by local authorities testify to the need to normalize issues related to improving the quality of spatial planning documentation, improving public hearings to take into account public interests, and reducing tensions in the planning and construction of buildings. In addition, it is essential to address the issue of the development of spatial planning documentation for united communities with a view to establishing the boundaries of the territories of the united territorial communities and creating opportunities for the removal of land for urban needs. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Urban and Housing at its meeting on 21 June 2017 reviewed the draft Law of Ukraine amending the Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities, registration number 6403, introduced by the Ukrainian deputies Andriyewski, Skuratovski, Stasuk, Sabashuk, Levchenk and other national deputies. The bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation with a view to regulating planning and land-locking issues, regulating issues related to the settlement of relations in the design and approval of spatial planning documentation, and providing unified territorial communities with single spatial planning documentation. The provisions of the bill are designed to improve the structure of the construction documentation and to identify the composition and content of all this documentation. There's a positive conclusion from the Chief Research Administration. The committee proposes to adopt this law in the first reading as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u48	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. From the Self-Help faction, Opanasenko Alexander Valeriyovich. He's giving the word "Zubadu." From the ground or from the rostrum? Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u49	Lubomir Zubac, Self-Help faction. The bill is closely related to the functioning of the united territorial communities. Their formation has started for three years, so it's going to take up to now, I'd say, with a changeful success. Regrettably, today we can say that the government and authorities of the State executive authorities responsible under the law for accompanying this process of decentralization do not perform their duties well enough. Why? From a financial point of view. Every year, the support of the united territorial communities declines if they are proportional to their number. It's organizational. The promising plans that were laid down in the Law on Voluntary Unions of Communities have, in fact, turned into propaganda and are not working. With regard to regulatory provisions. Three years have passed since the creation of united territorial communities. To this day they do not have the right to manage the land outside the populated areas. We do not have a good legal regulation of sectoral reforms in the field of education and medicine that relate to the functioning of united territorial communities. Finally, last time. To this day, the united territorial communities and their elected local self - government authorities have not even been able to approve the city’s spatial legislation. Only today. Thank you to the appropriate MPs who passed the bill. Although the government had to pass this bill three years ago. That's why Self-Help supports this bill. It is needed for the united territorial communities. But we urge the government to step up its work by contributing to the proper, quality and decentralization process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u50	Thank you. From the People's Front, Anointed Andrew Vitaliovich passes the word Kodoli, right? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u51	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. Dear colleagues, a very important bill from our committee of profile, which also regulates the transfer of land to the united communities so that we can have a more successful decentralization process. That's why I'm talking to all my colleagues. Our faction will support this bill on the basis. And I call on all factions to support and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u52	Thank you. From "The Fatherland" Rybczyn Aleksei Mihajlovich. Alexei Mikhailovich Rybchin, your performance now, your performance now. Ichchenkovi. Please, Vadim Yvchenko from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u53	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! A number of positive norms, including the restoration of expertise, are really enshrined in this law. We're designing the country's general scheme today, and we're making spatial planning for our communities. But please tell me. We now have 92 percent of the rural, rural councils, almost 100 percent, and they are: (a) somewhat united; (b) no finances and no funds. What happens when one of the investors comes and wants to install alternative electricity. This law obliges these poor villages to make detailed plans for land planning, to reconcile them, and to spend money. Please tell me, are we budgeting compensation for these budgets, or are we not? I'll give you an example of Volina. Zinkow territorial community. There are 4 million development budgets this year at the expense of this decentralization of 400,000. Yeah, they're going to spend five years doing that. We support if the government says that between the first and the second reading, we will make the most of it for villages and villages or we will make changes to the Budget Code, where we will compensate for the cost of these detailed plans and unlock the development of rural and rural councils directly. Just believe what we're in pain. And I want to say this, colleagues, I read 24 articles. So from the 24th article, we see that even a change of purpose, if you want to involve a teacher who will come, and today we have villages directly within our boundaries of the walls sealed, you won't be able to give him land to build a house without this teacher spending money on a detailed plan of the entire community. Understand this: We will spend no more money on these villages, such as extinction. Let's take that into account and let the government promise either compensation in the budget or we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u54	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. The tooth will comment at the end, and I will allow him to comment. He won't be able to avoid commenting, we'll make him comment, Mr. Hennadia, but after the discussion. This is the last performance. You're arguing with Ivan Dmitrovich from Peter Dustenk's Block. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u55	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, Peter Prashenko's Block will support this bill, because we see that the unification of the territorial communities they are, they will be. We have to do everything we can to help the government through full decentralization. So the creation of a state register, the promotion of decentralization, all of this makes it possible today for us to adopt the bill. So we ask everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u56	Thank you. Before giving the word to Gennady Zubka, who is present at our meeting, I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the Hall and ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to report that we have completed the discussion and move on to the decision-making process. Everyone please come into the hall and take up jobs. I now give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Hennadia Zubka, one minute. Mr. Hennaday, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, I am sure that I would like everyone to gather and support this bill today. With this bill, we open the way for governance in our territory to united territorial communities. When it is said that we impose extra duties or impose responsibilities, this simplifies the way we plan the territory. Because instead of three documents, the territorial planning scheme, the community planning scheme, the master plan for individual population sites, is introduced in one document that relates to a unified community plan. The bill opens the way for the next step to be able to manage land resources, since land resources must be properly planned by the united territorial community, must be transparent and public. And this is the moment where it allows us to plan the development of the community and to enable the development of the community. So let us not restrict our united territorial communities, which today have the potential of budget decentralization to practically get budgets at the level of district cities as far as income, taxes, taxes, tax structures, and simply allow them to develop. I'd like to give you a few figures and show you that today, 413 communities are not at all able to make decisions in terms of urban activity. And when we say that we want to do something good, let's just take the first step to vote in the first reading and between the second and the second reading take into account all the observations and maybe improve the things that are. Now it's about funding. We realize that financial resources in different communities today are different. But that does not mean that today we should deprive them of their ability to plan the territory. How can we help? Either through subsidies from a unified territorial community, or through the Regional Development Fund, or through sectoral support from the European Union, or through the ability to anticipate and budget support for the establishment of such territorial planning, it is our task to discuss with you how to do this. So directly, I ask you to support in the first reading, vote, and move on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u58	So let's move on to making a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] So let's move on to decision-making, please take your seats. And I'm putting the bill to a vote. Okay, I'll wait another 10 seconds until they come in. I've got MPs coming in. 30 seconds we're waiting. Please, Hennaday Zubko. Replica, 30 seconds. Take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u59	It's a very short line. Let's put together now between the first and the second readings we're proposing a normative act that relates to the direction of the use of OTG subsidies to predict this direction that should finance the planning of the territories. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u60	Thank you. I'll put it to a vote with a proposal made by the Prime Minister, yes. Deputy Prime Minister, I'm sorry. So I'm voting on a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities (No. 6403), which was proposed by Deputy Prime Minister Hennady Zubko on the basis of a transcript. Please vote, and I ask you to support this as a basis. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:13:05]] For 257 Decision taken. Colleagues, I'd like to inform you. Colleagues, attention, we are now moving on to the next, no less important Law 6466. But I would like to inform you once again that we decided on Tuesday to consider the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the protection of the right of the child to adequate custody (7277). He's out in the hall, the committee's decided on him, and after 6466 we'll move on to this bill so that you can prepare yourself so that you can make a decision about the factions. We are now moving to the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Voluntary Association of Territorial Communities on the Voluntary Integration of Rural Communities, Cities of Area Value (6466). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Colleagues, please support, please vote, vote. [[17:14:25]] For-162 And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dekhtyarchuk Alexander Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u61	Respectable Society! The practice of implementing decentralization legislation dictated the need to create an appropriate law. The united territorial communities of cities of regional importance with other territorial communities are not carried out either because of the objective reluctance of the city’s heads and city councils of regional importance, which represent usually very large or large territorial communities to go to new elections to unite with small rural, rural, and open district communities, as well as the open blockade of district councils, reservations, district administrations, which, in promising plans approved by district councils, are virtually often openly isolated by cities of regional importance for the creation of such united territorial communities. In order to address this problem, the draft law proposes to extend to the territorial communities of cities the order of integration into capable united territorial communities, other territorial communities, without holding the first elections to the city council. To this draft law, it is proposed to compare the territorial communities of cities of regional importance to capable united territorial communities. The territorial communities of cities of regional importance are in all cases capable territorial communities and are the basis for the formation of new communities. Thus, their comparison with the able - bodied united territorial communities is vindicated. As a result of the adoption of this law, in Ukraine more than 100 united territorial communities will be able to gain the right to develop. We were also approached by a group of deputies who recommend the following procedure. Please accept the bill as amended, namely in this bill the digits 8 prime 1, 8 prime 3 change to 8, 8 prime 3. This will enable cities of district importance to create united territorial communities, both by joining, that is, without elections, and by means of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u62	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u63	In the same way as the creation of voluntary united communities, that is, elections. With this right from the people's deputies, which are in agreement with the Minregionbud, we decide the voting issue in the hall and we think it's going to be the right thing to do. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, please open the road to over 100 united communities of cities of regional importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u64	The co - report invites the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government, Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich. Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u65	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council, Andria Paruba, at its meeting on 7 June 2017, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities on the Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities of Rurals, a settlement to the territorial communities of cities of regional importance, introduced by a group of Ukrainian National Deputies. The Act proposes to amend Chapter IV of the Final Position Act of Ukraine on the voluntary unification of territorial communities and to recognize that they are capable of being united territorial communities for the cases provided for in article 8.8. 3 of this law, the territorial communities of the cities of the Republic, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, of district importance. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, has made a number of comments to the bill and considers that the first reading of the bill should be rejected. The All - Ukrainian Association of Local Self - Rule Authorities, the Association of Ukrainian Cities, supports the adoption of the law as a basis and as a whole as a result of the first reading. Following a comprehensive discussion of the issue, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with paragraph 1, part one and part two, 114 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the draft Act amending the Act on the Voluntary Association of Territorial Communities for the Voluntary Integration of Territorial Communities of Rurals, the settlements to the territorial communities of cities of regional importance (registration number 4466), introduced by a group of Ukrainian National Deputies, as a result of the first reading, to be accepted as a basis and as a whole. I also support what my colleague Dehtirczuk said under the transcript, regarding the possibility of choosing a way to unite the territorial communities, whether to join voluntarily without an election or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u66	Thank you. Please record: two for, two for, please. From the People's Front, Alexeiev Igor Sergiyovich, please pass the word to the leader of the Maksim Burbak faction. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u67	Dear colleagues! I'm talking to everyone as a 204th election district deputy. I ask you to support this bill because it deals with the main issues regarding the non-adopted decision by the Central Election Commission to hold the first elections to the unified territorial communities in the cities of regional importance. 204th constituency, city of Novodnystrovsk energy. For over a year, there has been a decision to completely unite and create an OTH, and TEC has refused twice because it says that it is not regulated by law. So today we need to support the bill and finally allow it to unite. Because the local authorities, the head of the district administration of Beskovski, the head of the district council of Kozak, are doing everything they can to prevent this community from getting help from the state, from getting funding for infrastructure projects, and this is a city of energy engineers that was created in the 1970s, which is building the first and largest hydroaccumulation station in Europe, we need to support them. Therefore, fellow Members, I now appeal to you to concentrate and vote on the basis and in general with the rights of the committee and the parliamentary group so that the cities of regional importance can unite with the surrounding villages and create powerful united territorial communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u68	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to a self-help presentation by Zubaj Lubomir Lvivitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u69	Lubomir Zubac, Self-Help faction. For no one is the secret that big cities and cities are de facto removed from the process of unifying territorial communities, they are not involved, and there are both objective and subjective reasons. And one of these objective reasons is that we are really removing the bill that was put forward for consideration. I'm talking about it. about this ridiculous norm that says that if he wants to unite. For example, a millionaire city and a village where 100 people live, they should definitely go to elections. But actually the problem of cities, the development of cities is much deeper, I'm talking about the problem of spatial development. Today most of the great cities are sealed within their borders, sealed formally, sealed de jure, because their borders are approved very often in Soviet times. They've been out of these boundaries for a long time, and these areas, which are part of the only socio-economic organism, because the people who live in the suburbs, they're learning in the city, they're being treated, they're working in the city, but in terms of service, they have jurisdiction or the area, or the OTH created. Therefore, we propose that this law should clearly be voted on as a basis and as a whole, but that is not to be stopped. The next step is to adopt a bill on urban agglomerations. You don't have to come up with bicycles, urban agglomerations -- it's a form of space-based urban development that's being tested by the entire civilized world, but a form of non-absorbing, but a form of cooperation that's mutually beneficial between the big city and those villages that are located in the suburban zone. That is why I call on the Supreme Council, the leadership of the Supreme Council, to have this bill brought forward in the near future for consideration by the Council so that we can accept it, because without the development of cities there will be no development.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u70	Thank you. I've determined that you're asking me to vote on the basis and on the whole. That's good practice. And I invite Krulk Ivan Ivanovich to the word "fatherland" which conveys the word of Vadim Yvchenk. Please, Mr. Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u71	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, the law that is now really necessary to unlock the process between the centres of district importance or villages that you are now deprived of as a foundational tax coalition. But there is one question. As Fatherland, we support this bill. But the question is, if 10,000 people join the city of the region in the total population of 10,000, do you need to re-elect your head? Yes, I do. What's the limit? What if it's 3 or 5,000, or half of this city, you need a head-reelection? Yes, I do. So let's talk with you between the first and the second when we're going to re-elect the heads if we add a certain number of people to this district center, that's normal for parity. Party, people cast their votes for the head of a united territorial community. If these are small villages — 500, 600 or a thousand people join the city of regional importance — it is normal to join the local council — the village council or village council. So "Paternity" supports this bill as a basis and we ask your colleagues to take these proposals into account between the first and second readings so that we don't have positions when cities use land and gather as much as possible, knowing that, I mean, gathering land resources, including financial resources, knowing that the election of heads will not pass or will gradually join 10 villages, and then another 10 villages, because they will see what the population will join. Let's discuss it, too, so that, in the shortest term, the law can also be passed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u72	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make the final speech of Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich of the Rebirth Party. After that. Yeah, he hasn't been to the Front yet, has he? Well, "Front" is now. Then we go to the vote. And I ask you to invite all the deputies into the hall, and I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please, Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u73	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Gulyav.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u74	This bill, 6466, completely nullifies the word "voluntary," the voluntary union will pass, this volunteer will no longer be. This beautiful name for "voluntary communities" is the end. I ask you not to support this bill. The Rebirth Group won't support it at all. And if others feel that they can be supported in the first reading, the discussion may be up to the second reading, and the first reading does not need to be accepted as a basis. And I ask everyone not to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u75	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm only on your permission. Please come into the hall. I'll tell you, we've been reforming decentralization and local self-government for four years. She needs an incentive, she needs our decisions. And this law is one of the most important stages that will allow us to increase the number of united communities. And I call upon all the national MPs to take a very responsible approach to this vote. This is a big signal for our cities to create new forms — united territorial communities. I believe that we should unite as much as possible around this bill. And I'm going to make the first proposal, the committee proposal. I think and I think it would be right to vote on it as a whole. Of course, if it doesn't work out, I'll lay the groundwork, but I would like you to hold final consultations and support such proposals by the committee. It's 1 minute, Gennady Zubko, and we're moving on to making a decision. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, it is heartwarming that there is not a single person in the room today who does not support the reform of decentralization. Today we only have a discussion about how to do better, but I would like to say that we just need to move, because today there are a lot of people who live in cities of district importance who are simply deprived of the ability to get normal income, to get normal development and to move forward in order to develop their communities. When we talk about the first, second reading, listen, let's just make decisions. The decisions that need to be made today, the decisions that need to be made from the point of view of urban agglomerations, the decisions that allow for movement and development of a country that is now building a foundation for the creation of new communities that have powers that have resources and responsibility. And I would like to ask the Hall to support on the basis itself and in general this bill, which should open the way to a very large number of citizens who are today deprived, unfortunately, of their strategy, for their planning and for their development. Therefore, I ask you to unite, support, and vote on this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u77	Thank you, but the discussion is over. We should've given the sign sooner. The discussion is over, colleagues. All right, one minute, Dudenkov. Please come into the hall. The Cloud hasn't come forward yet, so I'm giving it one minute. Don't leave the hall, come into the hall, we're busy. One minute, Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u78	"Responsible." Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Your Honor. The Opposition Block certainly supports the idea of decentralization, supports the idea of this bill, but the vote in general warns. We only support it on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u79	Thank you. Colleagues, I'll be the first to make a proposal to the committee. I can already see in the hall that it's obviously not going to work. Then I'll lay the groundwork. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Voluntary Association of Territorial Communities on the Voluntary Association of Rural Communities, the Cities of Area Value (No. 6466), as amended by the National Deputy of Ukraine Dekhtyarchuk Alexander Volodymyrovic, who proposed the Committee as a basis and as a whole. I'm asking you to support everyone. We'll signal local self-government. We'll support local communities. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Every voice, every colleague, every voice matters. [[17:31:13]] For a hundred and And now I'm betting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u80	Okay. And I'm going to put a shortcut. I'm betting now 6466, draft law, on a basis. And then I'll put it in a separate ballot. It doesn't make sense. Yeah, that's right. Based on the base. And so I'm asking you, this is this proposal that you've been given, I'm asking you to support 6466 as a basis. Please vote. Colleagues, please support. And careful. We're voting on the basis. Vote 6466. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:31:57]] For 229 Decision taken. This is an important decision. I hope that in the next two weeks we will be able to look at the second reading and make a responsible decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now, colleagues, as I have warned, we are moving to the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the protection of the child's right to due maintenance by improving the order of compulsory debt from alimony payments (No. 7277). Tuesday we voted to accept it on Thursday. The committee considered that the materials were given to you after the break. And I'm asking you to support the consideration of this bill by a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Let's hold on, please, everyone. [[17:32:59]] For-170. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Alexeiev Igor Sergiyovich, head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice. Please, Igor Alexeyev is handing over Anointed One from the committee, representing the committee. Okay, first we're going to give Anointed from a group of authors, then Alexey from the committee. Please, Andrew Amazanov. But please speak in a concise manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u81	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, this bill is designed precisely because we have clearly in the Family Code that parents are obliged to support their child until it reaches the age of 18, that is, adulthood. Today, we have such statistics that more than 500,000 families today are where parents who have abandoned their children under certain circumstances do not pay for their children’s maintenance. That's why we, together with the Ministry of Justice, with the National Deputies, with the Women of Ukraine, with all the public organizations that have shown a desire to join this kind of initiative, have been drafted a Bill of 7277, which is called upon to make such methods and means now for every child in our country to have proper maintenance and adequate means of existence. We propose this law, first, temporarily, if the debt is more than three months from default by one parent, whether it is a mother or a father, is a temporary restriction, a waiver of the right to drive. This is not the case with someone who directly earns a living. This will not apply to taxi drivers, not to drivers, and so on, that is, those who do it professionally. We suggest restricting, simplifying the procedure for banning going abroad. We know that today this procedure is quite complicated, and the public contractor has the right or the right to ban or not to ban the right to go abroad to pay alimony. Today, we do so by making sure that a person who does not pay alimony and his alimony obligations does not go abroad. And there's a simple slogan that if you don't pay your child, if you can't keep it, you don't get a car or go abroad. Here's the deal. I'm asking you to add a little bit more literally.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u82	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u83	We suggest we limit it. If the child cannot buy a toy if the parent with whom the child remains cannot buy it, cannot provide it, cannot lead to a garden or school, we also offer someone who does not pay alimony, to deprive him of his social welfare: we offer temporary restrictions on the right to hunt, use firearms and traumatic weapons to make him understand what it is when his child is unsecured. That is why we have made this law, and yet we propose to establish just conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u84	Thank you. Just so we can vote. Clearly, it is a unifying bill. And from the committee, please, head of the Legal Policy and Justice Subcommittee, Igor Alexeyev. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. The Law and Justice Committee met urgently today and we considered this bill (register No. 7277), registered by the people’s deputies Lucenko, Amazanov, Heratchenko, and others. A total of 39 national deputies support this initiative at this stage. The bill aims to increase the responsibility of irresponsible parents and provides for increased measures to influence alimony payments. In considering the bill, members of the committee positively appreciate the initiative and consider it to be appropriate, which can significantly improve the situation of alimony default. The main elements of the bill were reported by the author of the bill. I would like to point out that all the comments made by the Expert Office that have been made from this. This bill will be deleted when this bill is drafted for second reading. The committee's on its own. I decided to recommend this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u86	Thank you. Colleagues, we have a chance to join the discussion. I ask you to sign up for this bill. While the recording is under way, I ask you to turn on the microphone to the honorary minister of justice, Paul Petrenko. Please, Minister, one minute, and the record please be on the screen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u87	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! There are really no foreign children, and this confirms the fact that the bill was signed by 40 national deputies. All the leaders of factions and groups, whether they are in opposition or in power, have backed a bill that provides for the protection of children's rights. This is about 600,000 children who are victims of economic violence by their parents who care for them. I very much ask you to concentrate and mobilize, because this is not a political bill, this is not even a legal bill, this is a law that carries out the moral duty of society to protect its citizens, small citizens, Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainian children. Please, mobilize, let's support this bill, even though the workday is over and everyone is tired. You've done a huge job today, you've backed a law that protects the business of mask show stop. Support Ukrainian children, 600,000 Ukrainian children, and they will be very grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u88	Thank you. Please, from the faction of Igor Lapin, from the faction of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u89	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u90	Heroim Slava.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, let's stop barging around this hall. We always talk about what we think about Ukraine, we always mention our grandparents, our parents, but let us not forget what we leave and who we leave. We leave our state to our children. And in order to protect them, now all the national MPs have to move away from the government's bed, sit in their jobs and think about our children, those who are the least protected in our country today, thanks to our helplessness and our inaction. So I urge all the deputies to support this bill and vote in favour. People's Front votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u92	Thank you for the fine and constructive presentation. And please, from Self-Help, National Deputy Romanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, I urge the entire room to unite over the vote for this very necessary bill for society, and at the end of the day to do something useful for the children. And once again, in Ukraine, 500,000 children live in crisis situations, 1 out of every 3 children out of poverty. We have to be responsible, this bill is balanced enough, it also introduces the responsibility of the parent who doesn't pay alimony. And if these were administrative fines before, the concept of social work, public work is now being introduced. If, for example, a person does not work, and it closes that he is unable to pay alimony, it means that he has to go to public work and work. I very much ask all factions to vote in favour of this necessary bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u94	Thank you. Please, from Peter Dustock's Block of Irina Suslov. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u95	Dear colleagues! The Peter Prashenko faction calls on all MPs in Parliament to support Bill 7277 in the first reading. Today, 1 in 5 families in Ukraine is not complete and in most cases children are raised without a father in such families. At the same time, we had a disastrous situation with alimony payments. Not only are many husbands not only interested in their children’s plight but they avoid their immediate responsibilities. As a result, a woman is not able to provide the child with the necessities of life, for she is burdened by double burdens — parenting and material support. Thus, Bill 7277 will help to discipline alimony payers and provide an additional source of funding to families who have lost their father. Dear Irina Volodymyrically, I address you as presiding officer, please, if you'd like to call our colleagues to the hall again. Dear people's deputies, please, I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u96	Thank you for your position. Please, from the Opposition Block, from the place of the People's Deputy of Doubenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u97	Thank you. Madam Chairman, honourable national MPs, Ukrainian citizens, the opposition bloc faction will support the bill, because the protection of children's rights is one of the priorities of the state, the children are our future. As legislators, therefore, we should make every effort to improve Ukraine’s current legislation on the protection of children’s rights. Indeed, there is now a problem, some artificial obstacles that actually violate the rights of the child and the failure of alimony, and the failure of one of the parents with whom the child is located to cross the border of Ukraine to leave Ukraine. Thus, of course, lack of responsibility, impunity gives rise to such a practice of noncompliance, provided for by valid legislation, duties and appropriate imposition of additional responsibility on persons who are malicious alimony underpaid, corresponding to the introduction of a more simplified procedure for crossing the state border for the purpose of leaving one parent and the child for recreation, treatment, and so forth is a prerequisite and a basis for enhancing the protection of children. So of course, I think that all the conscious MPs, all the factions, will support the stated useful initiative. We invite you, independent of political affiliation, to join it and to support the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, now the last speaker will be from the Hall of Oleg Lazko of the Radical Party. We ask the Head of the Supreme Council to meet in the Hall, and we want to thank the author of the Irina Lucenko Bill, who has made such an important and relevant initiative and all the co-authors of all the factions that have joined together. Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Lazko, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u99	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. When Irina Lucenko came to me to sign this bill, I signed it without thinking for a second. My father left my mother when she gave birth to me, my mother had no reason to raise me, she put me in a nursery. I was raised in a children's home for six years and then from 1 to 11 in boarding schools. Like me today, one in three families, without a father, parents gave birth to a child, then went to another, abandoned a woman, and abandoned a child. The State’s obligation to support and help these children, to help their parents, and to help their mothers. And it is the responsibility of husbands to be responsible when they give birth to a child. So I urge the entire parliament to vote in favour of this bill, to support the incomplete families and to create conditions for families in Ukraine to be full, happy, with a normal job and a decent salary.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u100	Thank you, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, please take up jobs, I see that not everyone is in the hall. As long as the MPs come in, please, Krivohatka, one minute from the national MPs. And please, I'll wait, come into the hall, please, take your seats. Blasphemy, one minute. Turn on the left-handed microphone, the funnel, turn on the microphone. Let's get out of the rostrum. So please come into the hall, colleagues, and invite the heads of the factions of the deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u101	I think this law was written by alimonyists, you know. Because, as soft as he is, a person does not pay alimony, a child suffers from hunger, a mother does not know why to send him to school, buy clothes, and for this he has the right not to go hunting with a gun. Do you understand? Or if he wants to make money, he has no right to go abroad and send. I think this law is too soft. In Soviet times, alimonyists went to play, and that was normal, you know. Because in the same way, a child who has been deprived of financial support from an early age is. Its direct path to crime, gang-forming and all that. And that's why I think that this law needs to be thoroughly worked out and anticipated even criminal responsibility for vicious alimonyists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u102	Thank you. One minute, Justice Minister Petrenko, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u103	Dear friends! I want to thank the Head of the Supreme Council, the First Vice-Speaker, Irina Lucenko, who was actually an ideal author of this law and put the soul in order to gather both the public and all the deputies in the hall. I repeat, it's not a political bill. It is the moral duty of society to fulfill its responsibility to children. And if this law is hard enough to read second in you as deputies, it is possible to make adjustments. We have developed mechanisms that will motivate the father to pay alimony and remember his child. You don't have money, you go to community service, you help the community, you clean the streets, you clean the cemetery, and the money goes to the kid you forgot about. Therefore, I would like to support this bill on the basis of the joint authorship of the entire Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u105	All these kids will say thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u106	And we're moving on to making a decision. And I am voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the protection of the child's right to due maintenance by improving the order of compulsory debt from alimony payments (No. 7277), on the basis of a committee proposal. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please. Vote! [[17:49:26]] For 236 Decision taken. Colleagues, pay attention! Attention! Stay where you are! Now, with the insistence of MPs, I'm going to put two short staff proposals on the mandate of Babak and Constantinowski. So, the first, the proposal, the draft of the decree that we have already discussed, is the permanent termination of the authority of the national deputy Babak Helena (6,375). Anyone who supports it, please vote. Vote, colleagues, please. [[17:50:11]] For-164 And next, the Bill of Cessation of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, 7087 Constantinowski, on his own application. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please vote. [[17:50:38]] For 181 The decision is not taken. And we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft law on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (No. 0163). And I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[17:51:17]] For-163 Decision taken. I invite the head of the government of the Public Shareholders Association of the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine, Grzenka Alexander Viktorovich. Please, Mr. Alexander. I'm just going to ask you briefly, because we have a very limited time. I'm already reporting that I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u107	Dear Head, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine! I have the honour to present to you and to request your support for the approval of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Under the agreement, credit resources amount to $150 million for 35 years and an extended period of 4.5 years. The project is aimed at lending export-oriented enterprises to small and medium-sized enterprises. The project will also have a positive impact on the Ukrainian banking system, because lending will be carried out both directly by Ukreximbank and by involving other commercial banks that will be taken away, according to the criteria of acceptability agreed with the World Bank. The project responds to national, regional and sectoral development priorities. In particular, it is based on strategic goals envisaged by Ukraine’s sustainable development strategy 2020 and the concept of cooperation between Ukraine and the World Bank. Ukreximbank will ensure the efficient use of this loan based on previous successful cooperation experience, qualified professionals and established institutional principles. This is also evidenced by four successful agreements, loans with Ukreximbank. Yeah, yeah. Who got the highest World Bank ratings. Therefore, approval of this agreement will allow US$150 million to be involved in Ukraine’s economy for long-term lending to small and medium-sized enterprises. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u108	Thank you. I'm asking you again in a concise fashion. Please, Anna Gopko. I'm asking for a cut. POB: Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopeko Hanna Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u109	Colleagues, I am very much asking to vote on the committee's decision to support this ratification right now. Please don't register now, let's vote, because there is another ratification of the Netherlands, the continuation of the agreement. Let's do these two ratifications that we're doing on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u110	My colleagues, thank you. I'm asking you to hear Miss Hanna's call. Please record: two in, two in. And it's as concise as possible. And I ask everyone to come into the hall, not to come out of the hall, but to come in. It's from Peter Dusty's Block. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u111	Sergey Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party. To say the least, we will, of course, support, but I would like the current coalition of factions in Parliament to fulfil its direct commitment to small and medium-sized businesses and introduce tax holidays for small and medium-sized businesses. We have every opportunity for small and medium-sized businesses to become the engine of the national economy to raise employment. You promised the election, you promised every election a small and medium-sized business to improve the conditions for activities, microcredit and tax holidays. Instead, you're introducing new taxes, instead you're charging them with gang duties, instead you're setting up actual crackdowns by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, by other small and medium-sized forces. And the next. I want to officially state that the Socialist Party of Ukraine is continuing its fight against the usurpation of our country by the International Monetary Fund. Today, a number of important legislative acts have been adopted that open the way for the growth of the stock market to grow the internal market. And I'm convinced that we have to rely solely on our motives, our financial resources, and dialogue with small, medium, large businesses to give impetus to the national economy. And finally, as has been done in a number of countries, to give up the International Monetary Fund's financial infamous needle. And stop responding to their dictated rules of play in the internal market, in the external markets they seek from our country. We have to be primarily an economically sovereign country and give up any form of influence of other governments and financial institutions from abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u112	Thank you. From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, let us speak briefly. The People's Front is in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u114	Thank you for your firm stand. From the Radical Party, Victor Halasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u115	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The export project was launched in 97. He was suspended for 15 years. During this time, $300 million was made. Where did the money go mostly? First, the APC. It's an agrarian complex. Also, cement, plastic. Gauls, on the other hand, had a high added value, including machine building, which remained outside the program. What are we being offered today? Today we are asked to continue with the same thing, to continue feeding the raw sector of the economy. For other raw materials, including agriculture, to have access to cheap debt credit resources on the same terms as high - tech manufacturers. Now, guess who's going to win this competition? Once again, the money will go to the agrarian. So the only right way is to limit access to these credit resources to raw materials companies. So it should only be distributed for machine building, aircraft building, shipbuilding, furniture and so on and so forth. It's as simple as a white day. Take another law that you and I passed in this room about an export credit agency. Just as he envisions supporting only high - tech industries. What's more, I've been quoting the World Bank document since July 5, 2006, please listen carefully. "Government and Eximbank insist on the importance of creating a Ukrainian credit agency and guaranteeing exports." You and I in this room have passed the Ukrainian Export Credit Agency Act, which provides for the possibility of supporting only finished products with high added value. No raw material. So we insist on returning this document, not ratifying it now, obliging the government or channeling it only to the manufacturing sector of the economy or directly through the Eximbank, or through the Expert Credit Agency, it doesn't matter. But only for real production with high added value, not everything, including raw materials, that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u116	Thank you. We're about to make a closing statement. Ah, self-help isn't there yet. Okay. Then there'll be Self-Help. And I'd like to ask the people's deputies. Please invite everyone to the hall. In three or four minutes, we'll move on to a decision. I remind you that I continued the meeting for 15 minutes. Please, Dudenkov Alexander Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u117	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! The bill is aimed at increasing the debt guaranteed by the State. What's his point? To be funded by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development through Ukreximbank for allegedly small and medium-sized business entities, a $150 million credit resource. Some may be lucky, some may get these long - term, long - term financial loans. But will it be a panacea for the state, for economic development? Of course not. Just think, from 2014, from $70 billion to $77 billion, external and domestic government debt and government-guaranteed debt increased. The State Budget Bill for 2018 proposes to set a debt threshold of $100 billion, we are already going to 100 percent of GDP, now GDP is 93 billion. It's actually bankruptcy, respected colleagues. What is needed for real support for small and medium-sized businesses? Lowering the level of tax burden, lowering the level of fiscal pressure on business, and not costing. On the other hand, if funding is needed, look at the Ukrainian State Budget Act, plus 11 billion per fiscal authority, force structures, the President of Ukraine, the President of the President's Office, the Supreme Council's Office, the Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers -- here's your resources to finance the relevant small and medium-sized investment projects. We will not support a further increase in government debt and so on from an almost bankrupt state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u118	Thank you. Now, indeed, the closing statement. Please enter the hall, not go out, but go into the hall, and there will be a vote in a minute. Please, Olena Sotnik, one minute, and we're voting, colleagues. Please invite all the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u119	Thank you. The Self-Help faction supports this bill, but we want to draw your attention. Yes, on the one hand, we're going to get funding that allows for long-term lending of ours today to small, medium-sized businesses and export-oriented sectors. Indeed, this is necessary, including from that point of view, that in fact credit resources today are abnormally expensive for business and thus make it impossible to develop. But the previous 140 million dollars were stolen, this 140 million dollars that the Bank gave to reconstruction and development. There is appropriate criminal conduct in the Attorney General's Office. There are facts that this money was actually mostly transferred to profiled structures, and as a result the local infrastructure that was to be built on these 140 million was not built. As a result, individuals have become rich. So, I think by taking new loans that we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u120	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u121	Thank you. Taking new loans, when we haven't counted on the previous ones that were actually stolen, and now we're the people who pay taxes for them for the next 17 years to pay interest. We have to give a clear answer as to where the money went and who will be responsible. And only then can we talk about some of the next possibilities of getting credit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m1.u122	Thank you, dear fellows. I want to inform you that faction leaders have come forward, have asked for further discussion of the bill. But let me put it on rating right now. I'm going to run a rating vote, I'm going to ask everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. I am conducting a rating vote to support the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank (No. 0163). I ask you to vote and I ask you to participate in the rating vote. Please support, colleagues, our international commitments. Please vote, please support. These are ratings. Please be supportive. [[18:04:25]] For – 192 Indeed, there is still a need for discussion. And so, as long as the meeting time is up, I announce that the continuation of the discussion of this bill will continue for the next plenary week. We're starting Tuesday next plenary week, actually, with this bill under consideration. On this, colleagues, I want to inform you that we have had a very busy and effective day, we have adopted a huge number of reforming progressive laws. But now I have to declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the hall to continue our work. Thank you, colleagues, good-bye.
