ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning! Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. Not all of them. The MPs come in and they come in. We're going to have to get the machine to deliver the chairs in the hall soon, and everyone's not coming in. So take up jobs. In 30 seconds, the registration will be completed. People's deputies please register. [[10:05:59]] 330 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague Denisz Dzenzerski. Let's welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] And today, colleagues, it has been 100 years since the creation of the Secretary-General of International Affairs of the Ukrainian People’s Republic, which has been the beginning of the creation of a modern Ukrainian diplomatic service. And I sincerely welcome the celebration of all the members of the diplomatic service, the defenders of Ukraine on the international front. At these moments, our diplomats are strengthening the world's anti-putin coalition, holding the diplomatic front safely. Thank you very much, friends. We are proud of you and welcome you to the festival. Welcome to our diplomats. We also welcome energy companies with a professional holiday, which give us warmth at such an important time for the country. And, colleagues, before we go to "the hour of questions to the government," I want to read out a statement that came to the fore from two factions of "The Fatherland" and "The Self-Help," they're willing to replace the break for a speech from the rostrum. And I invite you to the speech by Yegor Sobolev. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u2	"I want to bind their children with acid. I think it'll hurt the most. Let them put me in jail after that, but I don't care. But I have children and grandchildren, and I don't want them to live in the land again, which is what your son-in-law will get." This is part of the letter my wife’s parents received yesterday, my mother - in - law, and my mother - in - law. The letter is very big. I'll give it to the law enforcement authorities. The point of the letter is that I'm destabilizing the situation in the country, I'm marching, I'm an agent of the Kremlin. And so a person who knows so much about my life and puts it in this letter threatens to deal with my children. I want to tell the people, all the people in this Parliament, and not only in this Parliament, in this country: you will not do anything to intimidate the Ukrainians. There is no way to intimidate Ukraine, including me. The other one. I want to tell everyone who's spreading a climate of terror that repeats, invents, ingenuity provokes manipulation -- it's a big and scary road. A great and terrible road, which, God forbid, will be passed by someone in this land. And the third is probably the most important. I think that in the interests of all of us here, who have the opposite views and express them, the people who live in this country and can also have different thoughts and expressions, and defend them in the interests of all of us, do not cross the line. I want to wish health to all the families, all the children in our country, including the person who wrote this, her children and grandchildren, if this is a real person, as she describes it. And I want you and I to make sure that everything is okay with all the families in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u3	So, colleagues, let's move on to an hour of questions to the government. And I would like to report that at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are the Cabinet of Ministers in charge of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Volodymyr BorisovichGreysman. Hello. [[Applause]] And, colleagues, I want to let you know, today we're going to be conducting an experimentally new format: there's going to be speeches from the Cabinet of Ministers for two not 15 minutes, but 10 minutes, then there's going to be 20 minutes of questions from the factions, and then 20 minutes of questions from the people's deputies. And so we're going to see how it works today. And I'm warning representatives from the government that it's not 15 minutes, it's 10 minutes. This is the agreement that we reached during our discussions with the European Parliamentarians under the Dialogues of Jean Monnet. And so I invite you to speak to the first Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Eugene MikolaiovichNishtuk, 10 minutes. And get ready, Nephrodites. Please, Mr. Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u4	Good morning, Reverend Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, Honourable Prime Minister, distinguished members of the government, fellow national MPs! Good morning, Ukrainian citizens, all those who now see us on live TV or on the radio. Happy to be at this time, before Christmas and before New Year’s, when we are all in anticipation of a miracle. In fact, the miracle happened today, in the "hour of questions to the government": in the order of the day, two performances and the first dedicated culture, as rightly stated. It's also symbolic that the next topic of "Deregulation and Economics," which means that culture is primary, because it is a sphere of social competence and is a space of broad social communication, is a soft force and a way of increasing Ukraine's presence, and ultimately, is an important factor in Ukraine's economic development. That is why today I identify the voice of the entire government. We're the only ones in this drive to build a culture, increase its motivational base, reform the governance system. In the government's stated priorities by 2020, culture is being addressed in the context of continuous economic development, and it is impossible without the development of human capital, to which culture has a direct impact. My presentation is not intended for a detailed report, it will be published and brought to every cultural Ukrainian in the near future. I'm going to point out the priorities of our work, and to make it easier for the distinguished people's deputies to understand, I'm going to suggest in parallel, if there's a technical possibility to start videos of our cultural achievements, and that's why it's going to be a representation like from the Ministry of Culture, it's artistic. So I would like to point out that the theme that we've chosen today is culture in times of trials, culture as the foundation of capital transformations in the state. Governance in the field of culture and institutional empowerment are very important. In fact, we started a year of our own, we initiated a functional audit by the Ministry of Culture, in which we were assisted by the European Commission in implementing the EU technical assistance project "Culture and Creativity". We became a pilot project, and now 10 ministries are involved in reforming the public service. The main trends in our work are the use of new technologies in the implementation of cultural policy, the activation and implementation of creative industries as part of the country's economy, the introduction of new cultural practices in the framework of decentralization. This year, the two directorates, the next four, were reformed by scientific institutions subordinated to Mincultures. Cultural leaders are assigned to the competition, but the experience we have gained suggests that the selection process needs to be improved. And here we ask very much, taking advantage of the opportunity of honourable parliamentarians to immediately introduce and adopt amendments to the relevant laws under number 6768. Civil society and the expert environment are involved in the production of national cultural policies. No one blames the Ministry of Culture for the closure and opacity of decisions, so the expert councils are 12, I'm not going to read. But I would like to thank all the participants, the public activists who find time and help our ministry very much, they find time, and so they help the cultural process. This is the implementation of the most important constitutional principle: the source of authority is the people. What does time require of us, apart from the widespread involvement of the public and the expert community in the decision-making process? Right, the introduction of a system of equal opportunities for cultural participants. And to do that, we started creating new types of institutions. The Ukrainian Institute of Books, which is actively formed and looked forward to by our libraries, our publications, and our entire reading nation. In 2017, the National Budget of Ukraine provided 48.7 million dollars for the purchase of Ukrainian books and the replenishment of Ukrainian public library funds. Minculture was offered from 117 publications, and the list of proposed publications consisted of more than two thousand names. A public expert board on the selection of Ukrainian books to fill public library funds has selected 138 titles with a total circulation of more than 522 copies. The Ukrainian Cultural Fund began its work on January 1, 2018. Thank you to the Ukrainian Parliament for our joint victory in 2017, which will be the year of the adoption of age-related laws on State support for cinema in Ukraine and the Ukrainian Cultural Fund. Here we can say that for the first time, a process of rating online voting has been conducted for the selection of candidates from cultural institutions and public associations. Creative industries are a new way of cultural politics. Creative industries are a new focus of the Ukrainian Ministry of Culture's activities, which acquired an active phase of development in 2017. At the initiative of the Ukrainian Ministry of Culture in October 2017, the International Forum "Creative Ukraine" was held in October and became a venue for public discussion on the formation of public policy in the sphere of cultural and creative industries at political, international and expert levels. Decentralisation in culture: challenge and new opportunities. As part of the programme of cultural policy reviews in Europe, the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine hosted an expert mission of the Council of Europe from 13 to 14 March 2017, which included representatives of the ministries of culture of Austria, France, Italy, Spain, the director of the most authoritative consulting European company in the field of culture and creativity. The mission was to assess the implementation of cultural policy in Ukraine at national and regional levels and to make recommendations for addressing problems in the context of decentralization. The importance of culture for the economic and social development of communities and regions cannot be overestimated. We know how to realize the cultural rights of citizens, how to achieve equal access to resources and infrastructure, how to stimulate creativity, achieve high cultural production in the environment. And the conditions, dear nationals, we'll have to create together. We're going to put culture models in place at all levels, and then we're going to report to society on the success of decentralization. The people's cultural basket will be filled together, and then less will we hear the bloggers' betrayal! It's all gone. Population!" And people will come back to the villages and make the villages fun. Another initiative of the Ministry of Culture is the Small Cities project. The competition for this project ended on November 30, 2017, with 158 applications to participate in the project. I hope that from this rostrum in just one year from now I can announce the first success of this competition. Cultural heritage, from preservation to development. We have unlocked the State Register of Real Estate Monuments, which is the only mechanism for protecting objects that have brought to our time the value of archaeological, aesthetic, ethnological, historical, architectural, artistic, scientific, or artistic views and maintained our authenticity. Minculture is constantly informing UNESCO about the dangerous situation that has arisen in Ukraine’s temporarily occupied territory in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. A real revival of national filmmaking began. In the passing year, you, dear national deputies, laid the foundation for the violent development of Ukrainian cinema. The Ukrainian Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine has adopted the best and most effective mechanisms and tools for supporting cinematography, successfully tested in European countries. The number of public support films adopted in 2017 is 33, and two of them are animated. The number of signed contracts and contracts for the production of state support films for the following year is 32. Literally every day, they sign 5-6 new films contracts. I also wanted to point out that more than 30 films are expected for mass trek. The movie "Cyborg", which is said to have already collected 15 million people and who visited more than 220,000 people, suggests that Ukrainian cinema can be competitive. And now imagine the progress that will be made next year in this dynamic and in the expansion of funding, because we predict a billion dollars for the next year for the development of Ukrainian cinematography. A new art education, for the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine to education.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u5	Colleagues, I'll give you two minutes because the Minister has not been alerted to change our plan. Two more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u6	It's really very important, because I'd like to touch art education, and I have a request for you, and I'm going to finish. Thus, for the first time in the history of independent education, standards for artistic education have been included, musical instruments have been purchased, and educational equipment that has not been purchased for more than 30 years. For the first time in recent years, moncultures have been used to purchase musical instruments and teach equipment for about 10 million dollars. I would also like to say two words about international activity. The Minculture was held by the Year of Japan in Ukraine. Ukraine successfully participated in the Venice Biennial, Ukraine’s book market being presented in Frankfurt. The National Bureau of Creative Europe is working. In particular, I would like to say that the "Culture Against Occupation" program is continuing, the "Ukrainian East" program, and a recent project called "Pious Wars". These are songs that were born on the front and supported by our cannon musicians -- the Song of War project. Korean sages compare culture to air and water. What a great metaphor, since the amount of air, its water, we feel on our backs. We share in protecting the environment, the culture, the cultural environment, our national air, and our national sources. And I'm stressing what we're talking about right now is just the priorities of our activity. In fact, the work ahead of Minculture is much broader. It's about increasing the institutional capacity of Minculture itself and its subordinated organizations, helping them to make effective use of available resources and capabilities, adapting quickly to socio-economic challenges, and ensuring equal access to the resources that Minculture has, in particular, financial, cultural industries, and increasing global interest in Ukrainian culture. Most of all, what we tried to achieve in 2017 and what we will do next is to establish the unique role of culture and art in order-making.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u7	30 seconds. Finish it. Now, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u8	Their importance for economic and social transformations, their capacity to resist external and internal threats and challenges, because culture is undoubtedly the foundation of the nation's capital transformations. I'm sure we'll have enough strength, skills and experience. With the coming Christmas of the Lord and the New Year! Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u9	Thank you, Mr. Eugene. Thank you for the report. And I now invite you to the report of the First Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Maxim Evgenovich Nephodov. And I'll remind you, in 10 minutes. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, my fellow MPs! One of the priorities for economic development and government as a whole is to support Ukrainian business and improve the business climate. These two directions are perfectly connected. And to do that, we need two things: clear rules for business and quality control over the implementation of these rules. Both governments and parliament have been successful in working together. This is confirmed by the banal statistics. During the nine months of 2017, the volume of industrial production increased by 25 percent compared to that of the local period. Last year, 26 percent grew in metallurgy and machinery, 24 percent increased in the production of metalworking machines and presses, 34 percent in the production of machinery and special equipment. The government, for its part, is doing everything possible to make the Ukrainian business comfortable. In 2017, we held three regulatory Cabmines, where more than forty decisions were made, cancelled more than four hundred and fifty old regulatory acts that created obstacles to business development and increased business costs. It was only Monday that we had a separate industrial-deregulation Kabmin, the result of which was to stimulate Ukrainian producers, to develop production. It included, for example, a decree allowing Ukrainian chemical companies to secure raw materials, liberalizing the conditions for the use of cashiers, improving the clearing mechanism in ports, and eliminating the need to re-evaluate fossil stocks every five years. But, as the Prime Minister pointed out, it is very important at the same meeting of the Cabinet to adopt, not day - to - day decisions, but to change whole systems. So the government, along with the Office of Effective Regulation and the State Regulatory Service, began reforming the inspection system. Ukrainian manufacturers should be protected from the racket of controlling authorities and the demand of officials for money during checks should be eliminated as a phenomenon. At the same time, the control and surveillance system must be designed to provide security for Ukrainian consumers, environmental security. So far, this system is absolutely surreal. More than ninety - nine business inspections today identify violations. It actually means that we can give up checks at all and just post fines completely to every Ukrainian entrepreneur. This indicates that the rules are completely inadequate, and the verification system is completely inadequate. Also, there is no correlation between the effectiveness of the current system and, in fact, the number of violations, the risks of injured people, and so forth. We can check more, and if we have less injured, we can check less and have more. These figures are not related at all. This is a conditional steering wheel that is not connected to the wheels. The reason for this is quite banal: Since Soviet times, the activities of control authorities have been aimed at sanctioning rather than preventing wrongdoing or minimizing risks. A very illustrative example can be seen by each of us on the road. We are used to highlighting road signs, such as a pedestrian crossing, but it is not appropriate to highlight the pedestrian crossings themselves. It is important to prove that we have followed all the instructions and, unfortunately, that it is much less important to ensure real security and health. So our goal is to transform the Soviet system of supervision and control of the risk management system. Inspectors should check, not the formal requirements laid down in some outdated instructions, but the real risks. This will be of great advantage to the good - conscienceed business of dishonest competitors. What we need to do and what we are doing. It's a few fairly simple steps. First of all, it's an individual list of requirements for each type of business, from which the most important ones are defined and which we're going to encourage business, to follow. It's a very simple idea again. Not to say that business is supposed to fit legislation. Legislation is a very broad concept. It begins with the Constitution of Ukraine, ends with the subordinate orders of each body. For a normal entrepreneur, especially for small and medium-sized businesses, it's hard to figure out what's in these dozens of pages of documents, in tens of thousands of pages of documents. In parallel, we have to put in place a risk management system where inspections are carried out. That's the second part. Inspectors have to go wherever they want, not where they think they want to go, but where they want to go by alphabetical lists or, unfortunately, where they can sometimes take bribes. And they have to go where there are really very high risks. A classic example is "BRSM-Nafta." Didn't they check it out? Check it out. Has this led to a reduction in risk and averting tragedy? Sadly, no. The first step that the government has already taken and that each of you can see from your phone or tablet is a run-in pilot planning module for state oversight. During the first 10 days, more than 50,000 users visited the module. This shows on the one hand the need for business in such a tool, on the other hand, that this tool will be popular and really useful. Once again, it's 50,000 businessmen who want to know what their rights are, when a check comes to them, who comes to check that the name on the card matches what's in the permit, and what they're actually going to check, not just like that. If you have a fire extinguisher, if you have people working well for you, or if you have a clean entrance. We are convinced that the implementation of this reform will reduce corruption, reduce the budget for the inspection system and improve the safety of businesses. Business gets very simple things, it gets a specific check-list, where it can conduct self-checks. Any entrepreneur can take this check-list and see if his work meets all the requirements of legislation, and be convinced that if they come to him with a check, he will not get any punishments and violations. On the other hand, the state also gets more security because we're not just talking about business relief. And we're saying that we're going to be testing really necessary requirements. Now the inspector can check what he wants, he can close his eyes or not close his eyes. We want the system to automatically generate a list of things that we're going to test. The inspector can't check any more, but he can't check any less what generated his system. We have a clear plan for achieving this goal. The reform is calculated, the main part of it will be implemented in 2018, but we are counting on further work to continue in 2019 and in 2020 according to a strategy approved by the government on this same Monday. What will it be? When we know what risks we have, when we know, we've divided the business by risk criteria, and we've created check-lists for each test, we can continue to cyclically improve it. If we see, for example, that our tests don't lead to a reduction in fires, they don't lead to a decrease in traffic and so on, so we have something wrong with the risks, so we have to raise the criteria and watch it over and over and over again to get into a diversified risk management system. We are grateful to the Supreme Council for continuing the moratorium on checks. And we expect that this time this moratorium will be more intelligent. We're only going to test those bodies that are reforming their activities, and that's what I've already said: we've approved the new criteria for their checks and approved the check-lists. This should motivate every organ, not tell them what it is very difficult, long, impossible, and so forth. The approach is very simple: If you have not done your homework, you will not go out for a checkup or a business nightmare. Period. The government is also very grateful to the Supreme Council for its contribution to reducing the pressure on business, particularly for the adoption of Bill 7275, which is known as "the mask show stop!".. It's about systemic business protection, increasing the responsibility of law enforcement. This is a good example of how the government and all the factions of Parliament will listen to the Ukrainian business and create a legislative field that is a clear impetus for the development of companies. I'm convinced that by working together, we'll be able to bring Ukrainian production to a proper level, create loyal conditions for the development of Ukrainian companies themselves, and attract investments, both in the middle of the country, of the money that lies in the business under the mattress and outside the country, involving foreign investment. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u11	Thank you. So, colleagues, now it's a faction question block. And I ask the representatives of groups and factions to participate in the recording. This will be a guaranteed word for each faction, just sequence will determine the system. Please record the faction question, then it'll be from the MPs. Please. [[Noise Nodes]] I would like to emphasize to those who ask. The Rules state that there should be questions from factions and deputies, so there is a separate block from factions and a separate block from deputies. And I'd like to ask you a question, Sergeyyyeutushka, from the Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u12	Sergeyevtushka, the "Fatherland" faction. I have a question for Stephen Timothy Poltorak. There's a 732nd military base in the city of Sarna on the Plain. Please tell me, first of all, are you planning on equipping the base with any additional developmental measures? And the second question. Stepan Timothyovich, please tell me, is there a situation in other cities in our country that is in Sarnas when the city authorities in the person of the city and most of those deputies who are blocking the construction of the warlords, have housing for them, because the state has to fulfill the obligation to provide housing to these boys who are protecting their state? Are there other such situations in other cities and areas of Ukraine? And what are the mechanisms and ways to fight these city heads that absolutely don't understand what they have to do for these soldiers who are protecting and defending their lives in the east of our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u13	Thank you for asking. First of all, it's about a base for the storage of artillery shells in Sarnam. I want to say that there is a decision to increase the state of weapons and missiles. We go from the problems we experienced last year to the construction of underground iron concrete warehouses to prevent subversives and diversions from terrorist groups. The work is planned for 2018, thanks to the budget that was adopted, we have almost half a billion dollars to build shelters for the preservation of missiles and ammunition. What I would like to say about the second question is that there is a problem, unfortunately. And there are especially cities, such as Odessa, where we are faced with a huge problem of land-making. Unfortunately, this problem is going very badly. What can we do? As a minister, I can send a message to the mayor to think about what to do — to meet soldiers who are fighting in the East or not. But here system support is needed, the Armed Forces need systemic support to solve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u14	Thank you. From the Radical Party, the question is asked by Oleg Valeriovich Ljashka. Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u15	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We have a question from our faction to the Prime Minister. He just spoke to the Ministry of Economics, talked about deregulation, about the system of supervision and control. Important questions. But Ukrainians want to hear what the economic policy of the government is, what does the government do to overcome the poverty of the mass in Ukraine? What the government is doing to raise the income of Ukrainians, to provide jobs, to new external markets, to increase expertise, to protect a national producer. We don't see this policy in the economic bloc of government. We see the interests of importers, we see raw additives that want to transform the country. We ask for the Prime Minister's position on the future economic policy of the government, on increasing the income of Ukrainians, on protecting Ukraine's national interests, on national exporters. Enough to trade raw materials, you have to buy Ukrainian and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u16	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Honorable Oleg Valeriyovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! It's a very broad question, but not only are you, I think you'll hear the Prime Minister's position, but you can see the steps that the government, which I have the honour to lead, is taking with the support of the Ukrainian Parliament. I stress that I personally, as Prime Minister of Ukraine, have an extremely important issue of economic growth. In 2016 at this rostrum, I said that the main task for us is to stop the decline of the national economy and move on to economic growth. We've managed to rebuild the national economy together, we've got about two percent growth, but that's not enough. In the 2018 budget, we saw a rise of more than three percent. What is three percent? Three percent is more than 400 billion extra-produced by Ukrainian hands, with 176 billion Ukrainian wages. Our government is very clear about the position of raising social standards. But we clearly understand that this should depend, not on the printing press, which prints the costs, but on the development of the national economy. We came to this room for the first time with an initiative -- thank you for your support -- to double the minimum wage: up to 3,000 200. We predict an increase in the minimum wage for 2018 by 523 additional bracelets, in 2018, from 3 000 723 bracelets. We have raised your pension to Ukrainian pensioners and have opened up opportunities for a systematic increase in pensions in Ukraine. We're working now, and the PNB is considering our proposal to increase pensions for military pensioners. We have a very large number of tasks, but the driver of this is the national economy, and so we've put in place a number of important programs to support the national manufacturer. Agro-industry complex: restoration of livestock, dairy complexes, and restoration of crops in Ukraine We have an agrarian complex that forms 17 percent of the gross domestic product. We've started to work to support the power plant, and for these purposes, we're already defining one billion dollars next year. This means that Ukrainian hands will make more quality farming techniques. We're reducing the import of energy resources, we're increasing the yield of Ukrainian gas, which is improving our trade balance. Our tasks today are to modernize the coal industry, to increase the production of Ukrainian coal, not imported from abroad. Yesterday, literally, I held a working group with the participation of both the First Vice Prime Minister and the Ministry of Economics, by the way, and the heads of the Halasuka Committee on the establishment of an Export Credit Agency to support Ukrainian exports. I've only named a few of the specific things our government does, including deregulation. Including, we believe that we need to form a loan recovery policy with the National Bank, but this requires changes in legislation. We need to open up competitive, wide-ranging privatization. I stress that more than three percent of economic growth, which means hundreds of thousands and millions of jobs for Ukrainians, is completely within our reach. And so I urge the Ukrainian Parliament together to make long-awaited decisions and to ensure this long-awaited growth: economic growth in the interests of Ukrainian citizens and in the interests of our state. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u17	Thank you. You see, the dialogue between power and opposition is taking place in Ukraine. From the Opposition Block, please, Igor Shurma, a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u18	"The Opposition Block." Vladimir Borisovich, a question to you. Ukraine is literally concerned, and news of the arrest of a man who worked with you as a spy, as a member of the special forces of other states. Would it make sense to ask, who else is there that works like that? Do you know anything? But we won't ask about it. Today, from the Ministry of Special Threat, oh! I'm sorry -- the health ministries are taking short-term initiatives to eliminate the beds that lead to the reduction of people at work, the absence of vaccinations, the growth of infectious diseases leads to the fact that what you're working for will soon be no one: people will soon die. There's only four announced bids for the purchase of Crown, international purchases. I mean, nobody bought anything. But the question to you is as follows. You've been saying since April that the coalition has been conducting consultations on the role of health minister. Either there's no coalition or there's no candidature. Question is, when are you going to run for office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u19	Thank you so much for your questions. I'll answer two questions. From the point. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, two! You asked two questions, I answer two questions. As for the co-worker of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Prime Minister's protocol. So this co-worker, a staff member of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he took a rather serious business trip: he worked at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he worked overseas in diplomatic representation, he worked at the President's Administration, the Supreme Council, and the government. Actually, I want to emphasize that it's not one month. Not one month, I don't want to reveal the secrets of the investigation, not one month we knew there was a suspicion that he was working for foreign intelligence. Thanks to the Ukrainian Security Service, he's been under full surveillance for a long time, of course, with the support of the Prime Minister and my apparatus. As soon as the required amount of material was collected, it was immediately detained, and accordingly now will be investigated in terms of exactly what was happening, what data, and so on. In fact, you know what Protocol Service is: it does official events, meetings, including translation. But I would point out that he had no access to state secrets. So no serious losses, as it were, were sustained. I would like to emphasize that we need to pay attention to the war in Ukraine. And hybrid war has many manifestations. Therefore, we need to be very clear today so that in many other structures the same can be demonstrated effectively by those who can work for the respective services of other countries. Well, that's probably the end of it. You know, maybe someone would like to use this situation against me, so I want to say a warm welcome to everyone and say one thing. No matter how much you try to discredit me, I will always reveal and react in public. So, colleagues, we are fighting for Ukraine and against its enemies. And we have to express our firm support for all the special services that are engaged in counter-intelligence, which are successful. I want to thank the Ukrainian Security Service again. I emphasize that the operation took months, but there was no leak, not even a hint of a leak. This suggests that there are many honest workers in the Security Service and in our counterintelligence agencies. And as for the first question: Health care. You know, if the issue of health problems arose today, you would be absolutely right. An absolutely well - preserved health model has led to the fact that, unfortunately, the health system is in a terrible state today. And so I thank the Ukrainian Parliament for taking a decisive step in supporting new legislation, changing the system itself. And this system will allow you to change the funding system, change the treatment system for Ukrainian citizens. And I am deeply convinced that in a few years we will be able to do so. With regard to government personnel, he added. Today, there is no limit to the responsibility of the minister of health to carry out his duties fully. And I also want to emphasize that we are also implementing a number of important projects. We're building all the perinatal centers in the country today, all the hospitals that were "frozen" and not rebuilt. We're building new cardiocenters. We provide almost 15 million Ukrainian citizens with free medicine in 2018. These steps and systemic steps to change the health system itself will provide a solution to two problems: reduce mortality and prolong longevity for Ukrainians. It's not done in words, it's done in things. Join them. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u20	Thank you. From "The Rebirth Party" by Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u21	Mr. Prime Minister, I wanted to raise questions about the treatment of children. This year, thanks to both your positions and our work together, we were able to resolve the issue of deaf children -- cohlear implantation, and we were able to resolve the treatment abroad by almost 100 percent. But there are a lot of problems left, so I really wanted to ask you to continue working on this group, which we created in the summer, so that in the first quarter of next year we would still go out on 100 percent funding for the treatment of children. And question two. There's this Cherkasoblenergo organization that today provides electricity to the entire Cherkas region. Today, unfortunately, they have been employed for several months without a salary. And since January, there might be a situation that will stop all the electricity in the area completely, there's going to be a collapse. So I would very much ask you to intervene in this situation and not allow it. Thank you. These are two questions I'd like to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u22	Thank you for asking. And I would like to emphasize that you are very systematic in caring for children’s health. And thank you for that. In fact, we are working today to develop a better - quality program for treating children, especially with regard to serious diseases. So we will continue this work to find the most effective mechanisms for supporting such families and such children. As far as the skyscraper is concerned, it really needs a decision not to be made by the government. If the government had to decide, believe me, I would have taken it again, we'd have taken it months ago. The decision of the National Electricity Market Regulatory Commission is needed. And this commission is an independent body of government. Parliament has now adopted amendments to legislation that have entered into force and have been signed by the President quite recently. And now the President has been given the right to regroup this commission individually, and the commission has to make a decision and settle issues, including allowing the issue of debt on salary. So we keep this in mind, we understand the problem. It's a shame that it ever came into existence, and there are cases like this in Ukraine. But I would point out that if it were in the power of the government, we would have decided that before yesterday. We were thinking about how to find a nonstandard solution. There is no legal solution if the government decides and solves this problem. So we will wait for the decision of the National Commission and, of course, speed up the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u23	Thank you. From the People's Front question. Kodola, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u24	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency, People's Front faction. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, in Czernigov, the State Science and Testing Center of Ukraine is working together. This is a very serious expert state institution that runs a complete set of tests of new and modernized weapons, military technology, dual-purpose products. This center was transferred from Crimea in 2014, while retaining all scientific and human resources expertise, scientific potential. At the same time, in Montenegro, with the joint efforts of local authorities, national deputies were prepared to provide an adequate material basis for its existence. And I've already been addressing you, and I'd like you to support the military for the next year with this science-testing housing center and to provide the appropriate funds for the purchase of apartments for these very heroes who are working in Montenegro today and are unique to the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u25	Thank you for asking. Just as you asked, we had a brief meeting with the Defense Minister. And he said that he heard your question and would do anything to anticipate a solution to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u26	Thank you very much. From "Peter Prashenko's Block" Mamchure. Please, Julius Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u27	Julius Mamchure, Peter Dustock's Block. I have two questions. First, to the Prime Minister. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I have recently been approached by a large number of military pensioners, veterans of the Armed Forces, veterans of the power structures for the non-recalculation of pensions for about 10 years. Please clarify the situation, how will this matter be resolved? Because people are all their own, the best years away for serving Ukraine and their pensions are quite minimal. And the second question is to the Ukrainian Defence Minister. There has been a trend towards the departure of flight personnel from the Ukrainian Armed Forces. How do you plan to eliminate this problem, dearest Stephen Timothy? What material and perhaps social aspects need to be improved so that prepared pilots do not leave the Armed Forces? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u28	Thank you for asking. With regard to pensions for military personnel. As a government, as I promised, we moved immediately after the reform of the general pension system to the formation of a new pension system for military personnel. What you said was that 10 years has not been counted, so take every aspect of our lives: for 10 years or more, finger-to-finger has done nothing to change the situation in the country. In many, friends, spheres, in many, beginning with infrastructure, ending with social issues, starting with social issues, and ending with infrastructure issues. We have drawn up a framework for this law, this system that envisions pension increases, the modernisation of pensions for more than 550 thousand military pensioners. We can see that there is an average retirement rate of at least one and a half thousand dollars next year. Clearly, those with combat benefits are combat pensions, they'll be much higher than one and a half thousand, i.e. they'll have to be given a fair, differentiated approach. We've prepared this framework, we've sent it to the National Security and Defence Council, because all military issues, including the budgeting of the defence sector, all of this is happening in agreement with the MPO. Moreover, all representatives of the force structures are members of the MPB, and this could be a good place for us to discuss final decisions. I insist that if this law is not adopted in January6 or February, that the recalculation of pensions take place from January 1, 2018, and the military pensioners, as promised, receive their promotion. So now we're going to have this discussion work and this professional work, and we're going to continue to come up with proposals together, maybe I think they're going to be submitted by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u29	Thank you. And the final question from the factions: Sidorovich Ruslan from Self-Help. And we're only going to have 15 minutes to ask the MPs. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u30	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. I have a question for the whole government, but not just the Self-Help faction, I think it's a question from the entire Ukrainian people. The 2018 budget provides tens of billions of dollars to support structures such as the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office, the police. But what do these organs do? For example. Yesterday, our faction was detained in Zaporozhye, and yesterday an entirely premeditated suspicion was presented, which is about nothing. This is another example of the use of the law - enforcement system to combat political opponents or mythical enemies. Along with what we see today? We don't see any top-corruptioners being held accountable. We do not see those who are held responsible for the crimes committed in Maidan. We don't see a lot of other cases that have been torn apart in different ways.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u31	30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u32	We don't see the completion of other famous things that are very plentiful in the media, including as a sad rector who's finished. How do we control the use of tens of billions of dollars on our law enforcement system?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. And I'll probably start by saying that tens of billions, you're right, are spent on the defence sector and the security sector. And in principle, the functioning of the National Police, the National Guard, other law enforcement structures are completely state mechanisms that are present in every democratic country. And that's why I sincerely support, and I've repeatedly spoken from this rostrum, the Nazi Guards who are fighting or protecting our border in the East, our military, who are today defending the territorial integrity of our country and restoring territorial integrity in that area, which is temporarily uncontrollable. I'm in charge of a search, boys who don't sleep at night, so those thieves who rape, rob, detain. I support the operating units that the raiders are laying on the floor. face down to the floor, and they won't let any of the businesses take over. I support a counterintelligence that not only delayed your party officer yesterday, but also a security officer from Ukraine, who also worked for the security services of other countries. I support all those who protect Ukrainian citizens. And I condemn and despise those law-enforcement officials who put on chases and pressure on business or create some kind of corrupt device. So, what I'm saying is that in that system, their absolute minority, they have to be found and cleaned up, and everyone else needs to be supported, so that people are safe on the streets, so that those who walk in Ukrainian police stations have respect for society and support from the authorities, including parliament. Because it is he who walks the streets tonight, walks the streets patrolling, detaining, harming neither his health nor his life. I think these guys also have girls, and they have the will to make this world a better place. So let's distinguish the grain from the shell, we're going to fight the shell together, and we're going to plant the seed in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u34	Give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u35	And we're going to plant the seed, plant it in normal soil, so that the democratic and qualitative Ukrainian state can grow. Don't paint them all in one black paint! In our countries, there are heroes, and there are villains, and there are villains -- shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u36	Colleagues, on Mamchure's question, I understand the Secretary of Defense hasn't answered yet. Yeah? Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u37	Thank you for asking, first. And second of all, I'd like to say that, in fact, military pilots today are highly professional and very well prepared. Today, the level of training in higher education institutions that train military pilots is even higher than the norms that the Soviet Union has had, the hours of the students we're releasing, already higher than the Soviet Union. As for those who want to win, take our pilots to themselves, offer a salary of $10,000 when he gets a thousand, of course, that's the temptation. But only by addressing the systemic problems of social protection and maintenance of military aircraft will we solve this problem. In the following year, the construction of housing for military and social services and a new regulation that normalizes and regulates the payment of cash will provide for a risk allowance and a level of readiness to carry out combat tasks.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u38	Thank you. So, colleagues, now the question from the people's deputies, because today, for the first time, we've actually said that the questions are going to be in two blocks: both from factions and from deputies to 30 minutes. In 30 minutes, I'd like to emphasize. It's 15 minutes for questions from the National MPs. Who wants to ask a question to the government, please record it. Please, Katzer-Buchkowska, ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u39	Good afternoon, fellow workers, good afternoon, distinguished government! I have a question for the Prime Minister. Vladimir Borisovich, yesterday the Supreme Council passed the Law on Commercial Gas Accounting, which is in principle a major step towards energy efficiency, energy dependency, and will also be able to eradicate one of the biggest corruption schemes in energy. But this decision needs implementation, and before the energy efficiency reform is completed, we need to continue to document subsidies, and this will enable us to personalize the receipt of these subsidies, as well as to establish a natural gas consumer subscription database and solve gas distribution issues. Please tell the MPs at which stage of making these important decisions for the State and whether you can make a voluntary decision by the end of the year to complete energy efficiency reform, to get rid of corruption schemes and to take a big step towards energy independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u40	I want to say right away, thank you to the Ukrainian Parliament for making very important decisions, particularly in the field of energy security. I want to assure you that everything that depends on implementation, on government, we will adopt as quickly as possible to implement the laws that Parliament approves. I'd like to say a few words about the systemic approach to ensuring our energy security. The fact that we've moved on to increasing Ukrainian gas yields is a very positive signal. But thank you to the Ukrainian Parliament for having adopted in the first reading Law 3096, which completely regulates this area, and I am convinced that in the near future it will be adopted definitively. I think our initiative to reduce rent for new gas is a 12 percent and a 6 percent initiative is another systemic step forward. The government is today preparing a whole series of legislation that regulates issues in gas extraction. In addition, you and I have increased, and this is supported by Parliament, the Energy Efficiency Fund from 400 million, from 800 million to 2 billion in 2018. We've also started for the first time since January 1st in the history of our independence the monetaryization of subsidies for manufacturers. That's another step. We've also approved a new warehouse, only on December 15th, a new NAC Supervisory Board, Naftogaz Ukraine, has started to work more effectively to create a transparent gas market in the country. We have ambitious plans, and we need to modernize the coal industry, we need to reduce imports of coal from other countries, and we need to increase the production of our H coal. To do that, we're taking completely systematic steps to modernize the TEC to burn energy coal. So the whole set of measures that we're doing today is going to strengthen our energy dependency, and everything that's related to implementation, we're going to do it on time and as fast as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u41	Thank you. Sergey Sobolev gives the floor to Sergey Mishchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u42	Sergei Mishchenko. Vladimir Borisovich, I was asked this question by other majority deputies. So it has happened that in the last two months a large number of people have come to all our receptions. You also receive thousands of letters, I'm sure, with only one question: "What did we do? What have we been treated for?" After the so-called pension reform, which is the gentle word in this pain, the people who have huge internships, but the soviet salaries, especially in rural areas, the colporteurs have been working in the workplace, the residents of small towns have received taxes, and some are nothing at all, and these are millions of pensioners. And you know that only 9 percent of people are satisfied with pension reform? And I already know where these nine percent live. After a final analysis of the country, I will present this information, and the Ukrainians will have a shock. How will you correct this abuse? But the words "Azir's" "we've got a better life" or "get a shovel."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u43	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u44	or "take a shovel and dig" or "go away" won't work now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u45	Mr. People's Deputy! To be honest, he didn't communicate closely, or maybe he didn't even communicate with Prime Minister Azarov. Perhaps you can see how he expressed himself there, but people need to be respected. That's the first one. I think even bringing such examples to the Ukrainians is absolutely untactical and unethical. Perhaps people and someone are called a scoundrel, and rightly so, but I think it is worthy of you always, whatever position you take, to have the right to look at people in the eye and not to turn them away. Everything I do, I try to do with my conscience, and I never make empty promises that I cannot keep. As a result, I always remember to look people in the eye. I advise everyone to keep this in mind. As for the pension system, or its change, and not the so-called, just pension system that just started and gave us the opportunity to increase pensions for Ukrainians. These taxes, which have been for decades to Ukrainians: 50 bucks, 100 bucks -- that was humiliation, depression. Now the new system has opened the way for the restoration of justice. And there are only two criteria: the job experience and the person who got the salary, and from which the salary was calculated. And that's why almost 9 million Ukrainian pensioners out of 12 got a recalculation. Yeah, you're absolutely right, and I've been talking about it since day one, someone's got 100 bucks, someone's got 200, someone's got 500, someone's got 2,000, and someone's got a double pension. And I wouldn't look at geography, because in Ukraine, they're all the only ones. And if the Ukrainian miner worked his whole life in the dungeon and got a double promotion today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u46	One more minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u47	He just earned it, and we had to give it to him. And you're absolutely right to raise pensions for those who had an unfair pay system: our employees who worked for the working hours, those people who got low wages, especially in the countryside. You're right. But we don't have to talk about what we did wrong, we've taken the first fundamental step forward. And then the next step we have to take is to raise pensions for people who have a lot of experience and low wages. And now we're working on it, and we're going to do everything we can to support these people and give them what they deserve. And I want to emphasize that almost 5 million people have been raised by more than 400 dollars, but that's just the beginning. The next census of pensions for Ukrainian citizens will take place in 2019, not as politicians once did: they gave taxes, they wanted to give, they wanted to give, they didn't give. And it was especially the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u48	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u49	I initiated a pension reform, not an election, but to give due respect to Ukrainian citizens. And thank you all for supporting her. I think those who have supported will always be free to look people in the eye, and everyone else will get a promotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u50	Thank you. Next question is Svetlana Petrovna's replacement.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u51	Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister. I have a few questions. First question. As head of government, you signed a memorandum with an international currency fund that envisions the establishment of an Anti-Corruption Court. We already have the end of 2017, and unfortunately, this law is not even registered. We talked to the International Monetary Fund, representatives in Ukraine who are criticizing Ukraine and saying that financial aid will not be without this tool. What is your reaction to this? And the second question is: yesterday a government official, a finance minister, made a statement that the Attorney General is allegedly having a "sublime conversation" with a former owner of Private Bank about the possible avoidance of the ownership of PrivateBank for the withdrawal of money from a nationalized bank, which has many people. What is your reaction to this question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u52	Thank you so much for asking. The first thing I'd like to comment on is a memorandum from the IMF. Since the first day as Prime Minister of the country, and as Head of the Supreme Council, including with you, I have supported and supported the creation of all anti-corruption infrastructure. Today we have legislation that is strict enough in terms of corruption and accountability for corruption, we have all the anti-corruption infrastructure. This is about Naboo, SAP, DBR, NAZK, and so on. We don't have another effective element, a fair trial. And I said that it wasn't necessary to have a discussion: to create a chamber or a court, I'm confirming it again, but I had to create an independent anti-corruption institution. Whether it was an independent chamber that was independently appointed with an independent budget, not subordinated to anyone, or would be. It's going to be a court, it's going to have to be accepted, and it's going to be immediate, and not looking at whether we're going to get international support or not. Corruption is evil. Not because it's popular to say it, but because it takes away opportunities for normal life in the country. And the point is. And my job is not to create an anti-corruption court -- it's outside my jurisdiction -- but I'm going to do everything I can to make sure that we have proper funding, proper premises and quickly set up the work of this court. And all you've heard about the initiative is the President's initiative to submit this bill in accordance with the Constitution and its constitutional powers. You will support him, I will support him, and I am deeply convinced that we need to create quickly. And put a dot on the issue of corruption in the country. There will be no verdicts, there will be corruption, and everyone knows that. And sometimes it's embarrassing to just meet people, meet with our international partners when they talk about what should have been left behind in such a bitter past. As far as our position is concerned, my position is as follows. What must we do to combat corruption? We need to take away the basics of corruption. We need to privatize state companies, their corporations.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u53	One minute. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u54	And it's important to do that, and this is where the Ukrainian Parliament needs to support us. We need to do other things to deregulation: get the state involved in real economic activity. We have to make laws like we did with you. "Mask-show stop!"and many other things that will not allow corrupters to pressure the economy and citizens. So my support is 100%, and I'm going to do everything I can to get the law implemented quickly. Write that down and then ask me. And second position. Second position is on Private Bank. "Private Bank," as you know, was nationalized last year. I've come out of the interest of several tens of millions of Ukrainian investors, and today there's good news that Private Bank is not a threat, it works absolutely rhythmically. We have created an entirely independent supervisory board of Private Banks, which forms a legal position on the promotion of public interests, including claims against legal owners of the bank itself. I'm inclined to think, and that's foreknowable.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u55	30 seconds. How much??
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u56	I'm sorry, I'm ready to stay for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u57	All right, go ahead. Does everyone care?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u58	Come on, I'll let you finish on this. Not for 10 minutes, colleagues, no. I'll tell you how much. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u59	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm sorry. But important questions, two of them. I follow the thinking and principle of international lawyers: When lawyers work, politicians remain silent. Because every word that is not or will not be said under that sauce will then be used against the State of Ukraine in the Court of London. That's as far as I'm concerned. If I'm wrong, let the lawyers deny it. And second position. I'm deeply convinced that state institutions have to stop, they have to stop flashing intelligence on television. Wars between state institutions need to be stopped, and I am convinced of that. Everyone has their authority, work! Work for the State, work for its success, be united. Moved -- go to jail, you got some cool stuff in there -- take responsibility for it before the law. That's why I'm just calling everyone today to stop showing off on TV, and you don't have to blame each other for anything. It will be the Anti-Corruption Court, it will give each one its own, it will give its own assessment. Whoever is guilty, let him remain in prison, and this will be absolutely just. So, colleagues, I urge everyone to do their job and not prevent lawyers from defending the interests of the Ukrainian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u60	Thank you. So, colleagues, two more questions. - Goose Igor, please, it will be now. And the final one will be Bakumenko to prepare. Please, Igor Gus.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u61	IgorGoose, 19th constituency. Colleagues, get away from the Prime Minister. You ask questions, you go around. Vladimir Borisovich, before the budget was adopted, I asked you what are we going to do about Volin miners? You gave me an incomprehensible answer that we're going to be dealing with this in 2018. I told you your minister, your Nasalik, hadn't come to Volin in a year and a half. I want to tell you, nothing is done by the government, unfortunately, nor the financing of the tenth mine, nor the strategy, nothing! I know when you start spinning. You'll start spinning when the Volin miners begin their peaceful march on Kiev! It's getting ready. So just so it doesn't happen, I'm asking you to immediately send Gor-Nasalik to Volina to deal with the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u62	Thank you so much for your question. Government, I think that the Ukrainian coal industry was systematically stagnating, and this has to be completely fair. I understand that this is your district, and I understand that you're fighting for your constituents because you want to change for the next term. I don't have any here, I respect that, it's perfectly normal. And that's why you speak so highly of it. I know it hurts, and it hurts. But what do you do when the market price of coal is, let's say, 2,000 dollars, or 2 and a half, and they get it in 5, when private mines get it even with profitability? That means there's inefficiency, there's no investment. And the main thing is that miners don't have anything to do with it. They're hostages of this statelessness. And in fact, last year, from the state budget, we've been directing hundreds of millions of dollars, billions of dollars of money or wages, and we've paid off the debt that comes from non-profit production. So you're right about modernizing the sector. We have foreseen two mechanisms: a billion three hundred million to support and modernize mines and another billion dollars of state guarantees for modernization. And now we need to avoid eating these costs, as we've always done, but we need to get these funds up to date. I support the fact that the Novovolinsk tenth mine needs to be upgraded, it can be effective. So out of this billion 300, we need to allocate a serious resource, and we can do that in order to start the process of completing it. I'm told it's 500-600 million dollars. If so, it becomes a reality. And I'm going to send a delegation led by Minister Nasalik to you, to Volin, for a completely real professional conversation about what exactly we have to do in 2018. If these actions are not done.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u63	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u64	If these changes are not made, we will continue to pay just the difference in wages, and so it will remain, sorry, unstructured and many mines are not modernized. So I understand the pain, I understand the problem, and I'm going to do everything I can to change the evolution of the coal industry. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u65	Thank you. And final question Bakumenko Alexander Borisovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u66	Dear Mr. Head, I ask you to give the floor to Mr. Melnick, National Deputy, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u67	Please. Happy, if necessary, continue. Oh, no, Bird, yes, if you have to continue, I'll add time. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u68	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u69	What happened?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u70	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, we, a group of national deputies over 20, have been associating with you for a year about the allocation of funds for the road Zitomir – Hmelnicki, Hmelnicki – Kamyanec – Podilski, Kamyanec – Podilski – Černivci. You said I don't make promises I can't keep, but I'll do anything. You did that: a billion dollars today. And we've brought this information to our voters. They asked you to take this under personal control and to welcome you with the New Year’s coming, Christ’s Christmas, and to desire health, the power to work for the benefit of our nation. We work together and do a lot of good things together. And it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u71	Thank you. Colleagues, the Birddog question. I thought the Birdman passed it on. And that's going to be final. And, Vladimir Borisovich, if there is a need for a final word, I will continue my response. Please, Mrs. Victoria. Turn on the microphone. Veselova referred the question to the birdcatcher. [[B in m in s a l in]] Switch the microphone from the Wessels MP to the Birdsman. [[B in m in s a l in]] Maybe you don't have a card? Look at the card.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u72	You swapped cards, girls. Pay attention! Well, you can't do that, come on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u73	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, this week the Economic Policy Committee has completed its preparation for the second reading of the privatisation bill. We fought for amendments that would make the privatization process more transparent and effective. Many representatives and the Cabinet of Ministers and the Maintenance Fund participated. And what I'm going to tell you is that the people of the holding fund have been overly involved in some cases, and they haven't always advocated transparent amendments by the people's deputies. However, given what is currently being prepared to privatize the IPF, then the Centrenergo, and we don't have the head of the Holding Fund with you at the moment, I want to ask you how do you feel about this situation that we're preparing for global privatization without the head of the Holding Fund? And when are you planning on running for office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u74	Thank you so much for your question. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the government has introduced a privatisation bill, not a strategically important sale, but a competitive, transparent and efficient, state-owned company. Let's put a dot in this corruption of state companies. So let's just take 226 votes in January, and we can do it openly. What's more, I invite all the deputies to form a supervisory board, I'm willing to approve it, whatever it is, over the privatization process, so that everyone can track it to make it public, and you've seen it, literally 10, 20 people. Please, I'll do it and I'll be interested, just so you can see it, and under your watchful eye, it's all happening, and we could look the public in the eye. So I would very much like to adopt this bill with the most transparent amendments made by the committee. And Andrey Volodymyrovich Ivanchuku especially thank you for finishing this job as quickly as possible, and for all the members of the committee who have worked very hard on this law, together with our government team. So hopefully one of the first laws will be passed is this law. As for the checker, you know, I think I put it in. Well, in no way does it affect speed, and maybe even vice versa, because you feel a sense of responsibility: step to the left, to the right -- and you're going to get rid of it right away. However, discussions are under way today, and as soon as there is a willingness to submit and a majority of votes in favour, I will definitely do so. And now there is a full - time responsibility to carry out its duties. And if he does something not in the interests of the state, he'll go to another job right away, even on the same day, and maybe in the nearest government, it's not a huge problem. Thank you. And I will ask everyone for the support of the Privatisation Act, a very important law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u75	Thank you. A closing word?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u76	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u77	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u78	And let me do that if I close the word. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Honourable Andrija Volodymyrovich, Irina Volodymyrno, Oksano Ivanovno, distinguished colleagues of national deputies, distinguished colleagues of government! Today is the last plenary day of this year, and I just want to thank you today for 2017, for your fair criticism. Sometimes when it's unfair, I take it, too, because all you're saying is, I'm analyzing and I'm always taking it personally so that I don't make mistakes and do something better. We've actually lived with you for quite a year, but, in large numbers, we've managed to make a lot of plans. And when we talked about the fall of reforms, maybe very few people were convinced that we would be able to carry out educational reform, and the reform of the pension system, and make decisions about health reform, and government procurement, and deregulation, and trust services that develop the id sector, ID, I mean identification, and this is a completely new step forward, and many other decisions that were extremely important. What's important now? 2018 will also be a difficult year, but in fact, we can get a significant economic growth with you that Ukrainian citizens will experience. And I think that's why we're essentially trying to go somewhere very often. Perhaps someone forgets, at times, when choosing, what he really has to do. But we all remember that our positions are not long - term, but only our affairs should be long - term. We're leaving, and it's very important that no one in our back ever curses us, I mean right. Because, you know, those who will always say something, that black is enough, but it's important that we look people in the eye. And that's why I want to urge all of us today that, with the start of the new plenary week, let's continue to be united, let's continue to make state decisions, let's keep going, let's keep going, until the start of the electoral campaign, political flags, and the flag will be the only one we'll have -- the state flag, the Ukrainian flag, and we'll make Ukraine economically strong, people rich to make it easier for people to live. This is a very important task for us. And in this context, I want to thank my colleagues, the Peter Dust Block and Arthur Gerasimov, the faction manager. Thank you so much, Arthur, for your cooperation. "The People's Front," distinguished colleagues, thank you so much for your cooperation, and Maxim Burbak, the leader of the faction. Maxim, thank you so much. Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko, I want to thank you for your criticism, for the suggestions that are being made at the government's address, the remarks, but I want to thank you for your state's position. I think, in all that effort and effort, you always take a state position that makes Ukraine better, so thank you and your faction for the difficult discussions, but for supporting important decisions. Thank you, Oleg Valeriovich. My colleagues, I want to thank you, colleagues from Fatherland, and all those who are constructive about making the necessary decisions, and colleagues from Self-Help. Unfortunately, there are no colleagues in the Opposition Block, I don't remember them helping to support anything. But what I'm saying, my friends, is that you have a chance in 2018 to become better and to bring well-being to the Ukrainian economy and to the Ukrainian state. The Rebirth Group and Victor Bondarou, the leader, we thank you, colleagues, for your support. The will of the people group, Jaroslav Moskalenko, also very much thank you, and hopefully next year, let's show everyone that we're real patriots, that we're normal people, that we're not pagans, and people who walk on earth understand what people live by, what problems they have and how they need to be solved. The government team, I thank you, too, dear colleagues, for putting up with me and for trying to do your job well. And once again, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, thank you for that. Thank you, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, and to the non-fractional people's deputies, from whom I should also say thank you. I'd call everyone by name, but I'm afraid to forget someone, so everybody, colleagues. And the main thing is, thank you to the Ukrainian people, that's true, to the beautiful Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] Thank you for both of us, and thank you for your criticism, and thank you for supporting us, and thank you for expressing your gratitude at any time. Most of all, we're not creating a national product with you, we're creating Ukrainian citizens, ordinary workers, entrepreneurs, workers, railways, metallurgy, miners, aviation representatives, teachers, doctors, peasants. Dear Ukrainians, I think everyone is aware today in this room that we have huge debts before you. I want everyone, and to myself, let's give people their debt, let people live better in 2018. Thank you very much again, and we wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u79	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u81	It wasn't a simple fall, it was a difficult fall, but we were able to make extremely important decisions. Vladimir Borisovich, I want us to thank both the Prime Minister of Ukraine by Parliament and the ministers who have worked and reformed each other in their own field and in their own chain. Thank you and wish you success next year. I just want to remind you that we're not finished with the session yet, we're still going to have a plenary week in January. Then we will summarize, but I want the government, all of us, colleagues, we have an active and fruitful work in the new year. Thank you, good luck. [[Applause]] And now we're going to read the MPs' questions, and a lot of them have accumulated over the past two weeks, and we're going to try today to get all the MPs' questions read. And I give the word to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u82	Thank you, Mr. Head! Dear colleagues, indeed, cannot leave their debt in the new year. So now we're going to publish all the questions, 302 of them. That's why there won't be any statements of dissatisfaction with the answers to the questions today. We have a few questions for the President of Ukraine. As you know, first you have to vote by name, support the request. And I now ask my colleagues not to disperse and support Victoria's request to the President of Ukraine to delay signing the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on corporate agreements (registration number 4470), adopted on 23 March 2017 and sent for the signature of the President of Ukraine on 3 April 2017. Please make up your mind. [[11:33:29]] For-42 It's very difficult with potential today. So it doesn't go away, unfortunately, your request. Jury Pavlenko to the President of Ukraine on the accumulation of negative trends in adoption and the development of family forms of education for orphans and children deprived of parental care; the initiation of the All-Ukrainian Council on the Protection of the Rights of the Child in situations of armed conflict and complex socioeconomic transformation. I'm asking you to support this request, colleagues. [[11:34:09]] For-44 It doesn't take up the necessary amount. Jurija-Bogdan Suhević to the President of Ukraine on the registration of an immediate presidential bill on the abolition of a terrible pension injustice, which has affected most ordinary, "black" Ukrainian citizens every month of their official work since 2000 to reduce their pension. Please be supportive. [[11:34:45]] For-50
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u83	Regrettably, it does not take up the necessary amount. I move on to questions, my esteemed colleagues, to other institutions of power and institutions from all of our colleagues. Sergey Shahova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal closure of the criminal conduct of the DNIP in Zaporozhye region, which led to the avoidance of the responsibility of the director of the TV "Energomashwin". Sergey Shahova to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the immediate release from office of the Director of the State Institute of Education, Sevjerodonetske VPU, Kuzminova Yuri Kindratović for violations of financial and economic activity, secessionism and pro-Russian moods. Viktor Razwadowski to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir Observatories for the allocation of funds for the operational treatment of the replacement of the ball joint of a participant in the ATO, disabled by Group II Katyusi Petra Anatoliyovich, a resident of the city of Amazing Žitomir district. Viktor Razwadowski to Deputy Henprokuror, Chief Military Prosecutor, for the verification of the actions of the officials of the Žitomir Forest and Hunting Department, because of the circumstances that took place near the military section of the Vakulenchukovo garrison of the Wonderland, Žitomir district. Andrija Lozov to the Prime Minister for the organization of payment for the work of the Kharkiv National Opera Theatre and the Lisenko Ballet, according to the status given. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Ionova, Frez) to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the use of measures to prevent violations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations by persons present at plenary meetings of the Supreme Council. Alexander Marchenka to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the inaction of police and prosecutorial authorities during the pretrial investigation. Sergija Eutushka to the temporary duty of head of the State Geology and Nadr Ukraine to violate the requirements for the use of "Truskavetskurt" nadrama, particularly in the development of the mineral water supply "Naftusia". Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the need to improve the procedure for the administration of custody and care for activities related to the protection of the rights of the child, approved by Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (No. 866). Anatolia Denisenka, until the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to ensure that children’s hospitals in Ukraine are provided with medical equipment for the timely conduct of hearing screenings in newborns and early children. Vladimir Misick to the director of the public limited liability association for the restoration of telephone and Internet communications since 20 October 2015, as well as other services for residents of houses Nos. 58 B and No. 46 on the street of the Valentinov city of Kharkiv. Vitalia Kurila to the head of the Pension Fund’s government on the issue of pension insurance to persons who have moved from temporarily uncontrollable Ukrainian authorities to territories but who have not been granted the status of internally displaced persons. ValentinaNiciporenka to the Prime Minister for explaining to pensioners the positive and negative aspects of the current pension reform. ValentinaNiciporenka to the Prime Minister for the review of the project Ongoing Development Strategy and Institutional Reform of the Forest Economy of Ukraine until 2022. Michael Bondar to the Public Shareholders Association of the Private Bank Commercial Bank for the transfer of non-residential property used by Private Bank as administrative property to the community of Busk Lviv district. Michael Bondar to the Radehov City Head, head of the Radehiv District State Administration of the Lviv Region for the opening of the hemodialysis station at Radehiv Central Hospital in the city of Radehov, Lviv district. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding State aid to the families of the dead. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers to compensate families for the loss of a breadwinner as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. IgoryaGuza to the Prime Minister for financing of the “ministerial experiment” of repairing the section of the territorial road T 0302 (Volinsk Region). IgoryaGusa to the head of the President's Administration on the question of assigning the title "Hero of Ukraine" to a former military officer of the military field post at B2950 Filipchuku Igoru. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister for confirmation that Holmowski is in the occupied territory of Ukraine. IvanaKulka to the Prime Minister on the need to increase the amount of medical subsidies and additional state budget subsidies to pay salaries to the employees of the Zitomir medical institutions and the Ivanichov district of Volin Region and to provide for the costs of heating supplies. Borislava Bereza to the Prime Minister for the reconstruction of the Dniprovsky Towers housing complex. Borislav Bereza to the head of the Kyiv City Administration for the restoration of the animal shelter in the Righteous region of Kiev. Vladislav Buhareva to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister on the need to secure funding from the State budget of Ukraine in 2018 of higher education institutions I, II levels of accreditation in the Sumski region, as well as other higher education institutions I, II levels of accreditation throughout the state. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister on the need for public review through a broad public discussion of the Permanent Development Strategy and institutional reform of the forest economy of Ukraine for a period of up to 22 years. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister on the request for documents and information to prepare a court for failure to comply with the Ukrainian Child Protection Act in the area of protection of children in the war zone and children who have suffered as a result of armed conflict. RomanaMatzoli to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science, acting as State University of Infrastructure and Technology to address the issue of education at the expense of the ATO participant's budget, according to the law in force. Romana Matzoli to Deputy Henprocuror, Chief Military Prosecutor, on the use of measures to effectively investigate the conduct of criminal investigations into the death of a military officer. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on the need to review the request of the Public Organization of the "Communication of Children of the occupation of German-Fashistic invaders of the city of Odessa and the Odessa region" on the need to address the situation that has arisen in connection with the difficult material situation of the elderly, who have the status of children of war. DmitraSpenov and Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister on urgent measures to restore women's right to retire at 55 years of age without reducing their pension. Vassilijanicko to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Ravenna District Government, to solve the problem of paying salaries to health workers at the health centre "Dubrovica Central District Hospital" of the Dubrovnik District Council of the Plain Region. Vassiliyanic to the temporary duty of head of the State Department of Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, head of the General Administration of the State of the Odessa Region to comply with the requirements of legislation when agreeing on documentation with the land administration, to make an unhindered state registration of the land of citizens in the Odessa region. Vasjunika's Igor to the Prime Minister on the need to develop and approve the Universal Purpose Program for the transfer of hostels to the property of territorial communities. Valery Davidenk to Deputy Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko on a fair pay for the employees of the National Historical and Cultural Reserve of Gethtman Capital. Valeria Davidenka to the minister of ecology and natural resources for environmental security in the city of Montenegro. SergiaLyvočina to the Prime Minister on the low level of social protection of people with disabilities. Sergija Melnika to the director of the regional branch of the South West Railway, head of the Hmelnicki Town Council for the construction of a pedestrian crossing in the area of Kaczynskih Street of Hmeljnickýk, 1227 km pc. 7 district of Žmernica-Pedvoločisk at the station of Greece. Sergey Melnik to the Human Rights Council, Head of the Security Service, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Head of the State Border Service for the Liberation of Detained Armed Forces of the State Border Service of Ukraine. Vladimir Aresonkova to the head of the State Water Agency for the operation of highway draining systems in the Orutsky region of the Žitomir region. Jurija-Bogdan Shuhević to the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Council, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Human Rights, the National Minorities on urgent consideration in the second reading of Bill No. 1170, which annuls the non-constitutional provisions of the current legislation on the assignment of compensation not for the entire period, but only in 75 months of unlawful deprivation of liberty and payment of this partial compensation in a deplorable amount of 25 copies per day of illegal imprisonment. Maxima Polakov to Prime Minister, Attorney General for Energy Stability in the Cherkas region. SergiaLabazuka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General's Office, the Hmelnicki District Prosecutor's Office, the National Police Directorate in the Hmelnicki district for the illegal privatization of the Hmelnicki hostel. SergiaLabazuka to the Ministry of Defence on the return of Ukraine's Ministry of Defence to state ownership. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister for the application to the employees of the Kharkiv National Academic Theatre of the Opera and the ballet of the name of Lysenka, the coefficient for payment of work according to the assigned status of the National. Valery Pisarenko to the Prime Minister for not allowing the local budgets to be removed in the form of a reverse grant. Mr. Alexander Gehrega and Mr. Andrija Šinkovič to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the falsification of the official documents in the despoiling of the land and property of the Balinsk KSP of the Hmelnicke District. Alexander Gehrega and Andrija Šinkovič to the Minister of Agrarian Policy on State Support for Agrarian Production Jacob Bezbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Interior, the National Commission, which regulates the state in the field of financial services markets, the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine regarding the violation of insurance legislation. JaroslavaDubnevich to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the Nationality of the Galician Academic Chamber Choir. Jaroslava Dubnevich to the Prime Minister for the recalculation of pensions for former civil servants. Alexander Dechtirczuk and Vasil Janicka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, President of the Academy of Medical Sciences, Head of the Ravenna District Government for the provision of implantary hearing aids for children with non-refundable hearing defects at the expense of budgetary resources. Alexandre Co-partner to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance for the improper organization of the work of the Kyiv City Department of the implementation of the State Budget grant for measures for the socio-economic development of Kiev. Igorya Shurma to the Prime Minister on the legality of the mass layoffs of health workers that took place as a result of the adoption, in violation of the Rules, the Cabinet of Ministers of the Ordinance on the Approval of the Standard of Provision of Hospital Beds for 10,000 Populations (No.1024 of 25 November 15). Igorya Shurma to Minister of Youth and Sports on the purposeless use of budget funds by members of the official delegation of the Ukrainian chess team and the need to approve a set of measures aimed at improving chess development. John Ribak to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Chernobyl District Government, head of the Visnik Region Government of the Chernobyl Region for the provision of medical assistance to an oncological resident of a town-type village in the Beregomet Province of Chernivetsec region. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Czernovetsk Observatories for the provision of medical assistance to a sick person in the village of Shepinzi, in the region of Khernieweck. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Odessa Ombudsman, the Odessa region of Odessa on the need for a comprehensive response to the conversion of the village of the Tatarbunar district of Odessa to the work of Valentina Alexyevne Ephraim on the provision of material assistance for the continuation of comprehensive treatment after rapid intervention and the provision of comprehensive social assistance. RobertaGorvato Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development for the preparation and implementation of projects that correspond to the priorities of the EU strategy for the Danube region. Groups of National Deputies (Gorva, Lunchenka, Petovka) to the Minister of Infrastructure on the provision of a Transparent Mechanism for Distribution, Calculation and Use of International Traffic Permits. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Ionova, Frez) to the head of the Ukrainian National Television and Radio Federation on the response of Ukrainian National Deputy Murayev to the public objection to the 2013 Dignity Revolution in Ukraine. Sergey Larina to the head of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine to shut down the gas supply of TOV "CNTI "UNGA" and KP "Heat Energy". DmitraDomova to the Prime Minister, heads of the Government of the Open Shareholders Association "Kirovogradgaz", the Kropitvinick City Head for the restoration of gas supply by the company VAT "Kirovogradgaz" to the DP "Kirovogradtepl" boiler in the town of Kropivnitski. I'm continuing the session 15 minutes before recess. Igora Lucenka until the First World Prime Minister is the Minister of Economic Development and Trade for the conduct of the competition and the appointment of the Director of the State Enterprise, the Ukrainian Intellectual Property Institute. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the absence of government programmes to promote public-private partnership. Mr. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister for the government debt of Ukraine. OlegaKulinich to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the clarification of the mechanism for the modernisation of pensions Sergei Kaplin to the Prime Minister for not allowing the government's "Available medicines" program to stop. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister on the need to increase the social standard of natural gas consumption for subsidies. Sergey Lechchenka to the Minister of Agriculture Policy on the regulation of electronic auctions for the sale of unprocessed wood Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister for the Permanent Development Strategy and Institutional Reform of Forestry until 2022. Mikhail Golka to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Head of the SBU, Henprocuror for the loss of DP "Ukraineruh" money. Andrija Illenka to Henprocuror of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology, Head of the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine for the Construction of Teploener power plant (TEC) in the city of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki Kyiv region. Andrija Illenka, head of the Kyiv City Administration, acting as Head of the Right District in Kiev State Department, Director-General of Kyivatodor Municipal Corporation for Projection of Expenditures in Kiev’s Social Economic Development Programme for 2018, on the capital repair of the asphalt road cover on the Kurchatov Street in the Right-Handed Region. Alexander Nechayev to the head of the Suma Observatories for gross violations during the competitive election for the post of Director of the Shapovalov Rural Cultural House in the Konotope district of Suma. Boris Kozir to Henprocuror for personal control of criminal investigation into fraud, robbery, and deliberate damage to property that has caused large-scale damage, and for action to remove obstacles to criminal investigation. Boris Kozir to Henprocuror to delay the pre-trial investigation into the murder of Vladimir Stassuk. Groups of Nardeps (Romanov, Sysoyenko, others) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of placing objects of advertising with unethical content on the route from the International Airport "Borispol" to the city of Kiev, which stain the image of Ukraine. Anna Romanov to the Prime Minister for improving the road connection between Cherniguov and Kharkiv. Ruslana Solvara to the head of the State Judicial Administration for the protection of the right of access to justice as to the need for a district court in the town of Squira Kyiv district. RuslanaSolvara to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting Head of the State Service of Ukraine on matters of geodesy, cartography and cadastre, heads of the Kyiv Authority on the use of measures to provide land for ATO soldiers living in the village of Khodosovka Kyivo-Svetoshin region of Kiev. Group of Nardeps (Paulenka, Sumar – only 32 MPs) to the Prime Minister for honouring the memory of the outstanding representatives of the Ukrainian creative intelligence of the 1930s, who lived in the Kharkiv House of the Word. Oxani Korczynski to Minister of Defense on urgent repair and repair of technical deficiencies in Bogdan 2251 ambulances. Alexander Brigintz to the procurator of the Odessa region on possible facts of State interest as a result of the possible illegal acquisition of the water fund. Groups of Nardeps (Sporish, Bakumenka, others) up to the temporary responsibility of the Head of the State Service of Ukraine for geodesy, cartography, and cadastre regarding the transfer to the property of the territorial community of the village of Lipivka Tomaspil district of the Winnitsk Region. Oleg Osukhovsky to Henprocuror of Ukraine, Head of the Board, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, Minister of Internal Affairs, Deputy Henprocuror, Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office for the use of measures to restore the rule of law. OlegaOsukhovsky to Henprokuror, Commissioner for Human Rights of the Supreme Council, Prosecutor of the Vinnitsky District for the quality conduct of the pretrial investigation. Michael Golka to the Prime Minister, the first deputy head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography and cadastre to meet the budgetary needs of the local self-government authorities of Ukraine. Jaroslava Markevich is acting as Chief of Dnipropetrov Customs of the DFS on the violation of the rights of a citizen by officials of the Dnipropetrov Customs of the DFS. Jaroslava Markevich to the prosecutor of the Kharkiv district on the activation of criminal investigation No.420132204300000013. JuriyaTimoshenka to the head of the National Police Department in the Ivano-Frankow region for the provision of comprehensive, full and objective investigation into criminal conduct. JuriyaTimoschenka to the minister of education for not allowing pressure on the school director. Yeah, let's keep going. Vladimir Parasyuka to Minister of Ecology, Head of the BSC, Head of the National Police, temporarily acting as Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate for the illegal collection and processing of acidic goudrons at the Gribowitz TP ( Jovkovsky district of Lviv district. Vladimir Parasyuka to the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council, the Minister of Energy, the Minister of Infrastructure, the Head of the BSC on the implementation of measures to halt the transport of coal that is being extracted in the temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk and Lugansk and is being transported from Russia to Poland and other European countries by transit through Ukraine. Andrija Šinkoviča and Alexandre Gerega, until the temporary duty of Minister of Health, Minister of Finance, to provide funds in Ukraine’s national budget for 2018 for cochlear implantation for hearing impaired children. Andrija Šinkovič and Alexander Gerega joined the Minister of Internal Affairs in order to repay the debt owed by the agricultural production cooperative "First National Productive Cooperative". JuriyaLevchenka to the Prime Minister for the violation of the legitimate rights and interests of the territorial community of the city of Kremenczuk Poltaw district by the executive committee of the Kremenchuck City Council. JuriyaLevchenka to the Director of the Department of Land Resources of the Kyiv City Administration for the use of measures to break the lease agreement on the land area, where the film "Nivka" was located in Kiev. Mr. Alexander Dombrowski to Minister of Internal Affairs, Henprocuror, Deputy Attorney-General of the Military Attorney-General, Head of the National Police Department of the Donetsk Region to investigate the death of Mr. Alexander Bashuk. Alexander Dombrowski to the Prime Minister on the taxation of immovable property by natural persons. The Group of Deputies (Peterovka, Gorvati and others) to the Prime Minister and the critical situation with regard to the payment of salaries to the staff of the Zacarpathian budgetary institutions. RuslanaDemczak to the head of the Vinnitsk Observatories, acting as deputy head of the Ukrainian State Motorways Authority, head of the Vinnitsk Region Road Service, on the list of road repairs in the Vinnitsk Region in 2018. RuslanaDemczak to the head of the Vinnitsky observatories regarding the change in the boundaries of the Lipovetsk and Oratov regions of the Winnitsk region. Vladimir Zubika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the review of the Permanent Development Strategy and the institutional reform of the forest economy of Ukraine until 2022. IrinasConsensual to the Head of the Nakrad Ukraine on television and radio talk about the number of detected incidents of television and radio violence and the use of response measures. Olga Červakova to Henprokuror for the protection of the interests of the State regarding the protected lands of the Bulls Fair, which is part of the Golossievska NPP in Kiev. Jury Bublika to the head of the Poltava Authority, the Poltava City Head, for the release of non-destined preschool facilities for the purpose of deploying functionaries. Jury Bublika to the Head of the Supreme Council on the violation of antitrust legislation by PAT Poltawaza on consumers who have refused to set up public-house counters by applying border consumption standards. Groups of Nardeps (Vilkula, Pavlova and others) to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Social Policy, the Head of the Pension Fund for the Retirement of Military Pensions and Pensioners of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Unsatisfying Response and Response to the MP's request "The discriminatory situation that has arisen with regard to the improper pension of military and veteran personnel and the need for insurance in Ukraine's State Budget for 2018 funds to increase pensions for military and veterans" announced at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 20 October 2017. Savchenko’s hopes for the Minister of Defence for the illegal use of the land of the Ministry of Defence totalling 26 farm contracts, the object of which is the actual transfer of the land of defence to a total area of more than 27,000 acres [27,000 ha] by private operators for agricultural and other production. Alexander Wiekula to the State Fiscal Service, temporarily acting as Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate, Deputy Head of the State Forest Resources Agency, temporarily acting as Head of the State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, Head of the National Commission for National Energy Regulation, Head of State Architecture and Construction Inspection, Head of the Public Shareholders Association of the Bank of Krukgazbank, TOV "Ukraine Building and Technical Expertise" on signs of illegal construction and violation of environmental legislation in the construction of a plant at a capacity of 5,000 kW, 5,000 kW. Yurya Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers on the need for funding from the National Budget of Ukraine for the reconstruction of USA II-II levels with the construction of the corps for the 14th grade, boiler and administrative facilities in the village of the Black Stream of the overriding region of Johno-Frankiv region. Jury Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers on the need to allocate funds for the construction of a sports swimming pool in the city of Supernatural Ivano-Frankowsk region on the basis of a subsidy from the State Budget to implement measures for the social economic development of individual territories. Sergia Dunyeva to the Prime Minister, head of the National Social Radio Company Supervisory Board, on the introduction of political censorship and the possible misuse of the budgetary resources of the PAT Government "National Social Broadcasting Corporation of Ukraine". AlexiaRybieca to the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health to support the displaced Donetsk National Medical University and Luhansk National Medical University and to take measures to prevent the outflow of graduates. Constantine Jarinich to the prime ministers of Ukraine. Excuse me, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Henprocuror of Ukraine, the heads of the National Police of Ukraine, the Head of the Board on the verification of possible illegal acts by officials of VAT Kirovogradgaz, the failure of the heating season in Kropivnitsky, the involvement of the guilty in the legally established responsibility. Oleg Petrenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General, on the critical situation in the Ukraine mineral goods market and on the protection of national ownership. Sergei Matvienkova to the Prime Minister for the conduct of the child's heart surgery. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv Obderadmirate on active funding for work in the reconstruction and construction of the children's youth sports school in the city of Tetiyev Kyiv district. Maria Ionova and Irina Heraszczenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of pension payments to residents of the villages of Travneve Bahmut district and Gladosov Gorlovsky district of the Donetsk region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv Observatory for the allocation of funds from the district budget for the reconstruction of the central part of the city of Uzin Bilocerkow district of Kiev and the capital repair of the asphalt roof of the city’s streets. Svetlana Zalitschuk to the first deputy head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine on non-execution by the Chief Executive of the DFS in the Donetsk Region of the Donetsk Administrative Court ruling in case No. 805/1281/16a on the abolition of the tax claim. Sergey Eutuska until the temporary duty of Minister of Health, Minister of the Environment to pollute the environment with the technological wastes of the hot zinc industry of the metal products T.O. Andrija Kiselova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds to the local budget of the Dobropil region of the Donetsk Region. Yurya Boyka and Alexander Villukla to the Prime Minister, the head of the Pension Fund, the Attorney-General for the Retirement of Military Pensions, Pensioners of Internal Affairs, the National Police, Fire Protection, the Tax Police, the State Criminal Enforcement Service in connection with the increase in the level of financial security. The National Deputies (Peterovka, Lunchenko, Gorvati) to the Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure, acting as Head of the Government of the Public Association of the "Ukrainian Railway" for inclusion in the Kharkiv Rakh train route of the village of Kwasi. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, Secretary of the Security and Defence Council for the non-delocation of the National Science and Testing Centre of the Ukrainian Armed Forces from the city of Chernigov to Zitomir. Alexander Dechtirczuk and Vasil Janicka, head of the government of the Rivneoblanergo public stock company, the head of the RIM RIM RIM RAT "Rivneoblanergo", the head of the Rivneoblanergo village council, the head of the Rokitni district administration of the Rivneoblanergo district on the use of measures to join the Rabbits power grid in the village of the Rokitna Valley district. Oxani Korczynski to Henprocuror for information on the work of Ukrainian law enforcement agencies aimed at combating terrorism and separatism in the country. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, head of the Central Electoral Commission, head of the Zitomir government for the promotion of State policy in the field of territorial authority. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the continuation of work from the construction of the Novograd-Volinski Regional TMO. Andrija Lopushanski to the head of the State Judicial Administration on issues of free access to justice in the mountainous areas of the Lviv region. Sergey Matvienkova to the Prime Minister on the legality of the order of the Donetsk Observatories, the military-civil administration. SergeyLyvočina to the Prime Minister for the deepening of the crisis in the scientific sphere. Jurya Odarchenka's executive responsibility as head of the holding fund to provide the information necessary to verify the legality of the privatisation of VAT "Hersonoblanergo". Helen Sotnik to the head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency for the provision of information on compliance with NRAs with the legislative requirements governing the procedure for the conduct of full verification of electronic declarations. Sergey Kiwalova to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the Protection of the Rights and Legal Interests of Ukrainian Seamen of the crew of the "Free Neptune". Igor Lapin to the head of the BSC for information on the number of citizens who have used the program "Come home." Igor Lapin to Henprocuror, deputy prosecutor of Henprocuror of the Chief Military Prosecutor, to provide information on recruited military personnel and volunteers to be held accountable. Jury of Macedonia to the head of the Commission for the appointment of Directors of the State Bureau of Investigation, its deputies, directors of the territorial authorities and directors of the central apparatus of the State Bureau of Investigation for the provision of information. Anatolya Kuzmenka to the Head of the State for the work of verifying compliance with the current legislation of the Ministry of Energy on the enforcement of labour legislation, the provision of social and legal guarantees for employees when leased and the return from the lease of the structural units of the entire property complex of the state holding company Alexanderowogil. Sergey Larina to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the threat of arson among members of the Regional Political Party "The Opposition Block" in the Plain region. Helen Sotnik to Henprocuror for conducting a special trial against former high - ranking workers in the commission of corruption and other crimes. Tetjana Ostrikov to Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure, acting Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the Ukrainian Railways, on the use of urgent measures. Vladislav Doub to Prime Minister, Director of the National. NABU, Minister of Internal Affairs, Henprocuror for the possible systematic theft of state funds and the creation of a criminal group in the city of Złotonosza Cerkaske district. Irina Konstankevich to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, for the continuation of the deadline for the submission of projects by the Commission for the budget programme "Builts of football fields with artificial coverage in Ukraine". Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the Prevention of the Danger of the Red Owl game. AndrijaVadaturski to the Prime Minister for the increase in the price of solid fuel when it comes to benefits and housing subsidies. Sergey Lechchenka to Henprocuror for the armed attack on Ukrainian citizen MikolaPoperka and his complaints about the actions of colleagues of Henprocuratura. Paul Rizanka to the Minister of Agrarian Politics. Paul Rizanenka to the Minister of Agrarian Policy for the Cessation of Land Law Violations as part of the improper review by the General Administration of the State Department of the State Department of the Kyiv Region of Concern of the ATO participants for the granting of permits for the development of land-use documentation for the holding of land for private agriculture. PaulRisanenka is the Acting Head of the State Fiscal Service Department in the Kyiv region to provide information on the size of the payment of Ukradbödtrestservis' salary for the use of the nadrama. Igor Popov to the Minister of Social Policy on the right to a fair pension for pensioners of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. OlegaCulinic to Henprocuror for the non-payment of funds to the children of the ToV "Gadzacsir" for the purchase of milk in the rural population. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister on the need to adjust the timetable for passenger trains, with the aim of optimizing the railway connection between the Lugansk region and the city of Kiev and Kharkiv, establishing a more suitable time for citizens to travel/land trains. Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister on the need to protect the rights of the labour force of the Institute of Chemical Technology of the Eastern Ukrainian National University of Dal in order to expand the conduct of educational activities. Alexander Nechayeva to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the violation of citizens’ rights while obtaining a driver’s license for certain categories and permission to drive vehicles in Suma. Tetjani Čornovol to the temporary duty of the Minister of Health to take measures to end corruption and abuse by the Rector of the National Medical University of the Name of the Mantis. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister for the Permanent Development Strategy and Institutional Reform of the Forest Economy of Ukraine until 2022. VadimKrivochatka to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau on the investigation of the circumstances of non-compliance, by filling in on the official NAMK website, the head of the Opposition ODA by Constantine Brill with a declaration of the person authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self-government. VadimKrivochatka to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney-General for the possible commission of criminal offences and corruption by the head of the opposition ODA, Constantine Brill. Roman Semenha to the head of the Kharkiv Observatories, head of the Andrijav Village Council of the Balaklia District of Kharkiv, head of the Balaklia District Administration, head of the Head of the State Department of State for Nutrition in the Kharkiv Region for Hepatitis A disease prevention measures in the village of Andriyuk of the Balakli district of Kharkiv. Groups of Nardepas (Bathenka, Dubinina and others) to the Prime Minister, the National Commission, which regulates the state energy sector in the area of the rightfulness of the installation of public buildings for gas accounting in multi-family buildings and provides information on the structure of the tariff for the distribution of natural gas throughout the period of the Ukrainian Law on the provision of commercial natural gas accounting, namely, from 11 to 17 years, as well as the pricing structure for the establishment of individual gas counters for consumers. MaximaBurbaka to the Minister of Ecology to verify the activities of the Director of the National Natural Park "Viznicki". MaximaBurbaka to the Prime Minister on the allocation of funds for the completion of the construction and opening of the perinatal centre in the Chernivitz region in the 18th year. VitaliaCupria and Igora Lucenka to Henprocuror to meet the requirements of article 481 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. Igora Lucenka to the executive responsibility of the head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the payment of work and other matters of the head of the National Bank of the United States of Great Britain and Northern Ireland during a long - term vacation. PaulDublika to the temporary duty of head of the State Service in matters of geodesy, cartography, and cadastre, performing the duties of head of the State Fiscal Service, temporarily acting as head of the State Geology Service, and a nuisance in the mining of sand in the territory of the Gitomir region. Alexander Bryginz until he was temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Kyiv City Administration, on the possible facts of pressure on the school principal I - III in the city of Kyiv, number 29, who hindered the efficient work of the institution. Dmitra Dobrodomova to the head of the National Police Directorate in the Vinnitsk Region, the head of the North Office of the Derjaudit Service in the Vinnitsk Region for violations of the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Public Procurement, approved by the Department of Municipal Agriculture and the well-being of the Winnitsk City Council for Lotus "Building a complex for the disposal of household waste in the territory of the People's Rural Council of the Žmerinick district of Vinnitick. Igor Popov to the Prime Minister for the protection of children's rights by improving civil procedural legislation. Victor Krivenk to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee, Deputy Minister for Economic Development, Head of the Mikolayev Observatories, Managing Director of the City Municipal Enterprise Mikolayevvodokal, on the task of the INC "Micolayevvodokal" damage during the administrative indictment procedure at the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. SergeiVlastenka to the head of the President's Administration, Head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, Attorney-General on the need to take measures to respond to possible violations of legislation during the sale of "Ukraine's Media Holding" by President Peter Prashenko. SergiaVlastenka to the director of the NAB, the Attorney General, on the need to verify the involvement of President Peter Prashenek in the organized crime group Viktor Yanukovic, to establish the role and functions of Peter Prashenka in this criminal group and to give legal assessment of his activities during the period of his tenure as Minister of Economic Development and Trade in the Government of Viktor Yanukovic. IriniConsensual to Minister of Education and Science, Minister of Defence, on providing information on the number of military training institutions aimed at ensuring gender equality in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations. IriniSysyenko, until the interim duty of the Ministry of Health on proposals for the project Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "On Approval of the Arrangement for the Conduct of a Competition for the Leadership of the Public, Municipal Health Institute". Irina Lucenko to the minister of foreign affairs for the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of Ukrainian citizen Novičkov Andrija, who is unjustifiably under investigation in the Islamic Republic of Iran. Sergei Rudik to the Head of the Supreme Council Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, Head of the Central Electoral Commission on the critical situation of ensuring the viability of the city of Smil of the Cherkas region. Jury of Bereza to the Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine for obtaining approval of the Eastern Office of the State Audit Service of Ukraine as part of the implementation of the Agro-industry support programme of the Dnipropetrova District on the 17th of the 21st year. Jury Bereza to the Director of the Public Shareholders Association of ChildDniproblonergo on the need for an immediate replacement of electricity resistance, as well as the reinforcements of power lines in the village of Nerustal, the Fifth District of the Dnipropetrov region, which are in very unsatisfactory condition. And the last question in these 302 questions. Sergey Rybalka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the inaction of the Obovolon Police Department of the National Police in Kiev. Dear colleagues, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. At 12:45, our sitting will begin, and we will resume our session. And there will be a presentation by the deputies under the heading "Rizzle." So I ask you not to be late for our colleagues who want to join the debate today. I also thank everyone for this year we spent together. At 12:45, my colleague, Mrs. Oksana Siroid, will continue the session. Please, colleagues, meet me at 12:45. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. We're about to move on to the various shows. And I'm asking you to prepare the national deputies to conduct the recording. Please hold the recording. Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, "Peter Prashenko's Block." No, no, no. Ladies and gentlemen, I stress, especially those who don't know, the buttoning doesn't work, so if we want to pass the word, then someone who's actually signed up can pass the word -- that's the rule, or else anyone can press the piano. I don't run the "Race" system. The "Race" system is operated autonomously. Please, National Deputy Dekhtyarchuk. I won't. National Deputy Igor Lucenko, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! Today, in these days, we see an unusual situation in our financial and banking system. Normally, before New Year's, the bracelets are traditionally strengthened, but what do we see now? Some misunderstandings: In almost the last month, the bracelet lost about 4 percent of its value, perhaps a little less. What does that mean? This means that the abnormal processes in human resources policy by the National Bank are the cause of these problems with our monetary unit. Because what is the National Bank under the Constitution? This is an institution that protects the bracelet from inflationary problems and exchange rate problems. And if Mrs. Gontareva said on April 10 that she doesn't want to work as a banker anymore, and there's still no chief banker in Nazbank, what's strange is that the course is so anomalous. Who is responsible for all this calamity, and who is to blame? By the Constitution, I remind you that the transfer and replacement of the head of the National Bank of Ukraine is the mandate of the President of Ukraine. But we don't have to get Parliament out of this problem, we're all here, sitting in this room, we're all responsible for this disaster. If we are all with you, all 420 of the deputies, will remain silent and say nothing that the President does not exercise his constitutional authority, does not replace the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, then we are also complicit in this crime and also co-authors of this financial crisis, which is always happening with our monetary unit. We're not going to talk a lot about how big the charges against Gontar's, how many criminal cases have been broken up against her right now. In particular, according to my statement, twice I have been criminalized against the Hontareva, the Attorney General's Office does not want to investigate anything, I personally have to go to court with lawyers and force investigators to work, investigate all these colossal accusations, these colossal affairs that have been taking place in our financial system for the past three years, when dozens of perfectly sound banking institutions are being destroyed. How, then, will the bracelet be healthy if we do not have a sound financial system? So one of the first tasks, which, unfortunately, was failed by Parliament this year, is personnel issues and one of the most important is the replacement of the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. So once again, we all need to ask the President to immediately put a professional, responsible, honest person on the head of the National Bank of Ukraine to help investigate the crimes of the predecessors of Gontareva and Rozkova and others and to help put the bracelet on a stable course. Thank you all for your attention. With New Year's Eve, everyone. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u86	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Yuri Berezu.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u87	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, reverend Ukrainian people! My speech, I would like to be made immediately as an official address to the Head of the Supreme Council and to the Head of the Regulatory Committee. Yesterday, on a social network, there was an announcement about the beginning of the work of the Church of the Holy Vladimir of the Moscow Patriarchate on the 7th floor in the premises of Sadov, 3a, where parliamentary committees are located. I don't know what we need to do to understand a few things. I recall not so long ago when in this room the Ukrainian Parliament, representatives of all religions celebrated the courage, honor, and death of Ukrainian soldiers. There was only one religion that did not stand up. Who needs to be reminded of how many Ukrainian churches work in the occupied Crimea or in the occupied Donbasa with Lugansk? Not one, not one. Why is the church, which is a nest, a terrorist nest, a nest, where virtually all the FSB agency, a church that didn't repent of destroying itself in the 1930s and of all the archeers in this church were appointed by KGB, NCCD, a church that is and conveys all the thoughts of aggression that does not speak of peace that speaks of war? I call on the Chief of the Supreme Council, the Chairman of the Regulatory Committee, to give his assessment. In turn, I'm talking about the Moscow Church in state institutions. My country -- Ukraine -- shouldn't be! It's nonsense! Dear colleagues, dear friends! I propose that this issue be brought up on the very day that we begin to work -- January 16 -- to discuss and not to let go of such disgraceful things, I say, is a shameful act that we have not responded to, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u88	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Victor Galasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u89	Dear Ukrainians, fellow countrymen! The government doesn't want to do that, but we're going to have to do that: count with the Ukrainians first and foremost, defend Ukraine's national economic interests. We need to learn to live with our own minds rather than with foreign advice from foreign experts. We need to learn to rely on the trust of Ukrainians and our own national resources, not on the foreign loans of the International Monetary Fund and other creditors, which we and our children should then pay with interest. We need to learn to use our most powerful power that we have, the Ukrainian people, not to expect someone from another country to come to us and do everything right. He won't! Today, authorities are living in a world of illusions, promoting nonexistent reforms and giving rise to national economic interests at every turn. The result is the loss of Ukrainian jobs, which is that incomes are growing much slower than prices are rising. It's unacceptable. The Radical Party team suggests how to do this. We have proposed an anti-crisis plan for economic development and an industrial package of reforms that we support in this Parliament and in other factions and groups, including who understands that the country's well-being and prospects are above all political, we are putting it into practice today. They've adopted a 10-year moratorium on the export of roundwood, making billions of investments in the country today, creating dozens of new manufacturing enterprises, including European investments, people getting jobs and wages. The officials of the European Union and the President of Ukraine wanted to cancel this moratorium, and we didn't let them do it and we didn't let them do it -- the Ukrainian forest has to work for the Ukrainians. We have already passed a second metallurgical law in this room, which has been restricted to the export of scrap metal abroad, we have provided a mining and metallurgical complex of Ukraine, which employs more than 300,000 Ukrainians, jobs, wages, factories -- unbreakable work, Ukrainian army -- technology, weapons of Ukrainian metal. We've set up a schedule for import VAT for all manufacturing equipment for two years, this unprecedented decision that we've made with Oleg Lášk with an amendment to the budget package, this is a two-year free loan from the state to all the investors who are modernizing, creating new productions. We demand the immediate adoption of industrial park legislation as a whole, so that Ukraine will win competition for jobs and investment. The minimum wage in industrial parks will be 11,000 dollars, according to the law. And finally, as soon as possible, "Buy Ukrainian, pay the Ukrainians," so that the authorities will stop giving our jobs to Ukrainians to foreign countries. There must be prosperity and development in our home Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u90	Thank you. I'm irrigated before the words of the national deputy Borislav Berezu.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u91	Good afternoon! The esteemed colleagues who remained in the hall would raise more than 20 people, so it did. But I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to the Ukrainians and so are you. What do I have to say? Next year. In the following year, Ukraine can either receive recognition in Europe at the cultural level or receive the following, as usual, disgrace and betrayal. I'll explain what this is about. The following year, Paris will host one of Europe's largest book fairs, Salon Paris de Livre. At this salon will be the main guest, what country do you think? Yes, Russia. She was invited as the main cultural country this year. But Ukraine may not be there at all. Why did this happen? Because the ministry is footballing each other, and no one understands who should be funding. I am very grateful today that Mr. Alexander Daniluk, Paul Rosenko, and Mr. Eugene Nietschuk have agreed to take control of this issue and resolve it so that Ukraine will not receive such disgrace. This is because if Ukraine does not participate in this fair, it will mean that Ukraine is not on the cultural map of Europe at all. If we're not here, we can't be counted. We are unique in the prism of the problems of war, corruption and conflict. But the cultural component is the same moment that Ukraine can get preferences in Europe and should. That's why I would like to point out that if we lose at the level of cultural diplomacy, we get nothing at all at the level of international diplomacy. So I will continue to see if all the promised money that these ministries promised, and also Palo Klimkin, who also promised, was not present today, so I will not be able to get any answers from him if they will be sent to Ukraine to participate in the Paris Book Salon. Now, here's another very interesting question. I'd love to go to the Fatherland faction right now, but there's no such faction, there's only Igor Lucenko, so they can explain to me what was going on in Kievrad when, together with the BP and Solidarity, the Fatherland votes, accepting in general without any documents, secretly documents that decide the future of Kiev. What happens when the issues are solved in a culinary and uninterested manner. Who put you up to this? And how can you say you're in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u92	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u93	That you're in opposition, but you're helping the authorities rob Kiev? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u94	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Victor Vuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u95	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Ladies and gentlemen, for three years the Radical Party has tried to properly address international legal and internal issues related to Russian armed aggression and the occupation of part of Ukraine's territory. We've even reached the approval of a number of parliamentary decrees, particularly regarding the recognition of Russia as an aggressor state, but in principle, there is not enough law. Yes, for a long time, Ukraine is seeking from the world community clear international legal assessments of Russia's aggression and the proper application of international law and severe sanctions. However, our partners rightly noted the lack of proper assessments and regulations in our own laws. So finally, after three wasted years of so-called anti-terror operation, President Poroshenko took the liberty of introducing a draft law with a strong legal position in Ukraine regarding the non-aggression of Russia and the occupation of Donbas. Thanks to the pressure of MPs and experts, the draft law takes into account the positions found in Parliament's rulings, including those initiated by the Radical Party. For the first time at the level of the law, Russia will be recognized as an aggressor and an invader, the DNR, the LNR, the occupying administration, and the militants will be the irregular armed formations of Russia. After the first reading had been deleted, references to the shameful Minsk covenants and the second reading were to be immediately adopted by law as a whole. It will radically strengthen the state's position on the diplomatic front, including with regard to international sanctions and the mandate of the UN peacekeeping mission, in particular making it impossible for the Russians to join it. Once again, however, we see a delay in authority with the adoption of this dutiful law. President Poshenko fears to anger someone outside the country and once again manifests a weakness and a lack of value in his foreign policy. The Radical Party insists on the immediate adoption of the Law on the Depopulation of Donbas. And a few words about honesty and consistency in politics. Oleg Láska’s radical party has always opposed the anti - Ukrainian Minsk treaties and granted special status to Donbas. Four years ago, when others hesitated, we declared their anticonstitutionality and legal worthlessness. We openly defended this position both in Ukraine and in the international arena. We did not vote in favour of any draft law to implement the Minsk Accords. In particular, the Law on the Special Status of Donbas was voted against when it was dominated by the majority of the democratic coalition. Our unchangeable position, a stop to Russian aggression, cannot be taken by the handover of national interests. We wish the Ukrainians real peace next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u96	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy. Yes, there is no Bulgarian national deputy. So, then, National Deputy Kuprienko, please, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u97	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Today is the last day of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council this year. And from the highest public court, we're taking stock of our work. And I'm proud and proud to report to the Ukrainians on behalf of the entire Radical Party team that we've been sitting here for a year. We as a team, the Iron Party team, stood up for your interests, dear Ukrainians! And even now, in this room, if you look at it, apart from the Iron Party team, there are individual national MPs. And thank them for being at work. But it's bad that they're not on our team, but it's all temporary. So, given the year's summary, I'm happy to welcome all the woodworking people who, thanks to our radical Wooden Roundwood Export Act, got jobs, got decent wages, got the right to live on their own land. I welcome all the metallurgy, the people of Mariupol, who, thanks to our radical Law on the Prohibition of the Export of Metallurgy, have obtained raw material for the company, and have again received jobs, wages, and decent living. I welcome doctors, nurses, medical personnel, such as the Amosova Institutes, the Shalimov Institutes, the Strazeska, the grandeurs of our medicine, thanks to our efforts, they receive a pilot project. And we report, we make and we make every effort that it does work to ensure that our people are given health care, disease protection, and pain relief. Happy New Year! We're with you, and we'll never leave you. I welcome from this high rostrum all those who are now in the trenches looking at our Ukrainian occupied land and protecting us from the Russian invasion. I wish you that the bullets will fly away from you like weapons, so that none of you will be hurt, neither will any of you be harmed, nor, by God, be put to death. Good luck to your families, good luck to you. I want peace in my families, in my homes, and in my children’s eyes. Happy New Year!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u98	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Chamberlain. People's deputy Olga the Mantis, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, in summary of 2017, I would like to point out that, from the point of view of saving and protecting the health of our children, this year was unsatisfactory. Because we're going in next year with underprivileged children: over 52 percent of polio, over 52 percent of right. And this is based on the fact that we've had a 70-fold increase in measles, three times the death rate from botulism. And at the same time, by the third year in a row, we do not have a minister of health. There is no one who is responsible for the development of the health system and for the personal responsibility for the health of citizens. At the same time, when there are no drugs in Ukraine, there are no raw materials, no vaccines, and 23 million dollars that Parliament has allocated. That's money in 2015, 2016, 6 billion dollars in 2017 -- they're in foreign deposit accounts. And with this before New Year's Eve, I'm asking the Attorney General to look into the New Year's tree to see why our Cabinet of Ministers is spending the very important resources that everyone in Ukraine needs today to save the lives of their loved ones who are allowing these funds to be spent abroad when they're lying there, and someone is making money on them. The Ministry of Health has not been able to purchase any drugs for the 6 billion that Parliament has allocated this year. Zero bracelets used. And from this great, high rostrum, I want to go to the New Year's canoe, not to the Prime Minister, not to the President, and I have addressed them repeatedly in writing, orally, but to Santa Claus. Grandfather Frost, please help the Prime Minister to pay off the $50 million debt owed to medical personnel from all over the country so that people will have money to cover their holiday table before New Year's. Grandfather Frost, please help the Prime Minister of Ukraine appoint, at last, a minister of health to be in charge of the health of our citizens. And I want to wish all Ukrainians, given that there is no minister of health in the country, there is no vaccine, no serum and no medicine, to be healthy, and the main thing is not to give up. Because I am absolutely sure and I believe that we will build a worthy, just country, let the corrupts pack their suitcases and leave our country, let the oligarchs pack their suitcases and go to their islands, we build our state for all those people who want to live here and raise their children and their grandchildren. I wish everyone good health.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u100	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u101	And I ask you all to mention on New Year's Eve all those who have given their lives in order to be able to celebrate the New Year for those mothers as they buried their own.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u102	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u103	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear voters of the 198th constituency, who more than three years ago entrusted me with the right to represent your interests in Parliament! Traditionally, at the end of the year, I report on my work. In days 3-4, you'll see in your boxes my written report, hopefully my assistants will be distributed into every house, as I've been doing for three years in a row. But with the opportunity to conclude today's parliamentary part of our plenary work, I want to brief you on the general indicators that have succeeded and that may not have succeeded. During this year, I registered 28 bills, and to date, my legislative work is in Parliament 119 bills. Another form of legislative and legislative activity is questions. Believe me, I have taken full advantage of my right, on Fridays, you know, the chairman will read out the requests to the leaders of the central and local authorities on the loose issues that you are addressing at your receptions. 67 questions I made this year, and hopefully that brought you closer to solving your painful issues. Although, of course, I take it as appropriate that not every request from a national MP has a logical conclusion and solution to your problem, but water does not flow under a lying rock. So only an active, consistent, proactive position gives you a chance to solve many of the issues that you come to me with at your receptions. In order to receive as many of my constituents as possible, apart from the traditional receptions that I receive regularly, every day, from Monday to Friday, all my working hours in Kamyanec, in Smilli, in Chercas, I regularly go to you, in the villages and in the same places, but more often than once a month. As of today, I can say that I have visited 38 locations in Cherkassky, Smilyan, and Kamyan. These are villages: Verbivka, Gruszkowka, Žabotin, Lebedevka, Mihajlivka, Flarkovka, Jurchiha, Timoshovka Kamyanské district, this is Bilozurya, Verguna, Dubiyvka, Dumanci, Lesski, Sagunivka, Stepanka, Nechayivka, Hatzki hamori and Red Libera Cherka region, this is Balaklea, Buda Makiyivka, Golovyatina, Zalewka, Malosmiljanka, Kutszka, Makiivka, Nosačev, Plaske, Popovka, Rotmistrovka, Samgradok, Sunky, Tashlik, Tekline and Ternivka Smilian region. My time is running out, wait for my report, and remember that we are not finishing work today. On the weekends, many of our colleagues will go on their way to greet our soldiers because they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u104	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u105	Praise be to our soldiers who defend our borders in the eastern borders, glory to all who, despite a difficult moment, continue to believe and fight for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u106	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u107	ValeriaZarztko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. This is my first speech from this parliamentary rostrum. [[Applause]] And I want to dedicate it to my little family, Donbas. Donbas is a powerful industrial region of Ukraine. Most of the people in Donbas are hard and honest people: they're miners, they're metallurgists, they're machine builders. My countrymen, Ukrainians, the Donetsk and Luhansk region, have been in very difficult condition for three years. I was personally among those who left occupied Donetsk, leaving all my past life there, within hours of leaving without seeing my future. I don't know how hard it is to start a new life in a new place from the beginning. That is why I believe that my main objective in this Parliament is to help the displaced. This is to help those who left their home under fire who went out in search of a new destiny. Also, those who were unable to leave and were forced to remain in the temporarily occupied territory. The Radical Party team led by Oleg Lashk supports the integrity of our nation. We emphasize that Donbas is Ukraine. [[Applause]] But most important of all, we are proving our position, not in words, but in fact. We're doing everything we can to get Donbas back to Ukraine. We have a lot to be proud of, because of our offer, the government approved a major project for the reconstruction of the railway movement of the Commission-Zorya-Volnovaha. This will not only increase transport links with Donbas but also increase economic ties, which will double the volume of exports of finished industrial products. What, in turn, will ensure the stable work of Ukrainian companies, the guaranteed salary for Ukrainians, the increase in Ukraine’s export potential, and foreign exchange. [[Applause]] The Radical Party team has chosen to launch a new train from Kiev to Mariupol, which will finally allow the city’s inhabitants to travel freely and comfortably in their country. Thanks to the hard work of the Radical Party team, funds were also made available for the construction of kindergartens and the reconstruction of schools in Donetskina, particularly in the Microregion of the City of Mariupol, and for the reconstruction of the Mariupola Technical List. On the eve of Christmas and New Year’s Eve, I wish everyone an abundance, peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u108	Please let me finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u109	and the harmony of the soul. Thank you! Happy New Year!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u110	Thank you. And I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Chižmar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u111	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! The Radical Party has consistently advocated the issue of national sovereignty and the protection of its national interests. And the issue of citizenship in this regard has not been the last place, because we know of frequent facts where citizenship is used today either for certain political purposes or it is used for dual citizenship by foreigners who, accordingly, violate Ukraine's rights and freedoms, and we have many such facts. Unfortunately, the President of today, which is a guarantee of the existence of a civil institution, does not properly, as I think, exercise his authority, and we have very many cases where the institution of citizenship, the Civil Society Act, which is to be one of the elements of national creation, one of the elements of national sovereignty and the protection of national interests, is used exclusively or in pear technology, as we remember the legalization of the citizenship of foreigners who did not have any credit to Ukraine, and as a result carried out those or other actions that only harmed Ukraine: I speak of both now and of Kwiatshvili, and of Zguladze, and of other such reformers that no one knew before in Ukraine, and they cannot say what they did at home. We remember when we use citizenship. selective application of legislation on the cessation of citizenship. We remember the depriving of the citizenship of political opponents -- Borovik and Saakashvili -- but we have never deprived everyone of their citizenship, I'm not talking about Jarezko, who is now in the government of Puerto Rico, and the law forbids Ukrainian citizens from working in foreign state and law enforcement agencies, but I'm talking about hundreds and thousands of Ukrainians today who have betrayed the country in the occupied territory, working in law enforcement agencies today, in the courts and taking responsibility of Ukrainian activists. Think of such names as Rubik, Kozyrev, Pavlovsky. These are the judges who have sentenced our Ukrainian activists who have remained in Crimea for their Ukrainian sovereignty and independence until many years of imprisonment. We have to deprive them of such people of their citizenship and impose international legal sanctions, because in another way we cannot get to them today. I would also like to point out that there is a selective test of dual citizenship in officials and in those with political and public government functions. We know there are a lot of reports in the press that MPs are different levels, and so are officials. They have dual citizenship. Unfortunately, tests are conducted selectively, and I think it's a matter of state sovereignty. The President has the means to do that. And we know that the person with the dual citizenship that was in our room has been taken from us is Andrew Artemenko. And I think it's a matter of national security. But before that, there's a lot of information, let's say, about the same Vadim Rabinovich, which is not being investigated and whether he has citizenship or not, and I'll say again, it's a matter of national security. Civil issues today are vulnerable to corruption. We know that so many illegal migrants today are in Ukraine and want to use Ukrainian citizenship for illegal transition to Europe, using our visa-free status. And we know, once again, that Europe has not been a year, but has told Ukraine that there are problems with illegals.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u112	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u113	who today receive Ukrainian citizenship and are in Europe. Thus, it is also a threat to our image in the world. So once again, we consistently advocate that the law cannot be applied.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u114	Thank you. The speech of the National Deputy of Chižmar is to be taken into account as the address of the National MP. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the National Deputy Irina Podowak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u115	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! And I can say good afternoon, dear one-partyers! It would not have been desirable for 2017 to remain in the history of Ukraine as the year of the rematch of the oligarchate and the year of the beginning of political persecution after Maidan. Against the special status of Donbas in the Constitution of Ukraine, for what Self-Help calls the Minsk Accords a capitulation, for demanding recognition of Russian aggression, for protecting volunteers in the courts, for stopping all possible ways of trading in blood, for consistently and systematically calling the so-called ATO war, for defending the NABU, for demanding the creation of an Anti-Corruption Court, for fighting a repressive machine, for protecting human rights, for protecting entrepreneurs from taxpayers, for fighting the last money for the community. For all of this, the young political force -- the Self-Help Party -- our one-party people have been subjected to repressive political pressure and cataclysm. As of today, more than 50 criminal cases against our party members, our supporters, members of the Self-Help community organization, the heads of local self-government. It's unacceptable. All 2017 has become for our political power, for all of our supporters, for all of our sympathizers, for some of our fellow thinkers in Parliament, not for a year, but for the development of resistance to a system that has unfortunately not been changed. It was camouflaged, and now we see a rematch happening and a rise in the hydra of corruption and political persecution. I don't want anyone, no new political power, who went to this House with pure intent, to find themselves in this situation. I want to say that we will support and support all of our fellow citizens of Ukraine who want an honest and prosperous Ukraine. Welcome to New Year's Eve! Let's stick together, because only in unity is strength, and together are we going to win.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u116	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the National Fisherman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u117	Dear Ukrainians, the head of the National Bank is on vacation for seven months. The government today cannot either release the head of the National Bank or appoint a new head of the National Bank. Many of our colleagues criticize this situation, but we believe that the system should work. That's why Oleg Lášk and I, with the deputies of almost all factions, have registered Bill 7101, where we propose not to violate the President's right, because under the Constitution only he can appoint and release the head of the National Bank, namely to file, if a person is tired, find another job or not want to work for 30 days, 30 days to release the head of the National Bank. [[Applause]] We think the system should work. The authorities today, unfortunately, do not need systematic reforms, but our faction insists on a report by the head of the National Bank. I'm sure society should know what it's done over the years. And we also insist that the new claimant or, rather, the applicants should come to the profile committee in the Supreme Council walls and tell us how they will update confidence in the banking system, how they will make available credit for the real economy, for people, for small and medium-sized business, how they will end today's "bankopad", which has been going on for more than a year. I want to give you a few examples. This week, everyone heard rumors that there would be an appointment and a release of the heads of the National Bank, but we see a zero on the way out. But I think it's going to be two more important bills. A credit register bill so that banks that lend are able to have information or to give out credit to a legal person or a natural person in other banks. About the state banks we held on the committee. By the way, 60 percent of the banking system is government banks today. And 70 percent is bad, as I say, toxic loans. Unfortunately, the Supreme Council was unable to vote in favour of these laws this year. Unfortunately, the Supreme Council was unable to hear a report from the head of the National Bank and to appoint the head of the National Bank. But we say we don't hang a nose. We believe that the following year our faction will do its utmost to assign a new candidate with a clear plan to this responsible position. And I want to take this opportunity to welcome all the Ukrainians with New Year's holidays, to wish them, first of all, peace, health, inspiration. And so that they can hear the improvement of their lives, not just from television, from television screens, but from the heirlooms. With the coming festival!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u118	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the people’s representative, Derevyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u119	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". It ends in 2017, and we see that for the fourth year after the Dignity Revolution, the President, the oligarchy and all the germs that surround the President today began to make an oligarchy rematch, an anti-corruption rematch, an anti-democracy rematch. And it's all about the fact that they're very excited about their own wealth, they're very excited about the circuit work, they're very excited about each other's support. And in general, they forgot about Ukraine, about the Ukrainian people, about all the commitments they all made when they went to power. And we can see that this year, 2017, becomes a turning point in the sense of this rematch. Taking pride in corruption and their own wealth, they did not notice how the law - enforcement agencies of the U.S. This was followed by a sharp reaction: the destruction of anticorruption bodies created, including the NAB, the attack on all activists and the attack on all political opposition forces based on democracy, freedom of speech. We see how they decided to destroy all their political opponents, to exert political repression. And this is the biggest blow to the image of Ukraine, the biggest blow to our overall image as a democratic country since the Dignity Revolution, which Poroshenko has imposed in the last four years. I want to tell you that more impact and more damage to Ukraine has not been done by Prashenko, as he has done in the last half-and-two months, when he illegally expels citizens of other countries from Ukraine, when he unlawfully arrests and throws in prison political opponents, and including putting pressure on the courts, on law enforcement authorities, clearly demonstrating that he is the new Yanukovich. What I'm trying to say is that Mr. Michael Saakashvili was transferred today to January 3. Perhaps they feel that they will be more comfortable and more comfortable just on January 3, when the whole country is resting and when the entire international community is also resting, to make their orders that they wanted to do in the Court of Appeal today. I would also like to warn Mr. Poshenko not to follow the path of Yanukovich when he fails to stop the protests of peaceful citizens, to take the so-called civil opposition. This Sunday, we don't encourage our followers to go on the march, no meetings we don't have on Sunday. We urge people not to go out and be provoked or provoked. Please give me 10 seconds, it's important. Don't go to those provocations.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u120	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u121	Now he's trying to get Poshenko to stop the peace protests, and now he's trying to stage a civil confrontation in Ukraine. The Ukrainians are smart, they're a huge European nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u122	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u123	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians, the year is ending, and one of the issues that has been in the order of our daily lives for four years is still beyond the reach of a solution in the Supreme Council Hall. This is about the biggest issue today of our state, the issue of life and death, which has been solved by the war against our state, Russia, Moscow. And we see that, today, neither the Supreme Council of Ukraine nor the President of Ukraine, as the Supreme Commander, are ready to make fundamental decisions that would actually allow Ukraine to win and ensure peace on its land. In particular, and so loudly irritated by the authorities of the Law on Reintegration, even though I don't consider this law a panacea, and the liberals, we didn't vote in favour of this law in the first reading, because it contains very many conflicting moments. But even this law, which has so much power infuriated, saying that we recognize Russia as an aggressor, we recognize the occupied territories in occupied territories, it is today placed in a distant drawer. And we're convinced that actually, it was from the very beginning of the game. Because the authorities needed one thing, they needed to push the prolongation of the Special Status Act, so-called Donbas. And they did it, two months ago in Parliament's walls absolutely in violation of the Constitution and in violation of Ukraine's national interests. And the Law on Reintegration, so called, was only needed as a total noise effect, as a kind of distraction from society in order to make it easier to push through the Prolongation of the Special Status Act. This function was fulfilled by the Law on Reintegration, and now it is simply no longer needed by the authorities, plus under the pressure of a patriotic society, especially under our active opposition to freedom and other patriotic deputies, the mention of the shameful anti-Ukrainian Minsk agreements was removed from this law. And after that at all, I understand, the authorities didn't need this law completely, and even they, more importantly, think that it should not be adopted at all now. So that's actually the game, it's happening today in the walls of Parliament, it's happening today in the corridors of power, instead of calling things your names today, instead of making the necessary decisions today. And I'm going to remind you that since 2014, the Freemasons have been proposing these decisions, we're proposing to break diplomatic relations with the aggressor country, we're proposing to call war, we're proposing to call occupied territories occupied, we're proposing to introduce a visa regime with Moscow at last, to end trade relations. But we realize that today's authorities are not interested in it, they don't need it, and that's why they continue to "sit on two chairs," but it can't always be, in Ukraine there will be a patriotic, nationalistic authority that will do these things that will protect Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u124	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Korchik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u125	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear friends! Law 4638 on the amendment of article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Lands of Defence is currently registered in the Supreme Council. I hope that we will consider and adopt this important law, since it is necessary for the legal regulation of the use of defence land, for the placement of communication, navigation, observation that belongs to Ukraine. The state-owned air traffic service company of Ukraine, Ukraine, is a strategic enterprise, the foundation of a unified civil-military system of air traffic organization. Along with commercial tasks, it does a number of very important tasks in the interests of the defence and security of our nation. The sharp drop in air traffic intensity by more than 55 percent and, as a result, the sharp fall in the income of this company to 70 percent is the figures that Dmitry Babiyczuk received when he headed the venture in 2014. In almost three years, the company’s management has made it impossible. To date, all the benefits provided for in the collective agreement have been restored, which, by mutual agreement and by trade unions, had to be frozen back in 2014. From one year to the next, wages have increased by 52 percent over the next three years. This year alone, this figure was 37 percent, the decision to increase by 5 percent the salary and salary of the service year, increased by 15 percent the remuneration for foreign language and employment, increased by one and a half percent the allowance for the complexity of the operating environment, increased by 300,000 times the salaries of workers in the event of reductions, removed the restrictions on capital investment that we were forced to implement in 2014 under the anti-crisis programme. In the financial plan of Ukraine for 2017, capital investments totalled 643 million dollars. The project for the financial plan for 2018 is already 680 years old, and airlines are gradually restoring flights to our sky. Thus, in 11 months 2017, the number of flights carried out increased by 18.7 percent compared to the same period last year. The enterprise is moving forward, its profits are increasing, and European air safety organizations and the international organization of civil enterprises estimate that air navigation services for the aviation safety management system are the fifth among 48 countries in the European region. Tell me, if this state-owned enterprise is doing this kind of thing, the wages that on average are 23,000 dollars that it has.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u126	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u127	Who else has such results? In addition, let us ask another question, Who will gain from the destruction of Ukraine and the weakening of the power of the State? The answer is obvious. I want to emphasize anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u128	Please, 20 seconds, I'm asking you to finish because everyone wants to speak today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u129	My colleagues, I would like to point out that any distortion or dissemination of pre-faith information about the business and its director has a negative impact on the country's defences. That's why it's unacceptable to stir up the situation around Ukraine. The consequences of such events can be disastrous for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u130	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u131	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national deputies who have remained in the Hall! First of all, I wanted to draw our Oksana Siroid's attention, because there's no Evtushka, but she gave the word to one of the national MPs, and it wasn't there, and he checked in, and he didn't press the button. To be honest is always to be honest. First of all, I would like to welcome everyone, again, to join all the greetings that have been in our hall, all our voters with the New Year, all the Ukrainians! First of all, remember that 25 Roman Catholics are also going to celebrate Christmas. And we've given this room the opportunity to do everything we can to make this day a weekend. This is the first time Roman Catholics will celebrate this holiday on the weekend. Welcome to all Ukrainians' Christmas, too, because first of all, I would like to wish everyone peace, health and welcome to our soldiers today who are protecting us so that we can speak out of this rostrum. What I would like to do to the people of Ukraine, to our hall, is, first of all, that we left this populism in 2017, which unfortunately is among all our deputies, maybe I have. But, along with leaving him, we could do a lot more, even more, to enact laws, to adopt legislation this year. But I want to draw attention to what there was to be done, but most, again, six factions we have today are in opposition, many other non-fractional deputies. And that's why the fate of today's laws, unfortunately, for only two factions, is the People's Front and the Peter Prashenko Block. But I think we're going to do everything we can to make our laws, our bills really serve our people. I'd like to go to some other bills. This, for example, is about how our land will be tackled by government authorities. And, you know, if today. two days ago we couldn't adopt the law, we couldn't even put into order the day that the land should be managed outside the populated areas by rural heads and sessions, that's all the details. I know that government authorities are tearing down, and the country heads, the sessions, they know who and how to give these lands. The last gardens around the village are. They seem to know who the authorities are, and God knows who gets them. So I think that in the new year 2018 we have to do everything we can to be able to accept this bill. And I would like to conclude that in 2018, all of us would like to be national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u132	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u133	We did open up and passed the law so that we could all go through the lie detector, the polygraphs, and just to tell the truth to the Ukrainian people. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u134	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of the National Deputy, Oleg Láška, and his team.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u135	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want the Ukrainians to take a look at our team, the radical party commander, who is in full force today in Parliament. And look at the hall, and you see an almost empty hall. Why do I start with this? The presence at the workplace of the Iron Party team is a demonstration of accountability to the people, to Ukraine, before their duty. People choose deputies to work. Tax payers pay the President, the Prime Minister, and the deputies a lot of wages to change people’s lives for the better. When is the MP unable to come to the hall to work in a soft, warm, comfortable room, and then to do what, and does he have a conscience? Dear Ukrainians, I want you to see that both in Laszka and in his "iron" team there is both conscience, and responsibility, and knowledge, and plan of action. All 2017 each of you heard us fighting for you, people good for your life, for your children, for our home country, for every Ukrainian to live in Ukraine. Did we manage to do that? No, because unfortunately, we're 20 deputies in parliament. In the next Parliament, when there is a majority of Laska, all the laws proposed by the Radical Party team will be passed in three months. Within three months in the country, order can be made for every Ukrainian to have a job, a decent salary, a future, and a future worth living in his own country. In 2018, I would like the Ukrainians to reunite their Ukrainian families so that people from abroad can return to their homes in Ukraine. When will they be back? When they see that they can live, earn, and put their children on their feet in their home country. The politics of the Radical Party, our new economic policy, our alternative to the policy of power -- a strong country, a developed economy, a decent economy, a decent salary, worthy pensions, stable prices, tariffs, stable bracelets, peace, unification of the country, restoration of territorial integrity, this is my plan and my "iron" team. I want every Ukrainian in Ukraine and beyond in the new year 2018 to wish health, faith, family comfort, success for their children, peace for our home country, stability, development, belief in Ukraine, belief in myself. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u136	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the national deputy Leonid Hamtz.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u137	Leonid Yemen, city of Kiev, faction of the People's Front. Respectable Ukrainian citizens! I'd like to welcome you to New Year's. The coming New Year and wishing, of course, the peaceful heavens above your head. I want you to raise your champagne cups, celebrate the New Year, and wish your health to yourself and your family, mention those boys, those soldiers in the trenches today who give us the opportunity to celebrate the New Year and work on the tasks assigned to us by the State. Actually, right now I'd like to mention what we were able to do this year, what we could be proud of in this Ukrainian Parliament. And clearly, the law that we can boast about is the Constitutional Complaint Act, which we have given every Ukrainian citizen the opportunity to directly defend his rights in the Constitutional Court. Let me remind you how it worked all of 20 years ago. There was a cohort of such sort of top officials, of the ungods, who, and exclusively, could address the Constitutional Court: this is the President of Ukraine, this is the Supreme Court of Ukraine, and this is 45 national deputies (not even one or two or ten national deputies). It was necessary for a citizen to enlist the support of 45 national defenders in order to protect his or her right by appealing to the Constitutional Court. Well, it's a totally wrong situation, because obviously no citizen who can be sure that his rights will be protected can be found in the country for 20 years. Therefore, that bill, and I am proud to be the author of this Constitutional Complaint Act, which was adopted by this Parliament this year, gave every Ukrainian citizen the right if he considers that the law adopted by the Supreme Council, that the decree adopted by the President of Ukraine, that the decision issued by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is contrary to the rights of that citizen, he has the right to defend his right in court. And if the court decides that this citizen's right to remain unprotected, the citizen goes to the Constitutional Court and directly defends his, the Constitution stipulates, the holy right to health, to life, to decent education, other rights defined by our basic law. And what has not been done in this Parliament, because it is clearly not only worth talking about gains today. The Law on Open Election Lists was not adopted. Now we're looking at a sick parliament, a parliament where there are no national MPs, an irresponsible parliament. To Parliament, which. We can make up fines for them to go to work, and they'll be crutches on which.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u138	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u139	The disabled parliament, of course, but we need a healthy and industrious responsible parliament. And only through the Law on Open Election Lists can we achieve this. And I wish it to us next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u140	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Tetjano Ostrickov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u141	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians. Tetjana Ostrova, Self-help faction. To sum up 2017, in summary, we are basically talking about what didn't happen, because the positive, what is really good for people is only the granting of a visa-free regime for Ukrainians, which is not a merit of power, but rather the recognition of the European Union of Ukrainians as really members of the European family and the recognition of our right to freely move the territory of the European Union. The problem of the East has not been solved, the authorities have failed to pass the Occupational Territory Act, to call Russia a occupying state, an aggressor state, to hold Russia responsible for everything that Russia has done and is doing on the occupied Donbassa. I haven't found the power of time to consider the Law on the Recognition of LNRs and DNRs by terrorist organizations, and I don't have time for that. There has been no real judicial reform. Even those who have come to the Supreme Court, we see, among them are people who are compromised, to whom the public has claims about their integrity. And those judges who are sitting in the local and appeal courts today have not even begun to do so. And these people have been sitting there for many years. The General Prosecutor's Office has not been suspended. The State Bureau of Investigation, which was not introduced by the Anti-Corruption Court Act, was not established by the financial police. Not much has been done, not a lot of personnel issues have been resolved. There was no time in the coalition to consider the issue and appoint people to serve as head of the National Bank, head of the State Property Fund. There was no time for appointment and consideration of the head and members of the Court of Auditors. We have an illegal head and members of the Central Electoral Commission today. The appointment of people to these key positions in the State’s organs was not based on desire, time, or political will. However, it was time for Egor Sobolev to be released from office as head of the anticorruption committee. Obviously, this was the main task of authority for 2017. So, in summary, I want to say that there is no great joy in the economy. Despite the projected growth in the economy of 2-3 percent, which today was boasting about by the Prime Minister's rostrum, I want to talk about something completely different. About the fact that this year entrepreneurs have been marked and remembered by blocking mass tax notes on completely unjust, unreasonable, and inappropriate criteria set by the Ministry of Finance. Only yesterday's Parliament was able to resolve this issue and put an end to this disgraceful practice by unlocking those pamphlets that were blocked.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u142	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u143	Unlock those pads that were blocked on December 1st. So all of these tasks that I've heard are obviously Parliament's tasks for 2018. And I want to wish all of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u144	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Mishchenka. And you're next.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u145	Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivščina. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Have you felt any improvement this year for yourself, for your families? Well, I guess everyone's gonna say no. Maybe the units that are in power. Has one of the reforms that have been abrogated by power worked? It's probably not what didn't work, it's what we see after these reforms. We have not yet reached medical reform in the following year. And today, on my question to the Prime Minister, do they know how the pension reform was built and how many people received the benefits, he said, well, we did everything right. But they don't understand one thing, they don't go to people, they don't hear their pain -- that's their huge mistake. Because when people rise up, when they tell about the results of these reforms, when we bring them up, now it's the result, and where this money from the pension reform went, then everyone will shudder. The Prime Minister knows about this, because the experts who prepared it are inconvenient. I want to say that, unfortunately, there are a lot of questions now and from the front, including to me my voters who are talking, you know. It's like, "It's hard to look at the Supreme Council, and I want to spit in it. But we don't know who we're protecting, we know, we're protecting only the country and the people, but we're protecting you too. But sooner or later, the time will come when we will come and throw you out of here. Tell your Head of the Supreme Council of Peru 15-20 times not to impose lobby laws or invite national deputies who are not present to the session room so that he does not close his eyes to the buttoning that exists, under which slogans, that we will remove the buttonage he has come to this position. He doesn't hear those MPs, he doesn't give them a word that speaks against power and against it personally, but to others that smooth this power, he gives it a word." So I want to draw a conclusion and tell you all people about this conclusion that you first look not at the embroidery, not the patriotic things, not how the anthems sing, but look at what he's saying to this high office and what he's doing now. That is why I will now turn, not to Santa Claus, but to the Lord God. Lord God, give these leaders their minds!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u146	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Olga Belkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u147	Thank you, Mr. Head. Honorable Ukrainian citizens, Today there are several professional festivals in Ukraine. First of all, it's Energy Day. On behalf of my colleagues, from the committee, I want to welcome and thank those who, by their hard work, deliver energy to every Ukrainian home in all its forms. I think it's very important for each of us. I'm also pleased to note that this year, 2017, finally created strong preconditions for the rapid development of domestic gas industries. Thank you to colleagues who have supported my initiative to introduce stimulating taxation of new gas projects. This initiative was the result of many efforts to find support in government and in various parliamentary factions, which at last, after nearly two years of negotiations, became convinced of its importance and supported it when Parliament voted to amend the Tax Code. I'm sure our collective work on stimulating taxation will involve international investors in the field of modern technology. Also important was the support of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the first reading of the 3096 bill we initiated three years ago, which significantly simplifies the permit system for the gas industry. As of January 1, 2018, the gas-derived regions have received substantial additions to their local budgets on the basis of the initiative that was taken, again, from my initiative. These are essentially concrete steps on a difficult path towards increasing Ukrainian gas production and reducing Ukraine’s dependence on import gas. This is a concrete plan for Ukraine's energy independence. Individual thanks to every citizen who uses gas, electricity, both in his home and in his business today. All of this gives me confidence that in the future we will very soon become an energy-sufficient state and become a major player in the European market. It is also symbolic that today is also a celebration of Ukrainian diplomacy, and diplomacy in energy is more important than ever. The representatives of Naftogazu have just announced the details of Stockholm's arbitration, which was announced there today at the request of our subpoena, the first call by NAC "Naftogazu" to Gazprom. There will be no more "take and pay," no more high prices and no more political discounts for which Ukrainian interests were traded, no more extra cubic metres of gas on the shoulders of taxpayers in Ukraine. The next year is going to be a sign for us, we have to involve new investors in the gas industry, and I think together, we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u148	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u149	Parliament, the government, the President, all my colleagues in all factions, regardless of the names of these factions, I ask you to always support Ukrainian interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u150	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u151	Finally, on the day of the festival, I would like to wish light, warmth, Ukrainian gas and peace in every Ukrainian home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u152	Thank you. I'm continuing the meeting for 15 minutes for. Colleagues, there are three of our colleagues who signed up for the performance. And I think it would be fair if they could speak. This is Kishkar, this is Stasuk and Aresonkov. Two performances? Two performances? Two performances. Please, National Deputy Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u153	Thank you, Your Honor, for the opportunity to speak. Several statements from the Ukrainian People's Movement in the 1980s by Viacheslav Maximovich. Thank you for supporting the celebration at the national level of Viacheslav Maximovich’s birthday. And this is happening in all regions of Ukraine. The 24th will be the final stage of this in the Ukrainian House, at the celebration of the People's Movement first, and then at the festive events dedicated to its activities, its life course. I am pleased that yesterday the Constitutional Court, by its decision, lifted the party dictatorship, abolishing 3,700, which was predicted that, after the will of the people, it was possible to manipulate the will, change their lists to political parties, and bring to Parliament the wrong people for whom people voted. The second statement or not, is the exit from the "Block of Peter Prashenko" faction of two members of the People's Movement of Ukraine Victor Krivenk and Paul Kishkar. Of course, the reference to the problems that exist in the state, the state problems and the support of our anti-corruption bodies and the Attorney-General's Office, because it remains the same as the body that affects the fight against corruption and the support of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, and undoubtedly the fundamental reform that must be implemented by this call of the Supreme Council is the electoral system. Of course, the People’s Movement will insist that a proportional system of open - list elections be put in place. The institutions of the Ukrainian economy and the credit expert agency mentioned by Victor Halasyuk, and the support for the creation of industrial parks are rightful for the formation of an independent Ukraine. Of course, there are a number of personal questions left, and personally I do not investigate such violent killings as SergeyLichman and former mayor Mirgorod Wijacheslav Tretecsky. These are the references that we accumulate and send to the appropriate organs that remain uncontested. This is support, a strange support by the people of the Party of Regions, who are now either mayors or remain in the positions of the heads of the Reichs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u154	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u155	I think we can stop at one time or another and not support strange raids on the October palaces or breakthroughs, not support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u156	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy of Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u157	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! The year is ending, and we're summarizing. And, of course, the most important event in December was the adoption of the state budget for the following year. Today, there have been many different expressions, mostly critical ones, because, unfortunately, small financial reserves are virtually impossible to provide for everyone’s needs. I want to say that unfortunately, this budget did not take into account the full interest and need of a large social category of citizens -- those who were affected by the Chernobyl nuclear accident. And we talked about the third year in a row of 1.9 billion, the same number is based on the implementation of all state social programs. There is a catastrophic change in these programs, and I thank all the political factions that next year have shown a desire to continue working together to protect the interests of this category of citizens. I want to go to the Prime Minister and say that he and the Minister of Social Policy, Revo, have promised to work on Decree 1210, to change it to part of the regulation of the financial security of the Chernobyl population. And special attention to the provision of medical services to this category of citizens. But I would like to emphasize one more thing, once in our passion for budget adoption, we have not paid much attention to the adopted, extremely important document of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is a forest sector development strategy. And I want to say that after this adoption of the document across Ukraine, there was a mass protest by citizens, the state forests, the APC Lisbons, the working citizens came out with what they don't understand, what the Cabinet of Ministers is offering. I particularly liked the phrase that was in this document that "he doesn't need public and social discussion." Tell me, does the fate of the future of the Ukrainian forests not require discussion of a broad category of citizens? So I urge everyone today: next year, let's start with a specific question to the government: what will be the future state strategy for forest management? [[Applause]] I thank you, dear colleagues, for your successful work this year. There have been mistakes, and there have been achievements. I wish everyone health, energy, inspiration, tolerance in relations between MPs, between political factions and groups, and we will surely succeed. All Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u158	30 seconds for Stashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u159	I gave up my word because I think everyone's tired of listening, let's be honest, but traditional greetings. But when I heard that there was a schoolgirl on the balcony from the Darnicki district of Kiev from my constituency. [[Applause]] I went out to greet them, and. To greet them, to greet all the Ukrainians and to say that perhaps it is for the future that we should work so that we are not ashamed and that we should be proud of all the young people who do not yet vote, but there will be a moment when they will be responsible voters and will choose, perhaps better than we are, to this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-22-m0.u160	Everything? Thank you. Dear colleagues, let me remind you that from December 25th to January 5th, the national MPs will be working with the electorate, from January 9th to January 12th, the national deputies will be working on the committees. And the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, January 16, 2018, at 10 a.m. In this regard, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, welcome you to all the coming festivals, to our strength, mind, and love. The power to stand in the long run is still a struggle, a mind that will not allow us to lose what we have gained and love, for that is what leaves us human. Have a nice day! And I'll meet you in the new year.
