ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Can we get to the registration? Colleagues, please take up your jobs, and I'd like you to conduct your registration. [[12:03:56]] 367 national deputies registered. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Semina Igorovich Semenchenka. Welcome to your birthday. And today we are celebrating Journalist Day, and I would like to welcome our fellow journalists with their professional festival. It is impossible to imagine a free Ukraine without Ukrainian journalists. You've always been in a sharp fight for our country and around a lot on the cold February nights of Maidan, and during the ATO, and at a time when we've been making irreversible changes together in the country. I want to express my special thanks to the boys and girls who, with our fighters on the front Donbassa, are conducting the life of our war for independence, risking their lives every minute. Thank you all from the Supreme Council and all the Ukrainians. And let's welcome our colleagues with their professional holiday. Welcome, colleagues. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make a message at the beginning of our session regarding the election of the High Council for Human Rights. In accordance with the law, persons who claim to take office to meet the special criteria laid down in the Ukrainian Act on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine should be subject to a special examination under the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. The apparatus carried out all necessary organizational work to meet this requirement, to carry out a special inspection. Appropriate requests were sent on time to the National Agency for State Service. And on June 2nd, we received general information on the results of the special review of the information that the candidates submitted for this position. This general information indicates that, in view of the absence of complete information from NAMCs on the information contained in the NAMC candidates ’ declarations, it is appropriate to obtain additional supporting documents from the declarants or their explanation. And in fact, this puts us in the position that the special inspection is incomplete, NAZC needs further clarifications and additional materials from candidates for the Authorized Human Rights Council. And all of this makes it necessary to complete the special inspection procedure, according to the NAMC recommendations, before bringing the matter up for consideration in the session room. I would like to point out that we must act by law so that there is no basis for bringing a case before a court and to challenge the procedure for the election of the Human Rights Council. And so we must wait for the completion of the check, provide further explanations that NAMC requires so that no one can question and annul the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights. That's how we're gonna be. We'll be waiting for the end of the special inspection. And now we're moving on to the day-to-day issues. And the day begins, as always on Tuesday, with speeches from MP factions and groups, announcements, messages and announcements. And I'm asking all the factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to record a statement so that the "Council" system will establish a sequence of speakers. I ask everyone to record and ask all factions to participate in the record. Please record. Radical Party, Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u2	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to welcome all of Ukraine with an extremely important victory on the international front, this decision last week by the Stockholm Arbitration Court, which rejected Russia's claim to Gazprom to Ukraine for $54 billion. Under a gas contract signed in 2009 by Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna and her friend, President Volodymyr Putin, Ukraine, overpaid $6 billion each year. It's stolen money from the Ukrainians. Since Stockholm arbitration is not the Pecher District Court and not any other court that Mrs. Timoshenko can charge with ordering decisions, I hope that neither Mrs. Timoshenko, nor anyone else in this room question the Stockholm Arbitration Decision, I refer to Julia Volodymyrna. Julia, give back the money you stole from the Ukrainians! Six billion dollars a year on a gas contract you signed with your friend Putin! Today you're trying to prove that this is the best gas contract and that Ukraine's gas contract just won. Then I have a simple question, and where is the interest of the Ukrainians? The best gas contract that Russia has ever demanded $54 billion, where is the interest of the Ukrainians?Oh, my God! Putin's interest is 500 dollars a thousand dollars! I see your interest! Where is the interest of the Ukrainians?Oh, my God! When they were robbed on this contract! Another gas contract is about transiting Russian gas into Ukraine. For 10 years a deal is made without the right to watch the bets! We also demand a review of this gas contract! And finally, third. In connection with Tymoshenko and Putin’s signature of the gas contract, Yanukovic signed the shameful Harkovsky Agreements to obtain a gas discount. I demand that President Dustenk submit to Parliament a bill on the denunciation of the Kharkiv Treaties signed for the implementation of the Putin and Timoshenko gas contract. The Yulia Tymoshenko Gas Contracts, Vladimir Putin, is the financing of the Russian army that is killing our people on the front today! The Gas Agreements of Timoshenko and Putin is the most corrupt conspiracy mankind's history has ever known! And that's what we have to be responsible for! Responsibility: Return the stolen money! To get what Russia received today. Well, finally, the gas agreements of Timoshenko, the Kharkiv Agreements of Yanukovic and the Minsk Agreements of Dustcake are one link of the chain! These are anti - Ukrainian agreements where leaders are unable to defend Ukraine’s interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u3	From the Rebirth Party, Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. It's Bill's. Kulinich is handing Billowel over. [[B in m in s a l in]] Excuse me, Mr. Billowol. [[B in m in s a l in]] Excuse me, a minute, a line, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] The name Timoshenko was mentioned and the replica could only be the deputy mentioned. If. No, it's not. Colleagues, I'm asking you to calm down in the hall. I would like to remind you that the MP who used offensive words has the right to a replica. A national MP has no right to pass the word. If Julia demands a Volodymyrical word, please speak. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u4	The faction was named.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u5	Colleagues, let's get this sorted out, let's get Billowall on the stand, let's get this sorted out. Please, Billowel, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u6	Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! I'd like to take this opportunity to welcome all our journalists with a professional holiday today from all the MPs, from the political party of Rebirth, from our group, to thank you for your professional titanium work, to wish you good health, peace, for the development of our beautiful Ukraine. Our group is represented by majors, we worked in the districts, and it worked so well that last week the last bells were made in all the schools of our country. And so a lot of questions our teachers, parents have been asking us, politicians, about the creation of schools that are so receptive to our performances today. We welcome the creation of resilient schools, which started with the Ministry of Education. But today's high school is modern computer classes, it's modernizing physics offices, it's modernizing chemistry offices, it's about raising wages. And we're addressing today when we haven't created those conditions for them to exist, so that what we have today is our high-priced secondary education that the state needs to support. And most importantly, it needs funding from the state budget. I want to give you one example, we remember how it was with vocational and technical schools when they were transferred to local budgets and this ended, the vast majority of them were closed, shortened. And today some are just working for us in big cities. The second question we were asked is the question of a united territorial community. We're starting to talk today about the problem, the problem of hospital districts in medicine. If we do not unite our efforts today and that the National Reform Council has taken this initiative and brought it to Parliament, we must take such legislative initiatives to save our health system today. To date, hospital districts that have been imposed do not solve the issue of communication, railway connections, human expertise, and modernization. And today we see the outflow and release of many experts in the middle and higher ranks that are going to the countries of Europe and Israel. Therefore, honourable national MPs, I appeal to you, today, as never before, we must support our health care system, today more than ever, we must support those legislative initiatives. But today, more than ever, we must transfer these powers to places, because reform is not resolved, it is not imposed from the top, the reform begins from the bottom, and the state by legislative initiatives, the financing must provide these processes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u7	From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Dear people of Ukraine! The Stockholm Arbitration Court's victory is a confirmation that the strategic plan of Arsenius Yatsenuk for Ukraine's energy independence is correct. By its decision, the Stockholm Arbitration Court restored justice and revoked the cable terms of the treaty signed in 2009. The way to this victory began in 2014, when Prime Minister Arsenius Yatzenuk commissioned the initiation of a lawsuit before the International Court of Arbitration. To those with short memory, I want to remind them of early 2014 events. There was no money in the treasury, no debt for gas in front of Russia's Gazprom for the gas that was stolen by Yanuković-Lywockin's gang over $3 billion, a cloudy Russian price, and no gas was supplied without a prepayment. At that time, a well-balanced political decision was made to appeal to Gazprom. Ukraine's 47 billion not to blame for Russia's Gazprom and Putin, it's more than a year's budget for Ukraine, it's a thousand dollars that every Ukrainian citizen of Putin and Russia's Gazprom would have paid on a contract, even one that would have been born tomorrow. We have moved on to the purchase of the necessary gas in the EU. Large and affordable subsidies for the population, the beginning of natural gas market reform, the breaking of oil schemes and the restructuring of Naftogazu, finally, we have to start turning distribution networks into state and municipal property. These are the initiatives of Prime Minister Yatsenuk. All these decisions were made only by the political will of Arsenius Yatsenuk. Next. Bills to continue the reform of the judiciary are in place this week. It is good that the discussion began with the creation of anticorruption courts. But the People's Front have been and remain among the main initiators of judicial reform. We support the establishment of an anti-corruption chamber in the Supreme Court. Now the Supreme Court judges are on their way, and let's not delay, let's create a Supreme Court Chamber on Anti-Corruption. Next. The People's Front for almost two years advocated the return of Yanukovich's stolen assets and his surrounding government funds. We've finally recovered $1.5 billion from the special confiscation regime, and we've repeatedly stressed that this money should go to support national security and improve the welfare of citizens. We also suggest that 500 million dollars be sent to the border engineering facility with Russia. I stress that, according to a similar Ukrainian project, the same engineering buildings on the border with Russia are being built by Lithuania and other NATO states. A closed border with Russia is a guarantee of national security. In addition, the People's Front proposes, from the confiscated money Yanukovich, to allocate 250 million dollars to the creation and financing of Ukraine's national start-up fund. This is an IT development fund that addresses the most national economic, social problems. Such funds are successful and beneficial in the United States, France, India, and elsewhere. Our talented boys and girls should be able to develop the Ukrainian IT sector, get a job here, and benefit our economy in their country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u9	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u10	National security is also covered by the visa regime with Russia. The People's Front turns to Parliament, to support the bill, and eventually to introduce a visa regime with an aggressor country. After a visa-free regime is introduced from June 11 to 12, our citizens will be able to travel freely in Europe. But we have to do everything we can to make sure that the visa regime with the aggressor country is introduced. And lastly, I welcome our colleagues from the fourth branch of power with a professional holiday, with the day of the journalist. Today, in Ukraine, the unprecedented conditions for free speech, the only obstacle, are the existence of an entire network of proselyte media that deliberately distorts reality, seeking to sow chaos, strife, and infidelity.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I want to explain. So if the name in the offending manner is mentioned, the MP has the same right to reply if the faction is mentioned. I gave an order to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to see if a faction had been mentioned on the transcript. If the faction has been mentioned, I will give the floor to the replication, if the faction has not been mentioned, the word can only be given to the deputy mentioned in the speech. The next thing you know, colleagues, we've had a deal here with you on several occasions that when factions are recorded, everyone is recorded, and the "Council" system itself determines the sequence of performances. Today we see again just an attempt at manipulations not to record, and then an appeal to the Rules that every faction has the right to speak. It's not fair, it's unfair to your colleagues. And I, when I spoke to the MPs or no one denied it, everyone supported that idea. I think it's a wrong trend again, and it's a manipulation in the hall when there's no recording. When I get the transcript, then I'll make the right decision. I now invite you to the word from the Self-Help faction of Brezjuk Oleg Romanovich. While Oleg is coming, Mr. Oleg, I'll give you time, look at the apparatus on the transcript, it's only a name that's been mentioned, the faction wasn't cursed. Please, Oleg Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u12	Reconstruction, the building up of the state is a big deal. A great deal has been called the construction of the state of Blessed Lyubomir Guzar, not an easy one. On the way to this reconstruction there are victories and there are defeats. One of the greatest damage on the road to rebuilding the state is the accumulation of material goods by political forces that are ruining a great deal. Because they have ruined this great cause in the last 25 years, especially in the last 15 years, it has been robbed and thrown into war. From May 1 to yesterday, 18 soldiers of the Ukrainian Armed Forces were killed. What about the tactics of Ukraine’s sovereignty in relation to war? Who are they talking to? Who are they negotiating with? For who? The enemy or the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian soldier? Why is there no law of reality in this House to this day, the Act on Occupied Territories? Who will put points above "and" and say that the enemy has come to our land, and our people are deprived of their rights in this territory, and we are fighting an eternal enemy. Today we all refer to the Stockholm Court of Arbitration. Yes, this is another evidence that the Ukrainian authorities have not been on the side of Ukrainian people for the past 15 years but have served the enemy because he made money on Ukrainian people. But I want to ask you, what arbitration court is going to judge the Ukrainian authority that adopted Rotterdam Plus last year, and the Ukrainian people have paid for it with their money. Don't argue, 80 percent of you in one party, in a party of oligarchs working for a Russian enemy. Let us adopt the Anticorruption Court Act and sit down those who have to sit down rather than manipulate chambers that are dependent on the authority of the oligarchs. Let's adopt the Occupied Areas Act and protect the Ukrainian people, let's adopt the Elections Act to the Supreme Council on a proportional basis with open lists, so that there are no oligarchs on the lists who then lose the courts in the Stockholm Court. Today, the international community is becoming more protective of Ukrainians than the Ukrainian authorities. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u13	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u14	But, honourable deputies of all factions, but we're with you today, we're doing a great deal of building the Ukrainian state in an unforgivable time. Let us build up and not be afraid to stand on the throat of our song! Let this be the song of the Ukrainian people who will win the war with the enemy and become rich, rich, and believe in their authority, which will be honest and open to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u15	Alexander Wilkul, of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u16	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! An hour ago, a meeting of the Conciliation Council ended. There won't be any, the agenda's empty again. We view it as a imitation of work, a distraction from the painful problems that exist in the country today. The position of our faction, the main thing that should be in order of the day, is a package of laws after the crisis. But before that, we need to listen to the government report and consider the program. This is our principle of requirement. I want to focus on making a crisis exit program, not a road map" to meet the IMF requirements, which is where the main discussions are going. We are witnessing a steep deindustrialization of the country. In recent years, entire industries have disappeared. In a car of eight companies, two were left, the aircraft was stopped, shipbuilding, and space - based problems. This sad list can be continued, but these are all jobs, budget filling and the Pension Fund, which is currently under discussion. So far, 8 million Ukrainian migrants are filling pension funds and budgets in other countries. In a situation where a worker has a pensioner, it is difficult at all to talk about reforming the Pension Fund as such. So the first step in pension reform is to start an economy and create new jobs, which will allow for the return of Ukrainians from abroad. Instead, the authorities encourage an increase in radicalism in the state, which is reflected in the capture of district and city councils, the insolent attack on opposition, in fact, of terror. As an example, an infamous attack on a female MP, Natalia Royal, at the Women for Peace Forum, which took place in Odessa, could actually lose sight. As always, there are no guilty, radicals can do anything! Attempts to rename streets and areas into a treaty to a radically tuned part of society, leading to increased tensions in the state as a whole. The liberator of Kiev, General Vatuin, does not even fall under your law of decommunization. We demand an end to the pressure on the opposition, including in the walls of Parliament, to investigate the attack on the representative of the Opposition Block and to give a proper assessment by the law enforcement authorities. Once again, I stress the position of our faction: all Parliament's efforts should focus on drafting legislation to come out of the crisis, including supporting socially significant bills for the 2 million displaced people who today remain out of control. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u17	From the "Will of the People" group, Litvin Volodymir Mihajlovich. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u18	Dear Head, your esteemed colleagues, it seems that the language of hatred is beginning to dominate us again in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think whoever's been in the district and working here will back me up in what we're talking about today, it's interesting to people like newspapers last week. Moreover, they do not have the ability to buy and read these newspapers. At the same time, the specific problems that afflict people are totally free from authority. What I'm talking about is a specific example. Today, people in Baranovsky and other parts of the Žitomir region are blocking roads again, and there are no roads -- there are directions, because the next one is the pollution of the Rivers of Gomorrah and the Sun. A year ago, this event took place. As a national MP, where people didn't go, to local authorities, the response is zero. A month ago, I again appealed to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from this rostrum: please state the order. No, pollution, environmental disaster continues. The point is that high - ranking dignitaries in Kiev do not drink this water. The thing is, they're worried about big reforms, and they're worried about ordinary Ukrainians. So on behalf of the people today, I reiterate my demand. One is to give public information, which is owned by enterprises, such as the Ponkin paper factory, which dumps impurities into the river. To give a mandate to the Cabinet of Ministers, to carry out proper water treatment, to allocate the necessary funds, and eventually to create normal conditions for people's lives. I ask that this appeal be regarded as a question of the MPs. Tomorrow people are going to come here to Kiev to block the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council. Can we not solve this problem? But I think because it doesn't work out, someone very "high" in Kiev is covering up this business and they're essentially covering up the subject of banditry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u19	Peter Dustenka's Block. Shinkovic Andry Vasilovich gives Brezenkov his word. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u20	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! On behalf of the faction, I wanted to greet the journalists with a professional holiday. Thanks to your work, too, we have the opportunity to follow the path of reform. It is one such reform that we would like to talk about today. Today, national MPs should take the first step towards the implementation of health sector reform and support the inclusion in the agenda of a day-to-day amended and composite bill that will allow for the fundamental modernization of medicine in Ukraine. I remind you, three weeks ago, the faction of "Peter Prashenko's Block" asked not to include the bills proposed by the government and the MoH in the agenda, because they were underworked in the MP's room and had no chance of going into the session room. That's why the faction asked to initiate the creation of a working group that within three weeks was quite successful and meaningfully able to lay the legislative foundation for the transition from the Soviet medical system to the progressive modern Western. The task of medical reform complicates a very limited time frame for adoption. The relevant law needs to be adopted during the sixth session, otherwise the Ministry of Health will not be able to put the necessary funds into the budget for the following year, which in turn will undermine the reform of at least part of primary medicine. Deputies have no right to leave society with an outdated and low - efficiency health system that continues to function today. So already this week, the draft law, more faithfully, draft laws, two laws -- 6327 and 6329 -- must overcome the first reading and move on to the second. It is worth noting that despite the rush of preparation, the reform project is of a very high quality. The development was carried out by the best team of medical authorities, representatives of the Ministry of Health, many of our fellow MPs, for whom we owe them separately. Members of the National Reform Board, Kabminu representatives, Many proposals were made by the President of Ukraine himself. There's a new approach to budgeting, there's going to be a refusal to keep a bed in hospitals, and instead, the money will follow the patient directly. It is planned that the amount of funds that will follow the patient in the near future will be at least $110 per patient and gradually increase over the years. Such an individual approach works in the world’s leading countries, providing high - quality medical services. Now in the Ukrainian hospital, medical personnel will be able to obtain between 10 and 23,000 dollars from January 1, 2018. I emphasize that despite fundamental changes, medicine remains free of charge for all ATO participants and benefits for vulnerable populations will be saved. All Ukrainian citizens will have the right to a guaranteed package of medical services. Dear colleagues, this is really an important reform that the whole country is looking for. In doing so, Parliament must show maximum coherence and operationality in making key decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u21	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u22	Ten seconds. Therefore, the Peter Prashenka faction calls on all colleagues to be responsible and to give the utmost attention to the fundamental development and transformation of the health sector in Ukraine. Thank you very much, and please support the bill for inclusion in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u23	Thank you. As soon as the government puts them in Parliament, we'll put them in the order of the day session today. It's from the Fatherland faction, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna. And a minute ago, as her last name was mentioned. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u24	I am now addressing the people of Ukraine, the people who are listening to the Parliament now. The first thing I want to say is a fact that most people in Ukraine know. Ukraine is now ruled by an unprecedented, cynical, corrupt mob, as well as desert bells, which, for money and preferences, serve it with their tongues of every kind. That's why I'd like to say that all the agendas of the Supreme Council, the government meetings are focused on lobbyist, totally corrupt goals and things. And I don't agree that the agenda for today is empty. No, he's not empty this week. It has here, in order of the day, a corrupt privatization of the state's alcohol industry. It has here, in the daytime order, called the so-called judicial reform of depriving people of their last rights in the courts, and in addition the write-off of their accounts of money, property, property for any debt owed to the state without the knowledge of the people. And many others -- pension reforms, health protection -- energy reform, gas market reforms -- are all about destroying the Ukrainian nation. And I understand that Fatherland, and I'm personally in this Mafia, which has united the old environment of the oligarchik Yanukovich and the new environment of the old oligarch Prashenko, into one team against the Fatherland, against me personally. And that's why today they're trying to use the Stockholm Court's decision on the 2009 gas contract to discredit the opposition party "The Fatherland" and me personally. That is why I would like to give people a few important facts. First of all, I have Janukovich-Kyrieev's sentence against me in my hands. Do you suspect that Yanukovic, Kiriev, Azarov, my friends' wheat? Open it up, it's on the Internet, on page 14, it's clear that in 2009, the price of natural gas after signing the 2009 contract was $232,98. This is proved by Kyrie’s judgment! And that's why the lie, the overpayment of $450, is a lie. Next. Today, Ukrainian gas is sold by the people of Ukraine for $285 per thousand cubic metres. Fifty dollars is worth more than after the 2009 contract. And that means that once this power is thrown out of existence, the criminal case will be broken, I'm sure, against those who have set $285. The price of 450-500 in my administration has never been in my life! Next, take it or pay it. This principle was typical in 2009 in a contract in all countries that consumed Russian gas — Germany, Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia and so on! But in 2011 there was an antitrust investigation by the European Commission. And the European Commission has declared this paragraph absolutely political and the enjoyment of the monopoly rights of Gazprom for political purposes. After that, Germany, the Czech Republic, Poland, the other countries abolished the principle of “take or pay” in court.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u25	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u26	in judicial or judicial order. Ukraine did the same. And what's overpaid by Yanukovic is that the court found that Janukovitch was overpaid in 2011-2013, contrary to the contract that was signed! And then the minister of economy Janukovitch must be responsible, who signed it and returned the money to the state! And all those who try to use it for political purposes today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u27	Colleagues, speaking time from factions and groups is over. But before we go into the agenda, I want to say that there's been a statement in the Presidium to announce a break from two factions: the People's Front faction and the Prashenko Block. But the authors are ready to replace the break from the rostrum. And then we immediately move on to the issues of order of the day. And I'd like to invite you to speak to the head of the "Peter Prashenko" faction, Arthur Gerasimov. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u28	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Here's this contract. I want to remind you that when it was signed, unfortunately, the whole country couldn't find out, and only because of the Ukrainian journalists that I sincerely welcome today with the holiday has this contract become open. In fact, Stockholm's arbitration has released the Ukrainian people for days from the gas contract fair with Gazprom. I emphasize that an independent international court has made decisions that restore justice. Ukraine will now not pay the outstanding gas according to the "take or pay" principle. Because imagine, we had to pay for what didn't even come to Ukraine, and the price of energy resources would no longer be a tool of pressure and blackmail on the part of Russia. The Stockholm Arbitral Decisions prove the absolute insubstantiation of Ukraine's contract with Gazprom signed by former Prime Minister Julius Volodymyrný Timoshenko. Some of the basics of this contract. The price is $450. Foreign media are now providing information, and this is also confirmed by experts who have overpaid nearly $18 billion over the years. We didn't get that transit contract for nearly $12 billion. Therefore, I would like to say that in view of this we are addressing and calling on the National Security and Defence Committee and the Anti-Corruption Committee to immediately call on former Prime Minister Julius Timoshenko to consider the issue of treason and the corruption component of the 2009 gas contract. Consider publicly, consider openly, and then give us all the information that was there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u29	Thank you. Replica, one minute, and let's move on to the agenda. Please, one minute. And, colleagues, if you'd like to come into the hall, in a minute we'll move on to the agenda. Please, one minute, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u30	It was really nice to hear from this rostrum from a former district, from a person who has killers like Motorola and something like that. Bezler, Bezler worked as a helper, shot people, and it was good to hear about treason. But I want to tell you right now, it's absolutely clear that the lawsuit to Stockholm arbitration was only filed by this gang after 2011, 2012 and 2013. If there were overpayments in 2009, why didn't they file? So it's Janukovich's overpayment, and they only proved it because it was against the contract. And now I want to make it clear that if you're going to listen to this betrayal, Peter Dustynk is for working as the minister of the economy in the government of Yanukovic, he's allowed overpayment under this contract in violation of the Russian Federation's money contract. And now it goes on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u31	30 seconds. Thank you. So, colleagues, at the beginning of the day’s agenda, there are questions that should unite the hall. And I hope that we can get through it effectively and quickly. I would like to point out that today there is a rather significant block of inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Among them are extremely important issues both of different factions and of government. I would like to point out the same thing, we are waiting, and perhaps we have already brought to the Supreme Council a bill to the government on health sector reform. As soon as they're brought in, we'll put them to the vote for inclusion in the agenda. But before starting this block, there are two questions that I am convinced will be able to unite the hall and move on to the first one. This is a draft Act amending article 31 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine on the Transport of Persons with Disabilities (numbers 6155 and 6155-1). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, please support the review of the reduced procedure, we vote. [[12:47:04]] For 176 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Burbak Maxim Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u32	Honourable National Deputies, Bill 6155, has been prepared to establish equal opportunities for people with disabilities to receive rehabilitation services regardless of the location of the rehabilitation institution. To this end, it is proposed that rehabilitation facilities located in cities be provided with free transportation services for people with disabilities in their rehabilitation. It is an opportunity to provide a person with disabilities from the station to the rehabilitation facility and vice versa. Today, according to article 31 of the Law on Rehabilitation, only rehabilitation facilities located in rural areas have such a right. The bill does not require additional expenditure because the right to provide such transport services is already provided for in the provisions on rehabilitation institutions within the limits of the funds allocated to the maintenance of the rehabilitation institution. The bill was designed to support the Ministry of Social Policy on the basis of their bill 5001. Please support the bill as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the bill does not apply to the issue of the extended passage of suitable categories of persons in urban, suburban and intercity transport. The bill says that the rehabilitation facility will bring a person with disabilities from the station to the rehabilitation facility and vice versa. I would like to support you as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u33	Thank you. Yes, for good reason, there is no author of an alternative bill. And that's why I'm giving the floor to a report to the head of the Committee on Veterans, the participants in the fights of Trelyakow Alexander Yuriovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u34	As already stated, Bill 6155 proposes that rehabilitation agencies be able to provide, regardless of their location, in rural areas or in the city, with transport services for people with disabilities who are in their rehabilitation. Bill 6155-1 additionally proposes to restore all the benefits that were previously adopted, which were chosen by Bill 76. The main scientific and expert office supports the adoption of both bills in the first reading. But Bill 6155 is proposed to be adopted in the first reading and in general. I would like to point out that, at the same time, I emphasize that there is a bill 2069 on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, prepared by a committee that deals with this issue in a comprehensive manner. Please support the committee's decision and accept the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u35	Thank you. And I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. Melnik Sergey Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u36	The Petra Prashenko Block supports the bill. I want to say that today there is a standard in the rural areas. But all the rest of the rehabilitation centers are running free of charge today. In order to avoid any observations in the financial inspection and the possibility of predicting it in the funds provided by the bill, the issue is being settled. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u37	Thank you. Romanova Anna Anatoliyevna, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u38	Please pass the word to a fellow Roman Semenazi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u39	The Self-Help faction will support Bill 6155. But the life of people with disabilities is a long and overly difficult distance with the enormous obstacles that Ukrainians actually face every day. Uncomfortable or even absent pandas, low-function prosthetics and inadequate wheelchairs, no quality rehabilitation, expensive drugs. And this is not an exhaustive list of realities that thousands of Ukrainians face every day. It is noteworthy that about 2.5 million people with disabilities in Ukraine today have almost half a million children. Moreover, it should also be said that since the beginning of the war, the Ukrainian-Russian war, such persons have increased by as much as 100,000. This means that Ukraine needs an updated modern, complex legislation to solve the rehabilitation problems of such individuals. Unfortunately, the bill is too narrow. It proposes to harmonize legislation with realities, namely, the provision of transport services for persons with disabilities. However, the drafters of the bill, without noting the cost of additional services for persons with disabilities, provide for the transfer of funding either to a rehabilitation institution or to local self - government bodies. Dear colleagues, there has been a strange trend since 2016: with each law, the central authority is trying to transfer as much expenditure as possible to local self-government authorities, but there is not even a discussion about expanding the tax base for saturation, increasing the income of local budgets. I think this law needs to be worked out between first and second reading to understand in what financial way it provides a really important need for people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, there will be a vote in three minutes, so please, I'm inviting the deputies into the hall. I now give the floor to the Balitsky Eugen Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Papiev Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u42	Thank you. Honorable National MPs, respected TV viewers who watch live television! This bill, which amends the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, is an important bill, and I would like to stress that it is not only this, 6155, but there is an alternative bill that is presented by our colleague, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Natalia Kraljevska, and he will be considered next. I would like to inform all the Ukrainian national deputies that today, for objective reasons, the author of the second alternative bill will not be able to report it as a result of the shameful act that took place in Odessa when an attack was carried out on the Ukrainian national deputy, our colleague. I would ask that we comply with the rules of current legislation of Ukraine, because the Ukrainian National Deputy is a representative of the Ukrainian people in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, and more importantly, it is a person who exercises the authority of the State. We need to put a veil on these radicals today, who are absolutely in violation of all the norms of the current Ukrainian legislation and are violent against the Ukrainian people's deputies. Dear colleagues, these bills that are under consideration today must be supported, and the Opposition Block will be supported in the first reading on the basis. And why should we do that in the first reading? Because all the bills sound good, but there's no big deal -- there's no funding. And when it's written in the Explanatory Note that these bills don't need any more funding, that's not true. Because the rehabilitation agency has a government budget or local budgets to compensate for these expenses, for this is a duty of the State. And that's what we're going to propose to the second reading. So I propose to vote on the basis, and we have suggestions and comments on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u43	Please, from the Radical Party, Andry Lozový, two minutes. And, colleagues, this is a closing statement, and then we go to the vote. I'm asking all the deputies to come to the hall. Please, Andrew Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u44	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Socrates, Alexander the Great, Gaius Julius Caesar, the apostle Paul, Molier, Lord Byron, Cardinal Richelieu, Karl V, Napoleon Bonaparte, Gustav Flauber, Alfred Nobel, Feder Dostoyevsky, Pope Pius IX, Vincent van Gogh — all of these people were united by a terrible disease — epilepsy. In the world today, about 65 million people suffer from one percent of the earth’s population. There are now 450,000 people living in Ukraine with this disease. 450,000 of our fellow citizens, our brothers and sisters of the Ukrainians. Sadly, it is almost impossible to determine the cause of this disease. Medical treatment helps 50 percent, at best 60 percent, and is extremely expensive. There are options for surgery, which are extremely expensive and also not always effective. Most of our citizens, who have such a terrible disease, must live with it. Worst of all, there are no symptoms of attack, they happen suddenly. Wise people in the United States have developed an indispensable thing for those suffering from epilepsy, the Embrace bracelet. I personally know a family where a son with such a terrible illness is ordered. You can order it in the United States, it costs about 6,000 dollars. These people can afford it, but unfortunately not every Ukrainian person with such a disease can afford as many as 6,000 dollars. That is why I call on the Ministry of Health to provide the government’s programme to provide people with epilepsy with Embrace bracelets. Now, most importantly, when this family of my friends, where the son is sick, is an extremely talented young man.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u45	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u46	where he was sick with such a terrible disease, ordered the bracelet, paid the money, waited two months for him to come from the United States. When they finally get this one. The long-awaited thing that this guy needs to live more or less normal to live as a normal person, so that his family can know, because this bracelet tells his family about the attacks, the symptoms, and in many cases can save a person with epilepsy, life, that there are several countries in the world where.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u47	Let's move on to making a decision, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to take their seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please come into the hall, take your jobs. Colleagues, we're not going out. We're going into the hall. Colleagues, it was only from the head of the committee that they were asked to accept as a basis and as a whole. Let's give it 30 seconds, Alexander Trelyakow, to confirm this position. Please, Treyakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u48	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Bill 6155 concerns a total of 8 rehabilitation institutions, 8. If we do not accept this bill as a basis and as a whole, the disabled will not be able to reach them in the summer. The police found additional funds. The committee held all negotiations with the local authorities, where these 8 institutions are located. I very much ask the Supreme Council to support this bill as a whole. Once again, it's only 8 institutions under the law. I'm telling you, there's a lot of money. We have negotiated with the local authorities, everyone is very much asking to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u49	Thank you. We've got a representative here. Literally 30 seconds, give your position. Turn on Fedorovich Natalija's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u50	Thank you very much. I just want to make it clear that all those 8 rehabilitation facilities have their own transportation services, and the point is that they have the right to transport not only in the city of the city where they are, but also those who come from other cities for rehabilitation. So it's not about extra expenses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u51	Thank you. So, colleagues, all situations are clarified. And I would like to propose to the committee a draft Act amending article 31 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine on the transport of persons with disabilities, first of all 6155, on the basis of and in general. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please vote. [[13:01:28]] For 309 The law is passed. I said it was a law that would unite the hall. And we move on to the next equally important law on local election financing. Colleagues, a very important bill that makes changes to the budget (6431), and we move on to its consideration. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the National Budget for Ukraine 2017 (on the provision of funding for local elections). And I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. We're voting for a reduced procedure. [[13:02:20]] For 197 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Knazevitch Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, I will try to be very brief and platypus. The point is that the Central Election Commission has asked me, as the head of the profiling committee, to support their initiative on the need to amend the National Budget Act 2017 in part of the increase in subsidies to local budgets for the conduct of local elections. You know, we've foreseen an appropriate amount of money while we're adopting a budget of 20 million dollars, but life has made adjustments and at this point, there's no more of it. What's more, you know, the next Sunday, there's going to be a series of out-of-court elections that we've scheduled with you, 21 for the village head, one for the village head, one for the city. And even in this election, unfortunately, there is no cost, so the territorial election commissions have to work in debt, providing appropriate guarantee letters with further payment of services. In addition, 34 of the Central Electoral Commission has been contacted by this state of affairs. district government authorities have called for the appointment of 34 first elections in the united territorial communities. By the end of the year, according to the information available to the CLTC, such elections will be proposed in 503 united communities. So, of course, if we are willing to continue to take the path of voluntary unification of the territorial communities and holding the first elections in such communities, it is our duty with you to increase the corresponding budget of the Central Electoral Commission, to amend the State Budget Act in part of the subsidy to local budgets. I think it's a non-political decision, but at the same time, all political parties, political factions are interested in ensuring that the local election process takes place rhythmically and in accordance with legislation. Please support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u53	Thank you, Your Honor. Please give the floor to the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, John Kulichenk. Please, Mr. John, let me speak to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u54	Dear National Deputies, invited, the Budget Committee on May 24 discussed draft Law No. 6431. The adoption of the bill, as noted, was made necessary by the holding of out - of - turn local elections and the first elections in united territorial communities. In order to achieve this goal, it is proposed to increase the amount of subsidies for local elections by 272.3 million, increasing the general budget’s income by the same amount, namely when the congregation acquires ownership of light cars. Thus, the proposals for changes to the state budget are balanced. At the same time, the draft law does not fully meet the requirements of standard-setting technology, which prompted the Committee to make proposals of an editorial and technical legal nature. In view of the above, the appointed committee adopted the following decision: recommending Bill 6431 to the Supreme Council as a result of the first reading review to be adopted on the basis and as a whole, taking into account the proposals made in the letter to the committee. Appropriately, the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, should, in the drafting of the relevant law, impose the necessary editorial and technical legal remedies relating to the said decision of the committee. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u55	Thank you for your presentation. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this technical? Yes. Please sign up from factions for discussion. Please, Sergey Eutuszek gives the word to Mr. Kirilenko. Please, Ivan Grigorovich, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u56	Ivan Kirilenko, "Fatherland" faction. I'm also going to the author of the bill, and I'm going to the profile committee, and I'm going to my colleagues on the floor. Dear colleagues! Clearly, the process goes irreversibly, the communities unite, whether voluntarily or by force, these are details. And it is clear that the united communities need the next budget. Many functions are transferred, many credentials are passed on, and new sources of funding are transferred. We understand that this year the process has to be completed, it's going faster. And every submission to the Central Election Commission forces the CEC to make a decision. There's an offer like that. We'll support "Paternity", a positive vote on one condition. Friends! Summer is where to spend these nearly 300 million. We are always lacking in the healing of children. We're always short on vacations for teachers. We don't have enough textbooks, we start a school year, and we don't have any textbooks. We're running out of roads to prepare for the winter. There is a proposal to support this bill. But one condition: to run the elections in the fall, for example, October-November, and not 34 communities, but the reporter said it would apply to 500 communities. Spend them once, not ten times a year spending 30-40 communities, and the money keeps multiplying, multiplying, spending on electoral companies. Spend it economically once. Make the election one time. And spend the fall. And it's rational for a summer to spend money on what I said. Under these conditions, Fatherland will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u57	Thank you, Your Honor. Please. Mr. Kuprienka is the national deputy of the Wolf word from the Radical Party. Please, Mr. Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u58	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Dear colleagues! In fact, the important thing is that we make changes in the budget, we spend money on elections. Because the unification of communities, the decentralization we have declared long ago, and we say that it is necessary to do so. The big question to power, what, have we just learned that these elections are to be held? What have we just learned about the fact that elections need to be held almost every Sunday to finance the CVA so that it doesn't sit without a job? Those who have been suspended seven years ago continue to receive wages, bonuses, and so forth. What did the authorities think when they accepted the budget?Oh, my God! Oleg Láška's radical party will support the changes. But notice, bill number 6431! Six thousand four hundred thirty-first! What about those bills on budget changes, such as the financing of the institutions of Amos and Shalimov, which under number 5723, five thousand seven hundred, are still not being considered in the hall? Where is the financing of our medicine, which makes it superfluous, the most modern? Not funded since June! There's nothing to pay for. There's nothing to pay for a utility. People are getting laid off, not ordinary people, medical professionals! Those who transplant hearts to the common people! And we don't give them funding, we don't pay them! So, honourable colleagues, of course, we have to vote in favour of a budget change in order to give money to the election. But let us be wise and stately men, and first think of those who save our lives, those who save people’s health! And do it as a minimum in a row, and look at the bills. And I urge the leadership of the Supreme Council to return and consider Bill 5723.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u59	Thank you. Please, the People's Front National Deputy of Fedoruk. Dear colleagues! From the People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u60	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! Fedoruk, 201 constituency, People's Front. The People's Front faction will certainly support this bill because it was initiated by the government of Yatsenuk and continued by the government of Groysman decentralization, the increasing role of local communities in our nation's life has produced good results. We find out all the time. And what colleagues today practically all of the factions are supporting this bill, supporting decentralization reform, is that it's going to be irreversible. You and I have not had much time left to carry out this very reform in a voluntary community union, for in a year it will be very difficult to talk about it, or it will be extremely difficult to do so, because the country will join the election process of the President and the Supreme Council. Therefore, I urge everyone to support the bill and to allow tens or perhaps hundreds of united communities to hold the first elections and, in the appropriate cases, to hold consecutive elections of those councils or heads in which there is a need. The People's Front faction supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u61	Thank you for your position. Please, the People's Deputies of the Opposition Block. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u62	Respectable citizens, respected colleagues, have heard much about decentralization in these walls, about voluntary unification of the territorial communities. What voluntary unifications of the territorial communities were made if they had been amended by the Ukrainian Budget Code, which had been taken from the territorial communities of villages, cities, villages, and villages for the income of individuals, transferring them to the district level and to the level of the united territorial communities? This is not a voluntary unification of the territorial community, it is a forceful union of the territorial community, since appropriate plans for the forward-looking development of areas approved by the central executive body, the Cabinet of Ministers. What kind of volunteering may this be? So the opposition bloc faction, without supporting the concept of decentralization, which was put in place by a valid authority, because it has nothing to do with the voluntaryness of these united territorial communities, except for some very small cases, and financially, we can't support these elections at all. Because, in fact, these legislative changes lead to the expulsion of these cities, villages and villages into unified territorial communities to obtain any financial security, since 50 percent of the financial security is local budgets, the VAT, which has actually taken over the government. This is a 25 - percent PFO that has been eliminated since 2015 by cities, villages, and villages.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u63	Thank you. Please, from Self-Help, the People's Deputy of Semimenach.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! Dear Madam Chairman! Self-help will support this bill. Of course, elections in united territorial communities are an important step in strengthening and developing local self - government. However, I would like to draw my respectable colleagues to a completely different but equally important point in local self - government. On February 3, this year, unfortunately, the city’s capital, Lucca, the district center, in the westernmost region of Ukraine, Mikola Romanyuk, came to life. Since then, the city council has actually been paralysed. It was only today that the aunt surrounded Lutsky City Council and prevented her from working. I want to ask a public question to the Head of the Supreme Council, the Parliament, the Preparatory Committee, why, four months after the death of the city’s head, the Supreme Council failed to carry out its duties, did not appoint an election to the city’s next election in Lutsk. Only legitimate elections will restore order and peace to the city of Lutsk. That is why we call on Parliament and the Committee of Profiles to consider this issue and to appoint it immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u65	So, colleagues, now the committee head is going to sum it up, and we're going to the vote in a minute. I very much ask all the national deputies to invite to the Hall and the Secretariat of the Supreme Council, and the heads of the factions. One minute, Ruslan Knazevitch, and we're going to the vote. Do not go out, but go into the hall, colleagues. Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u66	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, since I have been approached by speakers to ensure that the Central Electoral Commission does not appoint local elections for the summer period, I can tell you that they are appointed by the Supreme Council, and this is our right to appoint them for a certain period of time. And if we don't get the benefit of summer, it's definitely not summer anymore, it's autumn. With regard to the first elections in the unified territorial communities, 503 of them are just the intentions of the district government. These goals have not yet been realized and can only be implemented after the budget changes have been made accordingly. This process will take months, and only then will the Central Election Commission exercise the powers it has under its law. With regard to those 34 united communities for which the appeal is already due on April 24, the Central Election Commission cannot simply determine its own terms. But I think that, given the wishes of the session room, we can give them these recommendations and they will probably have to follow our recommendations in exchange for.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u67	Ruslan, add time? 30 seconds, please finish and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u68	But anyway, we have to make this legislative decision, because without it, we can't keep moving. And once it's accepted, we'll be clear about dates and the right choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u69	Thank you, colleagues. So let's move on to making a decision. Everyone please take up their jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Budget for Ukraine for 2017 (for the provision of funding for local elections) (number 6431) as proposed by the Committee on the Basis and Overall, taking into account the Committee's proposals. Please vote and please support, colleagues, vote. Please vote. With the suggestions of Knazević, with the suggestions of the committee, and with the suggestions made by Knazevitch. [[13:18:44]] For 271 The law is passed. We made the necessary funding available for the local elections. Now, colleagues, we're moving to our favorite chapter this is to be included in the agenda of the day session. And, as always, I'm going to consistently put every bill in place, and the hall will be defined. I would like to emphasize that this is just a day-to-day session. And I'm starting with the first draft of the Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (about Ukraine's foreign policy course)(6470). Colleagues, the bill is defined and clearly stated that for Ukraine foreign policy is the key to gaining membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, a bill that clearly declares and clearly demonstrates the desire for Ukraine to join NATO. I ask you to support the inclusion of him in the order of the day session, and if it is your will, we will be able to see him after lunch. Please vote, please support 6470. Vote, colleagues, please. [[13:20:22]] For 260 Decision taken. Colleagues, there will be no objection to having it after lunch today and putting it on the table, do we have a right? There's no objection. We'll put it up for consideration after lunch. In factions, please include. Peter Poshenko's Block – 115, People's Front – 72, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 20, Radical Party – 19, Father's Party – 12, Will of the People – 6, Rebirth Party – 0. So we go to the next 6281 draft Law amending article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (No. 6281). Colleagues, this is the initiative of our colleagues, national deputies, committee heads to cancel the break, colleagues. I ask you to support and show the Ukrainian people that the Ukrainian Parliament is working and will work actively and effectively. Please support 6281, except for the inclusion of the agenda of the session, please vote, please support. We're voting on our colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:21:55]] For-195 195-yes. I want to tell the people's deputies. If any of you think I'm hearing what you're yelling about this far away, he's making a big mistake, especially for that. I can't hear, yeah, I can't hear. For that, I have made a radical administrative decision to open a transition here so that you can come and inform me. Respect the decision of the head of parliament, please come forward and report. And we're moving on. Colleagues, I'm going to try to put this to a vote. Next draft of Law 6232. Please come into the hall, get ready. So we go to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Judiciality and other legislative acts (6232 and 6232-1). Please vote, please support, only the inclusion in the agenda of the session, please vote. [[13:23:29]] For the 250. Decision taken. Next: Draft Constitutional Conduct Act (6427 and 6427-1). Just getting into the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Vote, colleagues, 6427 and 6427-1, inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote. [[13:24:10]] For 231 Decision taken. The following is 6406: draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to comply with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. 6406 - inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote, colleagues, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session, 6406. Vote, please. [[13:24:53]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Next. I'll put off those that haven't passed. The next one is 6335. Is there a reconciliation? Yes, yes. So I'm putting the next draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act to improve the organization of the National Anti-Corruption Agency 6335 inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[13:25:43]] For-144 The decision is not taken. Next: a draft Act amending the Law on the judiciary and status of judges. Number 6529, in the order of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, 6529. [[13:26:15]] For 186 The decision is not taken. The next, 6303, is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on investor protection against capital market abuse (6303). Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[13:27:04]] For 225 One voice! I'll put it again, colleagues, 6303, in the order of the day session. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[13:27:29]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Next, the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to improve corporate governance of legal persons, shareholders (founding member) of which is the State (6428). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote! Vote 6428. [[13:28:12]] For 215 The computer has stopped working, dear colleagues. How much for? 215. The decision is not taken. I'm asking technicians, we've shut down computers. Please check. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's a cyberattack, but we're gonna take it out. Colleagues, I missed 6027. 6027 is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation to increase trust between banks and their customers. 6027. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. 6027. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:29:18]] For 237 Decision taken. Next: 6428. This is a draft of the Law. Vote. 5445: draft Law on Demonopolization and Market Principles for the Functioning of the Spirit Sector. Number 5445. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:30:08]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Next. 6517 next, colleagues. Please be prepared. This is a draft Decision to the European Parliament on the introduction of additional EU trade preferences for goods originating in Ukraine. 6517, scheduled for the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:31:01]] For 283 Decision taken. Next: 6327 and 6327-1. Draft Law on State Financial Guarantees for the Provision of Medical Services and Medical Devices My colleagues, I would like to stress, this is actually one of those bills that everyone has been stressing on the Conciliation Council about their support for health reform. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and take part in the vote, so I ask you to support medical reform. Please support 6327, 6327-1 inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:32:02]] For 247 Decision taken. Next: 6329 and 6329-1. Draft Act amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. Colleagues, please be advised and please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the 6329 and 6329-1 sessions. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:32:45]] For 249 Decision taken. I'd like to thank the MPs, the working group that was formed by the Peter Dustenk Block, who worked together with the other factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] And the People's Front and Self-Help for a solidarity position. Colleagues, this was indeed an important step, and it shows us that we are able to make a positive decision. And I'd be a big fan of having them look at it literally on Wednesday, and this week we've already put it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, without a committee, I can't put up. If the committee may consider it during the recess, we may even be able to get to the table after lunch. I'm giving the commission to the committee a closer look at the bills so that we can get to their consideration as soon as possible. And, fellows, don't split up, I'm going to put some more bills on the way back. Colleagues, don't split up, I'm going to put some bills back together, especially for a recess at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Colleagues, I very much urge you to take up jobs right now and support the initiative, to support the initiative so that we can work without interruption. We agreed earlier that we would be able to agree that in the first phase we would cancel the break of 12-12. 30 on Thursdays only. And the next one we're going to put in the order of the day session of 6440, which is similar to sound and meaning. Once again, I'm asking everyone to mobilize, and I'm once again proposing to include in the agenda of the 6281 session. This is a bill amending article 19 of the Supreme Council Rules. And please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support the cancellation of break 12-12:30. Vote, colleagues, please. [[13:35:21]] For 205 We're almost there. Now I'm going to put 6440, but you give me at least a name for this bill, write me a letter. My colleagues, I'm going to put some of those that haven't passed, and I'm going to put them to the vote again. 6406. There were a few votes missing, colleagues. I'm asking you to mobilize. I will once again propose the inclusion in the agenda of the session, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to bring the activities of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine into line with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine (6406). There were literally few votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] It was 213. Colleagues, I'm re-entering session 6406. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:36:38]] For 186 The decision is not taken. Next. Colleagues, I have been approached by a number of deputies, who are similar to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on Improving the Effectiveness of Plenary Meetings (6440). And at the request of the people's deputies, I'm proposing to put it in the order of the day session. 6440. Who supports the inclusion in the agenda of the session please vote. Please vote. 6440. [[13:37:22]] For 205 The decision is not taken. Also, colleagues, 6303, we had 218 votes. 218 we're small. And 6428 we had 215 votes. So, colleagues, please prepare, I'll put it to the vote again. Please mobilize. I would like to stress that the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to protect investors from capital market abuse (6303). So I'm going to put it again, a proposal to get into the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:38:22]] For 203 The decision is not taken. And 6428 had 218 votes, this is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving corporate governance of legal persons, shareholders. So I'm going to re-supply the inclusion in the agenda of the 6428 session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please, 6428 votes. [[13:39:03]] For 206 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, we've all gone through, we've made all the calls, colleagues. I want to do one more message. We now have several drafts in our second reading. They are very short and they are as unifying as possible. But before that, I had been asked by a number of deputies to move the parking issues closer. I'd like to ask if we can move him closer now? It was an address, we agreed that the poster would be taken off, but I'll put it to the vote. This bill is in order of the day, just standing there later. And at the request of a group of national deputies, I will now make an offer to have it brought to the table now. And so I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Please prepare, go into the hall, take your jobs. So, and I'm putting to the vote the proposal, the bill of Law 5364 and 5364-1, which is the order of the day, just later, so that we can put it up for consideration now faster. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the reform of the area of transport parking. The offer to move it and put it on the table now. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please be supportive. So 5364 and 5364-1 offer to move and put into consideration now. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:41:15]] For 233 The hall was joined together. We'll actually be able to consider this bill in 20 minutes. I'm asking you the first question right now. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. We're voting for a reduced procedure. Vote. [[13:41:46]] For-174 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Heratchenko Anton Juriovich. Please, Mr. Anton. Is Stashuka the First? Out of place, right? Please, from the place, make sure it's out of place. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, honourable citizens, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council! This bill is strictly technical. His job is that we have law enforcement officers who were injured in 14 years protecting Ukraine, but they were working at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and they had militia status. [[B in m in s a l in]] Excuse me, I have two bills. About the parking bill. This bill is very important in order for us to end up in the cities with questions about parking equipment elsewhere. This bill foresees that local authorities, city measures, will be able to draw up administrative protocols by means of a special authority to do so, as is the case in the West. Today, every time someone throws his car away and doesn't pay for it, the parking lot should call the police. Cops can't make all these protocols. This is the first time. Secondly, we have complete impunity for those who leave their cars in parking spaces and do not pay. During the last year, only 240 protocols have been drawn up throughout Ukraine. In all civilized countries the right to draft such protocols is vested in local authorities. It unloads the police, it increases discipline, and it launches mechanisms that make it convenient for local councils to take money for parking. So I propose to support this bill, to put it into the agenda today and then to support it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u71	It's included in the agenda, we're looking at it now. Next report. National Deputy of Ukraine Stashuk Vitaliy Colleagues, Stashuk Vitaliy. Who's gonna report from the committee? Okay. From the committee, I invite you to the word of Palamarczuk, Mikola Palamarczuk. Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, your view is suggested to consider the draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the reform of the area of transport parking (registration number 5364) and to make amendments to some Ukrainian legislation 5364-1. The substance of the amendments to the bill (registration number 5364) is the creation of a parking system in Ukraine that will be easy and convenient for road users, as well as the irreversibility of drivers of vehicles for violating parking and parking rules. Among other things, the project sees, firstly, changes to article 14.2 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which is the creation of a legislative mechanism for irreparability of liability for violations of the rules of stopping, parking and parking of vehicles by means of proposed photo-refining of offences. The other one. Attraction to administrative responsibility of the person with whom the vehicle is registered for individual traffic violations recorded in automatic mode, such as parking or parking costs for persons with disabilities, by persons who do not have such a right. Third. Compulsory leaving of a copy of the decree or of the decision to bring an administrative responsibility for a violation recorded in photo, video, or frontal glazing of the vehicle. Four. Articles 279.1, 279.3 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations lay down the grounds for the discharge of the liability of the person under whom the vehicle is registered, namely, when the license or car is removed, as a result of the unlawful actions of others, the transfer of the right of control of the car to another person on a responsible legal basis, or if the person, in fact the offender, pays a fine and a personal appeal to the authority with the application and a copy of the proof of payment of the fine. Fifth. New article.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u73	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u74	Authorizes parking inspectors for administrative offences and temporary detention of means of transport by means of evacuation and delivery for storage on the site. Seven. Amendments to Ukraine’s road traffic laws and Ukraine’s local self - government have been attributed to Ukraine’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs. administrative offences in the area of road safety, access to the resources of this register, authorized to be administratively responsible for the relevant offences. The requirements for car parking and parking facilities are also approved, and an automated parking payment system is introduced within a responsible location. The alternative bill (registration number 5361-1) proposes similar changes to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, Ukrainian Laws on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, on Road Traffic, on National Police, and, in addition to this, proposes to delegate the powers to deal with administrative offences envisaged by parts of article 122 of the first and third parts of the violation of the rules of parking, part one and two of article 152-1 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences from Administrative Commissions to the National Police, if the law enforcement person agrees with the circumstances set out in the protocol on Administrative Offences, or when the court makes observations on the protocol on Administrative Offences. The members of the committee do not agree with the above proposal in the section of the delegation of authority for the consideration of the designated administrative committees or executive committees, as proposed in Project Registration No. 5364.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u75	Mr. Mikolo, we're running out of time for this. Please, colleagues, do the recording. Please record: two in, two in. Berezuk Oleg Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u77	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Obviously, let us note with you that today we have a particular very vivid problem, including in our city, Kiev, and many other cities where the population exceeds thousands. Obviously, there is neither responsibility nor order on the roads today, evidently the police are not performing their functions, including in connection with the imperfections of legislation, and people are actually throwing their cars away. What does the order of this sphere give us? First of all, it allows local authorities to invest in parking, to build parking spaces, and to organize what is happening today on roads that are completely disorderly. At the same time, for us, as for the faction, it is a very important moment that if we order the responsibility of individuals, we make this responsibility automatically, in fact, we give authority, enough authority, and a lot of confidence to those people who will bring responsibility on behalf of authority, we should clearly guarantee that such powers will not be misused, that there will be no corruption risks. In particular, the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council notes a number of such points, including corruption, where the authority of the executive organs of local self-government is in fact not specific and contains an unclosed list. All these points must be worked out for second reading in such a way that this law actually brings order to the road, not disorder. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u78	Thank you. "The Rebirth Party" was playing Basil.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u79	I give the floor to Anton Yatzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, indeed, this law has worked very much on our committee of law enforcement and has a lot of positive novelties. We're all watching today in big cities and small cities where there's actually no order in the car parking area. Therefore, the request to support him throughout the hall is very important and will allow the local authorities to bring order in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u81	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u82	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please give Lapin Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u83	Lapin Igor, People's Front. Dear colleagues, I am asking all Ukrainian citizens to pay attention to the creation today of another penal body for Ukrainian citizens. Dear colleagues, I understand that if the city councils had created conditions for motorists, then the perpetrators would have to be held accountable. Instead, today we are trying to contradict such a standard in order to create another body that will issue fines. We have a beautiful police force, we have beautiful reformed police officers, let them do their job and set up protocols as they are given this right under Ukrainian law. Instead, once again, I will personally oppose voting against this lobbyist bill, taking into account the corruption risks that are inherent in the norms and the body of the law. I'm definitely against it. I urge everyone to vote against this lobbying bill, with a corruption component and another car for the owners of transport vehicles.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u84	Opposition Block, Germany. And then we move on to making a decision. Oh, there hasn't been a speech since the BP, okay, now Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u85	Germany, Opposition Block. By Kuzem Prutkov: You will meet a blonde on the street, star-rooted. I would like to suggest that they look at this law. First of all, there are direct ears here, attempts to further establish a police state in Ukraine. It is completely ignored here, what we have been shouting for two years, and what we have been saying for two years has been that decentralization, that territorial communities and the centre of power must be placed there precisely in order for the constitutional right to self-government to be the holy right of citizens, we see here, that these powers are also taken from the territorial communities. And it's very simple to open. This law is followed by the intention to change the cash flows that will follow as a result of fines. Why does a great fighter of ours keep his mouth shut and say nothing about whether or not there's corruption? It is openly reflected in this bill. Friends, we would like to take a look at article 1 of the Constitution, at least because we have to build up the rule of law, not the police. This is the bill, which is one of the parts that gives the power to govern citizens as herdsmen. It's disrespect for its people. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u86	Please, please, from WFP, please, Vladimir Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, this bill or similar bill is presented in this Hall for the third time. And there are very few bills that corrupt local authorities oppose. And it is the corrupters of the local authorities who want to leave everything as it is. As it is, you see everything. How do you pay for parking today? You pay for the parking lot today with cash, people in some incomprehensible vests, and then the local budget at best 5 percent of what's going on in the parking lot comes up. They were talking about the police, but today the police have no right to fine for the wrong parking of those who left behind, leaving their cars as they were, because to this day only a driver present when the car is present can be fined. As in Europe, when a fine is placed under glass, there is no such thing. This bill is a European bill, this bill is supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u88	15 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u89	Please give me one minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u90	This bill is supported by progressive measures, the bill supported by the Reanimation Package of Reforms. That's why those who want to fight corruption today vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u91	Thank you. Please, Ivan Krulko of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u92	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Indeed, this bill has been drafted for a long time, worked on by civil society experts, and can be supported in the first reading. But let's take a look at the real situation, see if we have any parking spaces. Because it seems that in the capital city of Kiev, when parking places are set aside, there suddenly comes another shopping center. Instead of allowing those who are actually driving to park their car in a well - equipped place. On the one hand. And on the other hand, let's look at this bill in terms of the model that we're betting on. And the bill sets out a model of "presumption of the fault of the owner of the vehicle." Thus, article 62 of the Constitution of Ukraine is violated. So here's the deal. We vote in the first reading and work on the second reading to eliminate corrupting factors on the one hand. Oh, on the other hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u93	Finish it. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u94	Cars in Ukrainian cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u95	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. So, are colleagues ready to make a decision? Are they all in the hall? And I'm voting for the first proposal -- this is a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on reforming the area of transport parking (number 5364) to be adopted as a basis. Based on the proposal of the committee. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Vote. [[14:00:12]] For 232 Decision taken. As far as I know, between the first and the second readings, everyone who is amended can be discussed and put into law. Colleagues, pay attention! Don't come out! I'm asking you not to leave, colleagues! I'd like everyone's attention right now. We have only one plenary meeting today, according to the order of the meeting. So we might have two choices: either we're taking a break from two to four, and we're working from four to six, or we're still working until four. I'd like this room to be defined by a vote. Or let's exchange thoughts, colleagues. I ask you to exchange your thoughts first and then your vote. I'm asking the faction heads to recommend for a minute how we're going to act. Please, Peter Dusty Block, Arthur Gerasimov. Please, People's Front. Arthur Gerasimov, what is your offer? Please don't break up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Peter Prashenko faction, I support Andry Volodymyrovich's offer to work without interruption until 4:00. We have a lot of serious laws, important laws, social laws that we have to adopt today. That's why the Peter Prashenko faction supports the continuation of the Supreme Council without interruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u97	Thank you. Please, Maxim Burbak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I believe that we started quite late today, at 12 o'clock, so I think we can work until the sixth without a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u99	Thank you. Who else has a wish? Oleg Lazko. Then Barresuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u100	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our iron team has the strength, the strength, and the desire to work around the clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u101	Oleg Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u102	The invitation of the Chief of the Supreme Council to work without interruption until the fourth hour is now adequate, and that is why we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u103	Thank you, colleagues. So, please, now, who hasn't come out of the factions? "Paternity"? Please, Birdie, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I fully support the proposal of the distinguished heads of factions and coalitions and opposition to work without interruption today, but I am surprised that such hardworking, talented heads of factions have just not voted, particularly the Self-Help faction, for including in the agenda of the day session for the Bill Number 6440. This is our project with Borislav Brez, Vladislav Dove, where we are proposing to make Friday the same ordinary plenary day that we will go with you to work and, in fact, adopt drafts not only on Tuesdays and Thursdays but on Fridays as all normal people work. So I very much hope that this is a mistake and you will all continue to support this bill as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u105	Thank you. I want to emphasize. When we consult on a particular matter, we consult on a particular matter rather than on political discussions. Replica, one minute, Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u106	I would like to remind the eminent lawyers of this Supreme Council that the bills that are being put into the agenda should at least be. We're supposed to be familiar with them, not bring them five minutes before the vote and accuse someone of having to vote. If we follow legislation, we'll all follow legislation together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u107	So, colleagues. Storm, Opposition Block, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u108	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I guess so. Dear colleagues, I would like to focus on the speeches of the MPs who are now saying, "Let's work on the Rules! We need two days to get to know each other in order to have the committee's conclusions in order to make decisions." So I'm addressing this faction. If you are considering medical reform on Thursday, and there are no conclusions for two days, that means that one day you lie to the other, and the other day you lie to the other, and be consistent.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u109	Colleagues, we had a discussion, and the entire room joined in offering to continue working without interruption. And, colleagues, we continue, we continue our work. Today, one plenary session. Let's define by voting. Colleagues, me. Give us another minute to Pinzenik Victor, he'll tell us the truth. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u110	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! I don't understand why the Conciliation Board wasn't allowed to be held at 8 a.m. and to start a meeting of the Supreme Council on a regular basis rather than transforming the vote into a farce. Take a break, allow the deputies to go into the toilet and continue voting after a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u111	Let's define by voting. Come on, fellows, let's unite. So there are two suggestions. I'm asking you, colleagues, to prepare for the vote so that the room can make a decision. I'll tell you what the point is, I'll explain it to Mr. Victor. This was indicated in the calendar plan presented to the Supreme Council by the Regulatory Committee, which was held only one plenary meeting on Tuesday. You know, I've been a fan of working as long as I can. So I'm going to put the first offer that's been made, work without interruption until 4:00, until 4:00. Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote, please support. Please vote. [[14:07:35]] For-173 The next thing I know, I'm going to put a vote on the motion to announce a break of 2 to 4 hours so I can continue my work from 4 o'clock. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please take your emotions off. I'm going to explain one more basic thing to you: there's a plenary meeting scheduled for today. I would like to stress that one plenary session is unmarked. Colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Now let's go with the statement. A statement came from two factions about the break. I'm going to consult with the apparatus right now, and I'm going to tell you how best we can do this. As long as there's a faction statement, I'll hold a consultation with the Apparatus. Ready to replace the factions with a break from the rostrum. And I invite you to the rostrum, before Oleg Valeriyovich's speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u112	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! The Stockholm Arbitration Decision, which has been declared to be uncompetitive, non-marketable gas price for Ukraine provided by Russia's Gazprom, is in vain causing such huge debates. According to this cable, Ukraine’s anti - Ukrainian, corruption treaty, experts estimate that it has overpaid at least 18 billion dollars in its gas supply contract. 18 billion dollars has been overpaid under Timoshenko-Putin's gas contract for gas supply. And I didn't get another 12 billion under the transit contract signed by Timoshenko Putini. That's 30 billion dollars. I have a question for the reverend Julius Volodymyrna. Juleka, can I have your attention? A few questions. What was the need to sign a 10-year gas agreement when at the time of its signature there were 16 billion cubic metres of gas in the Ukrainian gas depots, and we would have had it by April 2009? What was the need for a month after the signature of a gas Moscow contract to hide it from the services and from the Ukrainian people? Next question. You're saying that Janukovic overpaid for gas, that your contract was correct, but Janukovic overpaid. Well, you, Julia, talk about lying. But come on, we know all who Janukovic is. But Janukovic, at the price of his treachery, received a gas discount on your gas contract. The first gas contract was Timoshenko-Putin, a state betrayal. The second gas contract: Yanukovic, Kharkiv Agreements, in exchange for a gas discount, received a plus 30 year stay of the Black Sea fleet in Crimea. Well, finally. Mrs. Timoshenko says that Dustenko is guilty of gas contracts. I don't know what I'm guilty of, I don't know what I'm guilty of, I don't know. But I know exactly what unites Timoshenko and Dustyenko. And the gas agreements of Timoshenko, and the Kharkiv agreements of Yanukovich, and the Minsk Agreements of Dustenka are all anti-Ukrainian documents. Three leaders: Timoshenko, Yanukovic, Poshenko – demonstrated inability to defend Ukraine’s national interests, stand up for Ukraine! So all three of them, Yanukovic, are gone, and the next in political nonexistence is to go to Timoshenko and Dustyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u113	Please, one minute, Timoshenko's line. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u114	In the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u115	And literally, colleagues, I mean. This bastard said in 2013 that she would be proud of the country where Timoshenko would be president! This herd voted to increase Yanukovich’s authority, which brought Russian troops here. During the budget vote, this herd was given preference to its sponsors. This bastard destroyed a Ukrainian village in the 15th, 16th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u116	30 seconds, complete. [[B in m in s a l in]] I just announced, 30 seconds. I just announced, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u117	We've announced 30 seconds. I want to tell the Ukrainians now. Bad or good contract, check your payments. In 2009, when this contract worked, you paid a penny for natural gas. And now that this contract is said to be non-existent, you pay 10 times as much. Here's the specifics. And you can check that on the payments. And all the rest are sellers, oligarchs who are trying to discredit the Fatherland today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u118	Colleagues, I consulted with the Apparatus. And since the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not voted for a job without a break, I announce a break until 4:00. And at 4 p.m., we'll gather to continue our work. At 4 p.m., I'm asking everyone to come to the hall to continue our work. Unfortunately, it's hard for us to get into the rhythm all the time, so we'll continue our work at 4:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u119	Colleagues, please come into the hall. Break time is up. And I ask both the Secretary of the Supreme Council and the heads of factions to invite deputies into the hall to continue our work. Please. Colleagues, please prepare to resume our work. Colleagues, we can start working. Let us move on to the following questions of the order of the day. I want to let you know that the next chapter is "The Youth Policy and Sports Bills," but unfortunately, we don't have all the authors yet, and that's why we're moving on. Not all authors yet for the report. These are very short bills, there's literally two or three revisions. And so by the time the drafters come, we're going to go to the next draft of the Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on cross-border cooperation, it's No.6085. Colleagues, there is a request to be supported by consideration of the reduced procedure. The bill was prepared by the committee for a long time, and the head of the committee, Jurinec Oxana Vasilovna, insisted that it be considered, a progressive bill supported by all factions. And I have a request that we support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Can I count on your support and understanding, colleagues? My colleagues, can everyone hear me? Supported by a reduced procedure? Is he on short notice, Oleg? Cross-border cooperation. A non-conflict, positive bill. I ask you to take your place and prepare for the vote, colleagues. Please. Please come in. And I am voting on the proposal to review the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on cross-border cooperation (number 6085), the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support and participate in the voting, the heads of the factions, please assist with the mobilization of the national MPs. So we're voting, and I'm asking you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, cross-border cooperation. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, please support, we vote. [[16:08:09]] For-137 We didn't make it. I'm gonna do it again. Colleagues, a completely non-conflict bill, a progressive and correct bill, and Oksana Jurinec made great efforts to have it prepared and considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I very much ask you to take a close look at the vote and support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to take their seats and I'm asking you to prepare for the vote, and I'm putting you to the vote again, and I'm asking you in the support room. And I ask you to support the review of the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on cross-border cooperation (6085) by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, vote, colleagues, please support, vote. [[16:09:17]] For-152. Decision taken. The potential in the hall is powerful. And I invite the head of the European Integration Committee's subcommittee, Jurinec Oksana Vasilovna, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u120	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on European Integration reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on cross-border cooperation (registration number 6085) as of 15.02.2017 and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. The members of the committee were of the view that the adoption of the draft law would ensure that there were legislative grounds for the establishment and operation of European-regional cooperation associations, European associations of territorial cooperation, and the introduction of transparent conditions, State support for cross-border cooperation projects. I would like to point out that today the issue of cross-border cooperation is governed by a law that was adopted in 2004 and that needs to be updated. For example, the current law does not provide for the activities of Euro-regional cooperation associations provided for in Protocol 3 to the European Framework Convention on Cross-border Cooperation between Territorial Communities and the Basic Union and Regional Cooperation Authorities. In addition, since the adoption of the Law on Cross-border Cooperation by the European Union, new legal acts have been developed to regulate the activities of European associations of territorial cooperation in which Ukraine can also participate. The problem is also the way and form of State support for cross-border cooperation. In practice, there is often a situation where European partners are willing to allocate funds for projects, but the Ukrainian side cannot meet its own co-financing obligations at the same time and in full. Accordingly, such projects are not implemented at all, or their implementation is delayed in time. There is therefore a pressing problem, an improvement in the legal framework to enable new forms of cross-border cooperation to work, and a positive economic and social impact on border areas. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the results are positive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u121	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u122	In the first reading, a bill can be adopted on a basis that takes into account established observations and suggestions, please support. This is an important bill that will enable us to develop qualitatively within our borders.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, this is a really important bill, Ukraine's contribution to international infrastructure projects and for Ukraine it has, and not only that, it has enormous potential and prospects, given that Ukraine has enormous transit potential. And I'm asking everyone to back me up, and I'm asking you to record the performance: two in, two in, against, please. Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u124	Please pass it on to your colleague Timish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u125	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this bill in the form in which it is proposed by Mrs. Jurinec's distinguished colleague. A very serious copyright agency was involved, in fact, in the drafting of this bill, in all the political factions representing our Parliament. An important bill that will greatly improve the functioning of our organizations, which in fact we have been late for at least 3-4 years since the European Union's legislation. We are now, in fact, adapting this bill to European Union legislation. In doing so, we provide our territories with boundaries to improve cooperation and cooperation. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u126	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, please. He's handing Alona Schkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u127	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues are indeed an example of a bill that does not absolutely need money from the state budget, but builds possible and potential cooperation between our territories and European territories. For the time being, the legal framework for cross-border cooperation was established by law in 2004. Since then nothing has been updated, nothing has changed, and we have very interesting stories, very sad, in fact, when Europeans want to allocate money to Ukraine to support cross-border cooperation and projects, they're willing to do so, it's huge sums that can help develop individual communities and territories of our country. But the legislative base is out of date, there is no possibility, the government is loose and very weak, the institutional efficiency of the state is zero, and these projects are either delayed, and we're just losing opportunities, money and opportunities for our people or they can't be done at all. And it's clear that in this situation, when we don't have money from the state budget, it's just a shame that we're losing that money to European partners because of an imperfect, outdated legislative base. That's why "Paternity" will support this bill. I am proud that I am, including his co-author, and I urge the entire room to move on, you know, from political hysteria, to normal work, and to adopt this bill as a basis for first reading, to work on and, indeed, to enable our communities to develop, to invest in European society, to work on cross-border cooperation and projects, and to show those results that, for example, through cross-border cooperation, Poland has shown in its time and very long time, and to demonstrate the effectiveness, finally, of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u128	Thank you. Wolf Victor Ivanovich, conveys the word Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u129	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Of course, cooperation between infrastructures. It is important between Ukraine and our neighbors, and our first - reading faction will definitely support this bill. But at the same time I'd like to stop at another, let's see what's going on with the infrastructure in Ukraine and first with the Crucifixion. At some Warsaw-based corruption dump, this rocker, Wojciech Balchun, was found, brought here, and they say he's going to eradicate corruption from the Crucifixion. As a result, what do we have? Not only is corruption continuing, but there is a steady increase in freight tariffs. The increase in freight tariffs is an increase in prices on shelves in stores that every Ukrainian feels, every Ukrainian citizen will see this so-called reform. On June 5, a contract with Balchun is concluded, and we demand that it be stopped, that a normal, transparent contest be held. There are enough wise and intelligent Ukrainians who are capable of running such businesses. What's more, we've got to drive the entire government of the Crucibles, because corruption is sitting right there. And everyone knows how flows are distributed between state-owned enterprises, among other things. Enough experiments on Ukrainians. The Ukrainian nation is self-sufficient, we have enough decent and honest people to run both the Crucifixion and everyone else. So we ask you to sweep the brooms of these workers back.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u130	From the Opposition Block, Gusak Volodymyr Georgievic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, dear Head! The opposition bloc faction will not vote in favour of this bill because it does not respond to the real decentralization of power in Ukraine. But I wanted to turn around. To point out what is happening on another occasion today in the walls of the Supreme Council: the Supreme Council's leadership is constantly introducing bills, whether it's about cancelling a break or other things or changing the Rules. But we have to start with the basic organization of the work of the Supreme Council. Today, for example, the agenda was not prepared in time. He was handed out, but he was so impressed that the chairman of the agenda did not see him. As a result, the bill was viewed as a dead end, and the MPs did not understand what was going on. And for example, when they were considering a bill on reforming transport vehicles, the reporter first started reporting another bill, then started talking about the right bill, but for some reason he suggested that it be included in the agenda. Then it was time to accept it in the first reading. And maybe that's why this bill was adopted for the first time or for the first time in the Supreme Council without the voices of the People's Front. But once again, we call on the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to study the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to abide by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to effectively organize the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u132	Thank you. Since I had a call, I have to answer. And I have a recommendation for you: not to deceive the deputies or the Ukrainian people and read in detail the documentation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to emphasize to you, and in detail, that the agenda is initially formed at the committee heads' meeting. Then it is formed on Thursday at a faction meeting. And I want to inform you that no representative of your faction took part in a meeting on Thursday, completely ignoring the work of the Supreme Council and completely ignoring the organization of work. On Thursday, the weekly agenda was approved, which is on the Supreme Council website Thursday and today, from Thursday on the Supreme Council website was a day’s work, including Tuesday. In view of yesterday’s weekend, the Conciliation Council took place in the morning, in effect the same order of the day, in the same order, and was handed over to the Ukrainian National Deputies. From Thursday to Tuesday, he did not change. But in order to know that, you need to read the documents of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, you need to do professional work, and you need to do your work on business days, and you need to study the documents that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accepts. All the bills that were put into the order of the day session today and that we've been looking at were formed on Thursday, and from Thursday to today they haven't been changed. The only law was transferred, transferred by the will of the hall, the one who was in the order of the day’s session. So work on documents, read documents, teach documents, and, above all, do not fool the Ukrainian people, for it is becoming too visible and too clear to all, your political manipulations and speculations. Thank you. It's from "self-help" Olena Sotnik. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u133	Thank you very much. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I'll still allow myself to go back to the subject of the bill. The bill deals with cross-border cooperation. And here it is important to stress that the last time Parliament has made any changes to this area is 13 years ago. In 13 years, much has changed. You and I already have an association agreement, we can actually declare with you that it's ratified, that there are only technical moments left for its final ratification. This is the law, on the contrary, I have to point out, unlike the previous speaker, it strengthens the community. It makes them more independent. It enables communities to work with communities of other countries, including technical assistance budgets, to increase cooperation in the economic, cultural, and environmental spheres. This is an additional opportunity to get resources for our territorial communities. Therefore, I am very grateful for the support of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, there will be a vote in two minutes. I ask you to invite the deputies into the Hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies into the Hall. It's a closing act. The People's Front, Maxim Burbak. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, I am asking you to have everyone support for this bill because it deepens the cross-border cooperation between Ukraine and the EU countries. In particular, I would like to point out in the undisputed support of the People's Front faction of our colleagues in the Radical Party, as early as last plenary week, that we have made a public statement to support the initiative of Vladimir Omelyan, Minister of Infrastructure, to ensure that the contract for the leadership of Mr. Balchun's Crossroads has not been extended. I want to remind you, today was the last day of his contract. I'm sure this guitarist has to go back to Poland to do concert activity because he's completely downed the road. So once again, I urge everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u136	Thank you. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, this is Ukraine's ability to join European infrastructure, to build and join Ukraine in infrastructure projects, especially in Eastern Europe. And so I stress that this bill is extremely important and I ask everyone to participate in the vote and to support it, the more proposed by the committee is just a basis. And if there are any warnings, we can include them in the first and second reading discussions. So I ask convincingly, colleagues, to take up all the jobs, to prepare for the vote. Please come in. At the end of June, we are taking a big step with the speakers of parliaments and Poland, and with the representatives of Slovakia, Hungary, all those countries that have a part of Carpathian in their territory, with the implementation of the overall infrastructure project "Europe Carpathian" to build a common infrastructure involving European funds. This will be a huge help for our regions that are involved in the Carpathians and a great deal of impetus to attract foreign funding for the construction of Ukrainian roads. Please take up jobs. Ready, yeah, can we vote? Let's go to the vote. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on cross-border cooperation, number 6085, on the basis of a committee proposal. Please vote, please support base 6085. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[16:26:30.]] For 245 Decision taken. So the colleagues, the next chapter, is the second reading. I want to emphasize that laws have very few rights. It's a committee of young people and sports, and so I'm asking everyone to be in the hall and get ready for work. Next draft of Act 5616 amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports on the Induction of Service-Based and Military-Application Sports. It's a second reading, there's only a few rights. And I invite you to the report of the first deputy head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sport of Veliczkowicz Mikol Romanović. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u137	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Your consideration is, for second reading, the Bill (No. 5616) on Physical Cultures and Sports on the Induction of Service-Based and Military-Application Sports. In all, 8 amendments were made to the bill by the Ukrainian National Deputies. It is proposed that the committee consider 3 amendments, discard 2 and take into account 3 amendments in part. The bill proposes to define the concept of law enforcement and military-application sport and to provide additional guarantees to higher-class athletes serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, other military formations established in accordance with Ukraine's laws, law enforcement agencies, rescue services and other special services. I would like to point out that when the bill was drafted for second reading, members of the committee did not support the proposal of the drafters of the bill to restrict the use of sports facilities for physical and sports activities in law enforcement agencies, rescue services and other special services to train relevant athletes to participate in all-Ukrainian and international competitions from Olympic and neo-Olympic sports. Therefore, the amendment of the members of the committee regarding the introduction of part six of article 30 of the Physical Culture and Sports Act reads: “The sports buildings of physical culture and sports institutions defined in part four of this article are used for the organization and conduct of physical training of military and military personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations established in accordance with the laws of Ukraine, law enforcement officials, lifeguards and other special services, the training of relevant athletes to participate in sports competitions.” This will promote the constitutional right of citizens to engage in physical culture and sports regardless of their professions, occupations, and jobs. Please support the committee's decision and adopt the bill in second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u138	Thank you. Colleagues, just two adjustments. That's why I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall right now. The vote will take place literally in a few minutes. And we're moving on to the discussion. I'm going to call the rejected corrections. 2 revisions, Walking. Is it insisting? Don't insist. 5th Amendment, Walking. Don't insist. So, colleagues, we have a fully discussed and harmonized bill that's important and necessary to support physical culture and sports. And I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take your seats. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports on the Induction of Service-Based and Military-Application Sports (No. 5616) as proposed by the Committee on Second Reading and Overall. Have you gone through the paperwork yet? Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, every voice has weight. Please take up jobs. I ask for your support in the second reading and in general. Vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[16:31:31]] For 221 Not all of them made it. I'll be right back. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. There are four votes missing. Don't leave the hall or go into the hall. Five votes are missing. Colleagues, this is the work of a large team -- the Youth and Sports Committee, which has removed all conflict issues, has submitted a harmonized bill to Parliament. I ask everyone, colleagues, to take up jobs and prepare for the decision. Please help the factions' heads. You're ready, aren't you? I propose to return to draft Law 5616. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I ask to vote in favour of the return of draft Law 5616. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Carefully, each voice matters. [[16:33:00]] For 221 Colleagues, I don't think we can put the issue of military-applicable sports at risk because of lack of discipline. I'm asking you to show by factions. In fact, "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 97, "National Front" – 62, "Occupy Block" – 0, "self-help" – 20, Radical Party – 17, "The Fatherland" – 7, "The will of the people" – 3. In fact, all factions support the bill. The question is only in discipline. Come to the hall, help me, invite the deputies to the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite deputies to the Hall and ask the factions to invite deputies to the Hall. Please take up your jobs. The copyright team has been working on a fully harmonized bill. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Act amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports on the Induction of Service-Based and Military-Application Sports (No.5616). Please vote, please support. Vote. Please support, colleagues, every voice matters. We're voting for the return. Please vote. [[16:34:47]] For the 220. Colleagues, if I re-read it? Well, tell me, tell me what to do about this situation. Colleagues, I'm about to make a second reading proposal. Or another one? I'll put the last time back in, if there are no votes, I'll put the second reading back in. But I think it's irresponsible when we talk about the development of physical culture and sport, but what's very important is military-applicable sport, that is, the training of our young people for the protection of the country and for the protection of Ukraine. And the lack of discipline leads us to postpone adoption of the bill. Please, let's invite everyone else to the hall. I'm going to ask everyone to take another job, and I'm going to ask you to come back, and please take your jobs. Colleagues, can everyone vote? Vika! There's a card, right? Yes. So, everyone, please be prepared to get as close to your cards as possible. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for the draft Act amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports on the Induction of Service-Based and Military-Application Sports (No.5616). Please vote, please support. I urge everyone to take part in the vote. Please be supportive. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Please vote. [[16:36:48]] For 230 And now I'm putting to the vote, please remain seated, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports on the Induction of Service-Based and Military-Application Sports (No. 5616) as proposed by the Committee. Come back, please. Well, that's one minute to get out of the hall. In the second reading and in general. Please vote. It's already a decision-making process. Please vote, please support 5616 in second reading and in general. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:37:40]] For 235 The law is passed. The following law also has a small number of rights, including the Youth and Sports Committee. And we are going to look at the draft Act amending some of the legislation on child health and rest, the maintenance of the Children's Health Network (No. 2917). It's also a second reading, there's a little bit more right here, but there's not much left. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee of Veliczovich Mikola Romanović. Please, Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u139	Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor, your colleagues. The bill is designed to improve the health and rest of children. In preparation for the committee’s second reading, the following principles were introduced: Children who need social attention and support, i.e. are entitled to rehabilitation at the expense of government and local budgets, including children who live on the collision line. All children can be healed at the expense of local budgets, including partial payment of travel to health facilities. The committee also refused to shorten the deadline for a change in health, as this makes it impossible for children to recover normally. The rights of Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik were also taken into account, which concerned the retraining of health facilities and restrictions only imposed on state and municipal enterprises. Now, about the question that caused the biggest debate in the session room during the first reading of the bill. The committee supports the proposal of the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine to establish a State Register of Property Objects for the Recovery and Recreation of Children. The State Register of Child Health and Recreation that exists today only provides information about these facilities, but there is no information on the property, the premises, the land that this facility uses in its activities. Today, there are isolated cases of land estrangement of health facilities, their intended use. Of course, the State must control the targeted use of state and municipal property. I would like to point out that the private form of ownership does not apply. In addition, both parents and government authorities have the right to receive information on these objects in order to provide quality and safe treatment for children. At the same time, in order to encourage managers of health facilities, the committee considers it appropriate to retain the administrative responsibility for failing to report directly to this register. There were 79 amendments to the bill. The committee proposes to take 38 amendments into account, to reject 26 amendments, and to take part 15 amendments into account. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u140	Thank you. Let's move on to the right-hand side. How many rejected, Mr. Mikolo? 27, right? 26 amendments rejected, I'll call them. And please contact the authors who wish to participate in the discussion. 2 Amendment, National Deputy Ivan Krulko. Don't insist. Third. People's MP Pinzenik Victor. He insists. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, the draft law provides for the creation of another state register, a register of rest facilities regardless of the form of ownership. If a government official is interested in what the basis for recreation is in Ukraine, let him open the Internet, so that he does not have to create another government register and carry additional expenses. I've made an appropriate amendment to remove this item from the law, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u142	Please, Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u143	The Committee considers it necessary to establish a national register of property facilities for the recovery and rest of children, since, on the one hand, the State should check for the purpose of using public and municipal property and, on the other hand, parents have the right to receive complete information about the property used by the health and rest facilities, not just its legal name. The committee suggests that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u144	Do they insist on voting? And I'm putting to the vote amendment number three of People's MP Pinzenic, she's been rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:42:51]] For-143 The decision is not taken. 4th, Krulko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u145	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. My esteemed colleagues, namely, my amendment 4, had a direct focus on this state registry that we create so that it would prevent the removal, transfer, retraining and use of objects of public health and rest, if they are not, of course, privately owned. And this is the amendment I wanted to include in this bill, and I'm asking the committee to support it, and I'm asking the session room to support it. It is important that we develop rather than cut down on the network of facilities that provide health services for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u146	Please, Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u147	Mr. Krulco, regulation 44, 45, 46, 47 deals with the issue of whether public and municipal institutions are prohibited from re-profileing, this does not apply to private property establishments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u148	Do you insist on voting, Mr. Ivan? You insist. I'm putting to the vote the 4th amendment of People's Deputy Krulka, which the committee rejected. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[16:44:33]] For 135 The decision is not taken. 5th Lensky, does he insist? No, it's not. 6th, Nedda. Don't insist. Twelve, no insistence. 13th, Neda. Don't insist. 17th, Krulko. Don't insist. 17th, insists, please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u149	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I would like to thank the committee in general for the detailed consideration of the amendments that I have made, most of which have been taken into account by the committee in various texts, but I thank you for putting the basics into this bill: money goes to the child. The money will now be directed to a facility where the child will receive the best recovery, not where the child will be sent. So I want to say that I'm asking that we vote on this amendment, too, because it reveals information about children's health and rest facilities, and this information has to be public. But I would also like to say that the session room should unite, that the bill was voted on, and I will continue to withdraw all my amendments to speed up its consideration. And I ask the session room to support this bill that really regulates the recovery of Ukrainian children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u150	Thank you. Don't you insist on this 17th? Mr. John, don't you insist on voting on her? Okay, then I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 17th People's Deputy Krulka, who supports it, please vote, and the committee rejected it. Please vote. [[16:46:28]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Next, 19th, I was walking. Don't insist. 20th, Lensky. Don't insist. 21st, sale of Oksana. Don't insist. 22nd, Neda. Don't insist. 24th, Nedda. Don't insist. 35th, Oksana Sold. Don't insist. 37th, Krulko said he wouldn't insist. 39th, Nedda. Don't insist. 42nd Pinzenik Victor. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, the amendment relates to the obligation of owners of existing and newly created rest facilities to report themselves to the State Register. When a legal person registers, statutory activity is known in the registration authorities, if one authority of a State wants to know about it, it can do so, and it is not necessary to force everyone to report themselves to the government register. I'm asking you to set up my application and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u152	Will you comment, Mikolo Romanovich? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u153	The Committee considers it necessary to establish a State Register of Child Health and Recreation, since not only public authorities should know but also parents who want to see where they are sending their children, should also know where they are sending the child, under what conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u154	So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 42 People's Deputies of Pinzenik, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:48:30.]] For 114 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. 55th, Lensky. Don't insist. 44th, yes. Please, Victor Pinzenik, 44 revisions. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, this is already included in the comparative table, which provides that when the establishment is restructured, the owner ensures the purpose of the use of the property. The owner has decided to stop his activity, and this is what we say, and we will not let you quit. Well, that's nonsense. We can never count on private investment if we force the owner to keep the activity profile he started. I'm asking you to put this amendment on the stand and not back it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u156	Please, Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u157	44. The law provides that the restriction on the purpose and preservation of the property of health facilities applies exclusively to state and municipal property establishments. I emphasize: exclusively state and municipal forms of property. The committee proposes that this amendment be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u158	Colleagues, the committee has supported this amendment and is committed to confirming it. I would like to point out that whoever supports the position of the committee should now vote in favour of this amendment. So I'm asking you to make the most of it now, to take up jobs. Colleagues, I'm voting for the approval of 44 People's Deputies of the Chamber, and I'm asking everyone to support this amendment. It's for confirmation. And I ask everyone to vote in favour. Please vote in favour of Amendment 44. Please vote, please support. [[16:50:49]] For 184 The decision is not taken. If there's any pressure, we can get back to her. Forty-six, Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u159	Dear head, I'd like you to pass me another 47 copies. Which provides for 46 revisions: The property of rest facilities may not be subject to a compression. But the mechanism of binding is regulated by laws, and we can't predict different compression regimes, especially that this regime is provided for both state and municipal. State-owned utilities. The Constitution forbids us from dividing businesses into forms of property. So I'm asking you to put this right to a vote, to confirm and not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u160	Please, Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u161	An amendment, 46 revisions, provides that the rule on the inability to enter into debt obligations and the transfer of health care facilities applies only to state and municipal property. It's not about private institutions, I'm stressing it's about state and municipal.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u162	Thank you. So it's an offer to confirm 47 revisions, is it not, Mr. Victor? 46th or 47th now? And 46th and 47th, right? But you're going to do it separately, and we're going to put it separately, 46 lines. And by the way, colleagues, I want to emphasize to you that these are actually the latest revisions that we're looking at. And so I'm asking the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite members to the Hall, and in two or three minutes, we're moving on to the decision-making process. And I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall and take jobs. Please, everyone, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Now I'm putting to the vote 46, the People's Deputy of the House. Victor Pinzenik puts it on the stand. The committee supports it. So, who supports the position of the committee, and the committee thinks that this is one of the main rights in the law, please vote in favour, and please support. I'm betting on confirmation 46 of the bill, and I'm asking everyone to vote and support Amendment 46. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. And I'm asking you to take up your jobs. [[16:53:36]] For 190 The decision is not taken. The last one's going to be a readjustment, colleagues, last one. That's why I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall. We move on to the decision-making process in one or two minutes. Please, Victor Pinzenik, 47 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, in the second reading of the law, there is a new rule: in the event of bankruptcy, the authorities decide on the transfer of institutions to state and municipal property. Colleagues, but we have bankruptcy legislation, it regulates bankruptcy. We can't use a completely new bankruptcy procedure in a particular sector. The way property is used in bankruptcy is defined by a valid law, and it cannot go into state, municipal property. I ask you to place this amendment on confirmation and not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u164	Please, Mikolo Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u165	47 readjustment provides that the rule on the transfer of children's health and rest facilities to state and municipal institutions in the event of bankruptcy applies exclusively to state and municipal enterprises. State and municipal forms of property. And I think this is probably the moment that we're trying to preserve government property, because we have very often when state enterprises go bankrupt and then they're transferred to private property. So the committee insists on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u166	Thank you. Colleagues, therefore, view the confirmation of 47 revisions. Please come into the hall, everyone, it's the last time. Please take up jobs. The committee requests support for 47 amendments and asks to vote in favour. And I'm putting the vote to the 47th People's Chamber. The committee's asking her to support it, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote on the 47th amendment. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:55:51]] For 184 Dear colleagues, we're done discussing the rights. A representative of Velitchovich Mikola Romanovich will now advise us on how to act in this situation, whether to vote in general or to re-read the second reading. Please advise us how we should be. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u167	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The committee insists on 44th, 46th, 47th revisions, because this is about protecting state and municipal property. It's very important for us to. Very often, when managers or poor managers try to corrupt an enterprise, they make some financial commitments to transfer them into private hands. Thus, we make this law and these rights impossible to transfer to the private hands of enterprises of state and municipal property. We want state enterprises to remain in state or municipal forms of property, where our children are cured. So please support these changes: 44th, 46th and 47th, and go back to them, and vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u168	Okay. If we don't go back and vote, then you have to make a decision whether to make a whole or a second read. Grandmaster Mikola Romanovich explained the logic of those rights: if the hall does good, we will return to them, if not, we will vote on the law as a whole. And so I'm asking you, we're already going to make decisions, we're all going to take jobs. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. Invite all the deputies into the hall, and ask everyone to take up their jobs. So, colleagues, if there's the will of the room, we'll go back to those lines, explained Mikola Romanovich, what the logic of those lines is. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the 44th. The committee is asking to return to its consideration. Please vote, please support the committee. Vote, please. It's the Palace's edit. Please vote in favour of returning to this amendment. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:58:19]] For 209 The next 46 revisions. A representative of the committee suggests that we return to her, since without her the law may lose its meaning and purpose. Please take up jobs. And I'm proposing to go back to number 46 of the House's national deputies. Please support the committee and vote in favour of returning to number 46. Please vote, please support. [[16:58:59]] For 205 The decision is not taken. And lastly, he asks the committee to return to office 47 of the People's Deputies of the House. And I would like you to support the committee and vote in favour of returning to number 47. Please vote. Please come back. Please vote. [[16:59:30.]] For 203 The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, we move on to the adoption of the law as a whole. And I ask you to prepare for the vote, we move on to the decision, my colleague. Please. So, colleagues, the committee believes that it is still necessary to vote, that there are still positive novels, important ones. And I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of the legislation on child health and rest. Saving the network of children’s health facilities (No. 2917) at the suggestion of a committee on second reading and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. 2917 as a base and as a whole. Vote! Colleagues, please support. [[17:00:59]] For 252 The law is passed. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Thank you, Mikola Romanovich, for your well-prepared work. And we move on to the next draft of the Law on Amendments to Article 48 of the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster (No. 5297). And I invite the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Moskalenko Jaroslav Mikolaiovich, to report. He'll report from the committee, colleagues, I've got Moskalenko. Let's hear from Rybak? It's a second reading, guys. This is the second reading, and here's just two revisions. Question only for the reporter. It's marked Moskalenko. I, with your permission, invite you to Moskalenko Jaroslav Mikolaiovich's rostrum. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u169	Dear colleagues! Dear Chief! For consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the second reading introduces a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 48 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster (registration No. 5297). The bill amends part two of article 48 on the status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, proposing to renew the right to receive annual health care for children who lost their lives as a result of the Chernobyl disaster by one of the parents and evacuated from the alienation zone in 1986. The draft law does not require additional expenditure from the state budget of Ukraine. The cost of payment of the listed category of citizens in 2016 is provided by the budget programme "Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster", which is headed by the Ministry of Social Policy. Seven proposals were made to the Ukrainian National Deputies, which are listed in the comparative table of the bill. In the course of the discussion by the national deputies, the first and seventh proposals were accepted, and the second and sixth were rejected in connection with the need for additional expenses. The committee considered the draft Law (Registration No. 5297) at its meeting and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u170	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like to emphasize that there are only a few rights. I'll announce them. 4th People's Deputies, Levchenko. Is it insisting? He insists. Turn on the microphone, please. Mr. Jaroslav, Mr. Jaroslav Moskalenko, return to the rostrum. Yeah, okay, please. You're on for now. But he'll be back, Mr. Yuri. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u171	Can I have a question, please? Just please start from the beginning, because for now. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The point is that in order for the bill not to be declared as often as it occurs in similar bills, the proposal for the size of compensation and assistance should be complemented with provisions that would establish at the level of the law, namely the law, the minimum amount guaranteed by law of compensation for damage caused by health to persons with disabilities as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, other nuclear accidents and trials, participants in the elimination of the consequences of the accident in Chernobyl, other nuclear accidents. Because now, as stated here, the minimum is not proposed, the general phrase is that the size set by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is proposed. We are very often, we know how the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in all its years of independence, how it feels, to the great regret, to our Chernobyl heroes. Therefore, I propose that the minimum amount of compensation provided for in part one of this article be paid at least three minimum wages. It's no less, it could be more, but it's no less. Because, as it's now stated, it doesn't guarantee anything at all, really.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u172	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 4 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports the 4th amendment, please vote. [[17:05:49]] For 118 The decision is not taken. 5 revisions. Are you insisting? He insists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u173	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Regrettably, this Supreme Council, like other heroes of Ukraine who protect us and the country, is being mistreated, and the Chernobylites are being treated horribly. Only 119 deputies voted in favour of this matter. I call on all the Chernobylers, all the families of the Chernobyl family to see who didn't vote in favour of this amendment. My amendment number 5 refers to the same question. I call on the Supreme Council to urge the Supreme Council not to adopt another declaration bill. Now, what they're going to say is, you see how we helped the Chernobyls, and really then the Cabinet of Ministers will set the amount of aid to 50 bracelets, right? And vote the minimum amount, not the cloudy stuff, but just so that the minimum guaranteed amount is at least three minimum wage levels. And then it's really going to be an active bill, not a butaphoria like almost everything in this room. Please vote in favour of my amendment number 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u174	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote amendment number five of the People's Deputy Levchenk. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:07:25]] For-125 The decision is not taken. I want to let you know, we're going to be discussing the last amendment in two minutes, so we're going to have a vote. And I'm asking you to invite the Ukrainian people's deputies into the hall, and in two minutes we'll move on to the decision-making process. 6 Amendment, People's Deputy Levchenko. Is he insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u175	Thank you. My last amendment to this bill concerns the same issue. The first two amendments involved one-off compensation, and the last amendment applied to annual aid, although part two of this article did not provide a specific minimum for this annual aid. This will mean that once again the heroes of Chernobyl will either get nothing at all, or get the coins completely proportional to their contribution to our life with you, the existence of today, you know, physical, not simple. So I propose to complete the bill with the following paragraph that the annual aid provided for in part two of this article is paid at least one minimum wage, so once again at least one of these minimum wages is paid to make you unhappy. So that people would really get support, really, help, not give them 50 dollars once a year again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u176	And I'm voting on Amendment 6, this is the final amendment, the People's Deputy Levchenk. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Vote. [[17:09:19]] For-127 The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, we're finishing the discussion. Thank you, Jaroslav Mikolaiovich, for the report. And we're moving on to making a decision. Everyone please take up their jobs. And I am voting on the draft Act amending article 48 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster (No.5297) on second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, 5297 in second reading and in general. Please be supportive. [[17:10:22]] For 243 The law is passed. So, colleagues, we've gone through the second-reading block, and we're going to go to the first-reading block. Let me remind you, we have already considered the Law on Cross-border Cooperation, and the next issue in this block is the draft Law on Amendments to Some of Ukraine's Laws on Guaranteeing Human Constitutional Right to Strike (No.4639). And the committee is asking to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the summary procedure, please. [[17:11:18]] For 168 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Infrastructure Minister Lavrenjuk Yuri Fedorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u177	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the national parliament, you have before you the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to guarantee the implementation of the constitutional right of human beings to strike (registration number 4639), introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The draft law is designed to bring legislative acts in line with the requirements of the Convention and the practice of the European Court of Justice to settle the issue of the implementation of the constitutional right to strike by workers at the legislative level. The bill amends Ukraine’s laws on transport and on how to resolve collective labour disputes. According to these amendments, article 18 of the Ukrainian Transport Act stipulates that employees of transport companies are entitled to strike according to legislation. And article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Settlement of Collective Labour Disputes is complemented by a provision that prohibits the conduct of a strike if the work suspended by workers is a threat to the national security of the state. The adoption of proposed amendments to the draft law will enable transport workers to defend their legal rights and interests by means of civil protest, as provided for in article 44 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law on the Order of Collective Labour Disputes. In addition, the proposed changes will ensure proper reporting to the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe and will remove the grounds for complaints before the European Court of Justice against Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Please support a very important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u178	Thank you. Please give the head of the Transport Committee Jaroslav Dubnevic for the report. Mr. Jaroslav, a word for the co-report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a bill calling for the introduction of legislation that regulates the right of transport workers to strike in accordance with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Decisions of the European Court of Justice. The decision of the European Court of Human Rights establishes that the current ban on the strike on passenger transport companies is contrary to article 11 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The project proposes to establish that transport workers are entitled to strike in general, as provided for by the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Settlement of Collective Labour Disputes. In doing so, it is suggested that it is prohibited to carry out a strike if the termination of a job poses a threat to national security. By adopting this bill, we will implement the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, remove the grounds for similar appeals to the European Court of Justice and payment of satisfaction. The bill is supported by the National Mediation and Reconciliation Service of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Mediation and Reconciliation Service, is in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and anti-corruption legislation. As a result of the discussion, the Committee recommended in 7.09.2016 a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to guarantee the implementation of the human right to strike (registration number 4639) from 11.05. 2016, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, accepted as a basis. In addition, in the drafting of the bill, the inadequacy of part three of article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on the Procedure for the Settlement of Collective Labour Disputes, adopted in 1998, was found to be in conformity with the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Emergency Regime adopted in 2000. Part of the adoption of the joint act of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u180	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u181	No strike in case of a state of emergency. Such an act is not provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine. Therefore, I propose a third section of article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Settlement of Collective Labour Disputes to bring "On the Legal Regime of Exceptional Status" into line with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine. And I would like to support the adoption of Bill 4639 on the basis of such proposals. Section I, paragraph 2, of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u182	Thank you. Just give me one more minute, please. I just want our voters to stay alive. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u183	In article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Settlement of Collective Labour Disputes, Conflicts (the "Vice of the Supreme Council"), part one of the words after the words "creates a threat" should be supplemented by the words "national security of Ukraine". The third part is as follows: "In the event of a state of emergency, strikes may be prohibited under conditions of war. Strikes are prohibited." Please support this bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, we're moving on to a bill, I'm asking you to register with the factions. And you've heard the position of the committee that proposes to vote in the first reading in the editorial paper. Please consider these suggestions during the discussion. We're doing a recording, please. From the People's Front, Igor Alexeyev. Please, Igor Alekseyev. He gives the word to a national MP. Mr. Alexei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, Leonid Jemetz, the People's Front faction, the city of Kiev. Of course, our faction will support this bill on the basis that the right to strike is indeed defined by the Constitution and is an integral right of a Ukrainian citizen. But now I would like to take this opportunity, if we're talking about human rights and citizens guaranteed and guaranteed by the Constitution, to mention that we still have a number of obligations to the Ukrainian people. For example, the right to a local referendum, directly provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine, the right of the Ukrainian local community to determine on its own how to set up its local self-government, where to build houses, which construction plan to approve, what reforms on the ground to carry out, whether to have district councils or not to have district councils. This right should be determined by a local referendum. The Constitution of Ukraine explicitly stipulates that a local referendum is one of the forms of direct citizens' will. Unfortunately, today the Ukrainian Parliament has failed to ensure this constitutional standard. Therefore, by clearly upholding the right to strike, we demand a vote in favour of the Local Referendum Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u186	Thank you. Please, from the Radical Party, the people's MP Kuprienko passes the word Lyashko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u187	Dear colleagues! Ukrainians should not only have the constitutional right to strike. The Constitution still has the right to work, to pay, to health care, to social security, but unfortunately these constitutional rights are not respected. I want to report that the authorities are now trying to limit the labour rights of citizens. A new draft of the Labour Code is being prepared for second reading. This is a completely draconian document that limits the rights of the people employed. In particular, underage children can even work at night, pregnant women, women with children, single women can work overtime without any pay for overtime. A new edition of the Labour Code cancels the payment for the work of hired workers on holidays, weekends, and nights. Essentially, the authorities are trying to limit the rights of trade unions. So this code, the Labour Code, which is supposed to protect the rights of people in employment, to be a balance between employers and people in employment, today the authorities are making an absolute contradiction to employers, restricting, dragonishly depriving people of their employment. I want to tell millions of Ukrainians that the Radical Party team is protecting the people of employment, and we will do everything we can to protect their labour rights and, above all, the right to a decent wage. That is why we strive to raise our wages radically so that people can make ends meet and feed their families.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u188	Thank you. Please, from the Opposition Block, the People's Deputy of Doubenkov. He is given the word “Jurius Pavlovenko. ” Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u189	Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine, this is a very strange practice in these walls, because there are a lot of bills with very nice names, particularly this bill that we are looking at -- "to ensure the implementation of the constitutional right to strike." But it does not fit the substance of this bill. Why? Because this bill actually proposes to limit the constitutional right to strike by the following nature: in the event of a national security threat. Many people have said that the right to strike is a constitutional right. Constitutional rights and freedoms cannot be limited except in cases established by the Constitution. And the Constitution establishes these cases. In the event of a military situation, a constitutional right to strike is restricted, particularly in the case of a constitutional right to strike. What is the purpose of this bill? In order that, without the introduction of a state of emergency or a state of war in the order defined by the Constitution, the power in force would be to "close the mouth" to those groups that do not agree with the terms or terms of collective agreements, the conditions of payment of work, using the motive "it creates a national." It's a threat to national security." I would like to point out that this does not only apply to transport companies, because it changes article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Settlement of Collective Labour Disputes, it creates a threat to people to stop work, to stop the authorities from paying attention to them, not simply by sending out electronic, written, individual, collective petitions, in order to get their attention, and to solve urgent problems, particularly the labour rights of citizens, which are limited by the bill. Thus, existing legislation provides for mechanisms in place to restrict constitutional rights. And to support this legislative initiative, I think it's wrong. There is.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u190	Thank you. Now, please, from Self-Help. National MP Natalia Wesselova. Then groups and factions that have not yet been recorded will join the discussion. Passes the word Semenhe. Please, Mr. Roman. Mr. Roman, please. Ruslan, I'm sorry, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u191	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Unit. Dear fellow citizens, the bill is really necessary, but I want to draw attention to a slightly different aspect. Two and a half years of this Parliament’s work, the second government, and this is the first bill aimed at fulfilling the commitments made by Ukraine by ratifying the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. Ukraine, unfortunately, has a sad second place in the number of decisions against Ukraine by the European Court of Human Rights. The Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe has more than 1,000 200 decisions against Ukraine on the orders of our Ukrainian citizens who are on monitoring and who are not being implemented by the State of Ukraine. This bill aims to address the problems that have arisen in the case of Benjamin Timoshenko v. Ukraine, and others in the case of strikes. At the same time, the problem raised in this bill is not fully resolved, because the issue of national security, which is really mentioned in the convention, in this bill is completely, in no way specific. Who will determine in which cases there is a threat to national security, who will apply these restrictions, is totally incomprehensible from this text of the bill. As a result, the adoption of such a restriction can be greater than what exists today. The bill should therefore be made in the first edition, but in the second edition, it should be made only after it is determined who, in what way, and in what cases it makes decisions, what is the danger of national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u192	Thank you, Your Honor. And now, please, two more speakers. From Fatherland, the national deputy of Eutuszek. And then from "The Will of the People" there's Melniczuk. Are You Already Out of Faction? Please, Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u193	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the bill provides additional grounds for banning strike. I fully agree with the "The People's Front" statement that it is at the local referendums that referendums at the national level that you can ask people to understand their position clearly. Now Fatherland has asked to conduct and ask Ukrainian citizens whether Ukrainian citizens are ready to sell agricultural land. Regrettably, the authorities do not hear and forbid us from doing so by submitting our proposal to the court. So we clearly and unequivocally testify that we have to ask the trade union explicitly, by adopting such laws, to have a discussion, only then to press the "Z" button. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u194	Please, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u195	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. The Bill 4639 is the first step towards restricting the rights of citizens with the actual laws they were. The so-called laws of January 16th. I'm surprised to hear them say, "We need to limit the rights of citizens to be called less to the European Court of Justice." So don't violate the law, the judges, the prosecutors, the authorities, don't violate citizens' rights and don't press charges! It's the usurpation of power, the limitation of citizens' rights, the violation of the Constitution. This is definitely not a vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. I ask both the Supreme Council Secretariat and the factions' heads to invite deputies to the Hall. We move on to decision-making, we take up jobs. So I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to guarantee the implementation of the human constitutional right to strike (No. 4639) on a committee proposal just on a basis, a colleague, just on a basis. All of which are suggestions and revisions, we will be able to bring them in when we consider the second reading. I'm asking you to take over the positions of fellow MPs. I'm asking you to take up jobs. And I'm putting 4639 to the vote as a basis. Every vote matters, everyone, please take part in the vote. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[17:29:50]] For 203 I'll put it back once. But in my eyes, there are MPs coming out of the hall during the vote, and that's a big surprise to me. I'm on it. The committee had been waiting too long to consider the bill. Now I'm going to make an offer to go back to his consideration. Please prepare for the vote. And I propose to go back to the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to guarantee the implementation of the human constitutional right to strike, number 4639. Please support the proposal to go back to the bill. Please vote, vote. [[17:30:51]] For 205 No votes. I'll re-commend the processing committee, I'll make an offer. To read again. Colleagues, let us go around this proposal, it will unite us all, colleagues. Colleagues, can I count on this opposition to be united? To be sent to the Committee for re-reading. Please, Dubnevich, one minute. And we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u197	Dear fellow national MPs! Well, really, it's been said that all the letters were guessed, they couldn't read. I'm talking about those who say that this bill prohibits strikes and makes it even more stringent. Well, take into account, in the preceding norm, article 18 prohibits strikes on businesses that carry passengers. And a new article 18 says that under a collective agreement, labour disputes and conflicts will be held, they have the right to strike. I'm asking you to support at least a second reading so that we can prepare this bill more clearly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u198	Thank you, colleagues. Please prepare for the vote. We're done here. All factions had the opportunity to speak. I'm going to ask you to come back, if you don't, I'm going to send it to the committee to prepare for the first reading again. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the Bill 4639. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. The committee requests that we return to its consideration. 4639. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Vote! [[17:33:20]] For 218. They didn't. They didn't convince the hall. Colleagues, for the first time again, could this be a compromise? Maybe, right? It will be supported. Then let's do it. So we can keep the bill, because we've been waiting a long time for it to be in the hall, and now we're gonna have to wait again. Let us now, I'll put to the vote the next sentence, which is set by the rules. To be sent to the Committee for Re-reading the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to guarantee the implementation of the human constitutional right to strike (No. 4639). To be sent to the Committee for re-reading. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote! Please be supportive. [[17:34:24]] For 228 Decision taken. Have some prior consultations. The second time, we'll believe, we'll be able to take the bill as a basis. So, colleagues, next in line of business. We were asked by the Committee to postpone consideration of the draft Act amending article 44 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act (5023). Mrs. Natalia, please listen to me carefully. The committee asked for a transfer, right? Are you insisting on the consideration? You're insisting on the review, aren't you? Colleagues, pay attention! Wait a minute! Mr. Spiowakovsky, Maxim Burbak and Arthur Gerasimov. Let's talk about it. Just a minute. Colleagues, pay attention! Further consultations are needed for the next bill. Please advise the committee representative so that we do not break the law. Please hold consultations now. We'll consider the next law, and then we can go back to it. Next draft of the Act amending article 80 of the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act (to determine the legal status of the National Academy of Prosecutors of Ukraine) (5226). And I'm going to vote on the motion to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. 5226 – summary procedure. Please. [[17:36:58]] For-179 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Karpuntsov Valerija Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u199	My dear fellow citizens, I am glad that the fifth time before this bill came to pass. But I'm sad that the hall is empty and probably the prospects won't be very careful. It's about the bill. On July 2, 2015, Parliament passed the Act amending the Public Prosecutor's Act. A number of novels were adopted, and great hopes were hoped for, but unfortunately this was not what was supposed to happen. And one of the novels was that they changed the status of the D.A. Academy, which means they identified the academy as a state institution and a special status that makes special preparations for candidates for the post of prosecutor, for the promotion of the qualifications of prosecutors, and noted that the National Academy of Public Prosecutions does not extend legislation on higher education. It is appropriate to obtain a licence under the Education Act for training and retraining. And since the Education Act does not extend in accordance with this law, it is impossible to take anything and it turns out that a large, rather fine material base, a large scientific base, starting with a large training base, well, it's clear that the Tyre is also in the Academy of Public Prosecutions, it's clear that the library, too, is clearly that quite a lot of conferences are being held. Sadly, though, all of this was destroyed. Thus, a number of articles are proposed in the new edition of article 80. I agree that there are rational comments and that the second reading of them, in principle, could be corrected. But please support the legislative initiative and also the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u200	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement Activities, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u201	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! A law enforcement committee has prepared a draft Ukrainian law amending article 80 of the Pro Prosecutor's Office Act (to determine the legal status of the National Academy of Prosecutors of Ukraine). It's a simple bill. This project proposes a new edition of article 80 of the Ukrainian Procuratorship Act with the aim of removing a number of existing colleges. It is proposed that the National Academy of Public Prosecutions be made a higher educational institution, which extends the provisions of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, to grant the Attorney General the right to appoint a Rector of the Academy. According to the Rector, the statute, structure, and size of the academy are approved. After an analysis of the project, members of the committee noted that in view of the Academy of the Prosecutor’s Office’s educational activities, such as the promotion of the qualifications of prosecutors, the special training of candidates for the post of prosecutor, there was a need for legislation on higher education to be extended to its activities. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. In view of the committee’s presentation, the decision was taken to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and as a whole, but if the Chamber decided to take it first without its adoption as a whole, in principle the committee would not object. Although the bill is not so complicated, I feel that it can be accepted as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u202	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. [[Noise Nodes]] Guys, we're gonna have to put the deputies to a vote. So you are. Ichchenko is handing John Kirilenko over to him. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u203	Dear colleagues! Ivan Kirilenko, "Fatherland" faction. As a representative of the Committee on Education and Science, I can only welcome the creation of this structure. All you have to do is say hello, because the biggest disaster in the state that is today is the lack of high professionalism in teams that often change. And it has a huge impact on the quality of government. So any educational institution that's being created, and there are professionals in the department, in the direction of the work, that's just welcome. So the faction will support this bill in the first reading, if they now support it in general, we will support it as a whole. And we welcome the creation of a new school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u204	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk. Colleagues, maybe one minute? No, right? Two minutes, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u205	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party We will support this bill, but I would now like to draw the attention of the entire Ukrainian society, the entire Ukrainian nation, to an event that happened a few days ago, and to our firm belief, it will have extremely severe consequences. Why I'm talking right now, because it's about both fucking and the courts. This is an excuse for the minister of the coal industry called LNR and the mayor of the former town of Stahanov Borisov, who organized a referendum, which, completely all the evidence, is video, are documents, have not called witnesses, have not summoned Sergey Shahov, a national deputy who is a witness, Oleg Layashka, who is a witness, have not called me. Secretly, they were released at night. Do you know why? I'm going to open a key secret. Because Borisov refused to testify against Ephraim because he failed to confirm in court the testimony he had given in the previous investigation, and this became the basis for the trial. So the faction of the Radical Party and all the other colleagues, I call on the Attorney General not only to press charges, but the Prosecutor's Office has already stated the decision, but to bring criminal responsibility to the judge who passed the decision. And as a member of the High Council of Justice, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko has to raise the question of the removal of this judge to her prison.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u206	From Peter Dustenka's Block, Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u207	The great fellow countrymen, dear colleagues, of course, this bill should be supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to really get a legitimate body with a status that would not just eat money, but also raise, teach a new generation of progressive, law-abiding and, attention, apolitical prosecutors to teach them there, that it would never be possible for the prosecution to form a quota principle so that several faction leaders, several of their sponsors, and individual oligarchs today sponsor two factions at once, one faction of the cattleman, and the other, formerly called the Front of Change, are funded by Rinath Ahmetov, and then appointed the procurators-general to protect their leaders from the law. This must be a clear position for the future for the country. In particular, I would like to state that the only solution for the Attorney General's Office will be the scenario when the people of Ukraine choose the Attorney General. When the Attorney General is not assigned to baths and restaurants, not to interfractional easters, but to a mere average Ukrainian, the man of work will appoint a leader to open the front of the fight against the various oligarchic poles and the cattlemen who support these oligarchic rods. This is the only scenario in which our country will be able to conquer corruption in a country in which our new state will begin. Otherwise, you'll always have a mob that will run from the oligarchic offices and an obituary that's going to scream here on behalf of Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u208	Markevich Jaroslav Volodymyrovich. Olena Stonik, please give me the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u209	Captain, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u210	Thank you. You know, this bill is a great example of how "sauce" doesn't release this hall and the Attorney General's Office, including. The only good thing that's left of the reform of the prosecutor's office was that we cleaned up the elite organ, I can say without too much, it was an elite closed body where people got big money and then became so-called prosecutors. Through the reform of the prosecutor’s office, we cleaned up this elite body. And today's legal profession is the only legal profession, and any lawyer, any lawyer, if he adheres to the criteria laid down in the law, he has a chance to go to the prosecutor's office even under the conditions that these competitions are now completely closed, absolutely regulated. What we are offered today is offered to return to the owl. But even more so, the Attorney General is not at peace with higher education, legal higher education. If last time, even though we did not have the appointment of a Rector, this law now proposes that the Attorney General appoint a Rector. I'm sorry, but I think it's probably already crossed any boundaries of the smart one. Because first of all, you're completely destroying the autonomy of university education. Second, you're going back to an elite prosecutor's office. And thirdly, it's nothing more than actually corruption risks when people in a closed system are completely alone to prepare the whole system of new prosecutors and never, ever, this system will have a chance of changing and reforming. And the last. You recently applauded reforms, judicial reform. Judicial reform provides the only standard for the legal profession. Do not destroy the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u211	From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, the People's Front will support this bill. And I think we can vote for it as a whole right now. But I wanted to point out here that there was a flaming performance of "young Lenin" here telling us under a Moscow pipe that someone was supposedly funding something. So this is Lewochkina's dog, who's funded, who doesn't want to fake his cashiers for selling narcotic drugs in Poltava. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I think my colleague Mosiyczuk is better acquainted with these Poltava realities, where the associates of this disgraceful Lenina take bribes to sell drugs in pharmacies.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u213	So, colleagues, in a minute we're going to make a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] No offense! [[B in m in s a l in]] There was no offense. Colleagues! We're about to shut down the legislative process. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay! Please, one minute, Mosiyczuk. One minute. And please come into the hall. Colleagues. Calm down, calm down, colleagues, I'll give you my word. [[B in m in s a l in]] We just had a chance to look at something else. Another bill. If everyone demands a word, we just can't get to the next bill. I'll give everyone a word who hasn't spoken yet. Please, Mosiyczuk, one minute, then Papiev, then Melniczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u214	Of course, I listened to Charlie Marlin and all the intercoms. But the question is in another, the question is painful for me and for the entire region of Poltava. They destroyed Poltavafarm, then bribed the police. The policeman proved to be a decent man. There's a hat on the thieves right now. Look who's wearing a hat in the hall right now. They were bribed, detained at the crime scene, detained. And then they ran, and they tried. And now they're talking about ordinary people and things like that. Calm down! Stop robbing Poltavian peasants on drugs, stop it!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u215	Papiev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u216	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, well, the high level of discussion we now see in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it is bad that the chairman does not comply with the Rules, because none of the Ukrainian national deputies who would speak in essence of the bill that has been passed has ever been heard. I would like to remind you, in general, part two of article 84 of the Constitution of Ukraine, that decisions are taken in plenary sessions only in plenary sessions. What's going on now? In fact, we now have an extension of the morning session that is contrary to part three of article 19 of the Rules. Actually, we're making some decisions, and today we don't know the status at all. And who changed the calendar plan voted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is unknown. I would like, and the faction of the Opposition Block, to prepare an appropriate appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to explain to us, on the basis of the Constitution and the law, what is happening now: whether the plenary meeting or the assembly of the Ukrainian National Deputies, and what is the status of the bills that have been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u217	It's so sweet and ridiculous when you accuse other MPs of speaking out of context, and you're talking nonsense right now. It takes a little bit of a logically-effectual relationship. Please, Sergey Melniczuk. And let's go to the vote. Please, one minute, Melniczuk, and then another minute, Siroid. Two minutes later, the decision is made. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u218	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. This bill actually gives us back the power of the old prosecutor's office, the usurpation of a so-called separate republic. This bill needs to be broken down and not usurped by the procurator's authority, which actually buys factions, whole factions in this Parliament, releases deputies, releases entire groups of criminals who sit here. Therefore, this bill does not need to be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u219	Oksana Siroid, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, I don't think you'll be surprised by fooling people in this room. But when you first talk to everyone about how judicial reform is being implemented, and at the same time you're not just destroying the same changes to the Constitution that you've adopted, you've actually destroyed the law for the benefit of one person, you've already destroyed it. Even the progress made in the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office. You've led the Attorney General out of law at all. You brought him out of the Constitution. And today you want to destroy what you're doing. Maybe that's your goal, I don't know. But don't tell people more about judicial reform, because there's no such thing as a public prosecutor's office, no special education for the prosecutor's office, and there are three legal professions that have to be prepared for one system.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u221	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u222	A lawyer, a prosecutor and a judge. If you want to continue raising Soviet prosecutors, do not lie to people about judicial reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Okay, I'll give the bill a minute. There'll be a vote in a minute. Heads of factions of the Supreme Council Secretariat, please invite deputies to the Hall. Please, Karpuntsov, 1 minute, and let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, I am grateful to all those who spoke in substance of the bill, and I am grateful to all those who support it. Thank you so much for your support. Regrettably, he was also grateful for the opposition to criticism, but unfortunately it was not. They've rewarded everything, and I know it's the only place they haven't won: politics, the prosecutor. All except that here under the law you need to obtain licensed certificates. We can't get them, the academy can't get them. Then give this right to obey the law. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-06-m0.u225	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on a bill amending article 80 of the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act (determining the legal status of the National Academy of Prosecutors of Ukraine), number 5226. As the committee head suggested, first on the basis. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote for base 5226. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:57:15.]] For 175 Colleagues, me. Can we get together in a position to put him on the committee for work? I'll make all the proposals under the Rules. Colleagues, so that we can have a discussion, I'm putting the next motion to vote. To send the draft Act amending article 80 of the Ukrainian Procuratorship Act to the Committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. Please vote. Please be supportive. On rereading 5226. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. [[17:58:07]] For 168 I put to the vote the last sentence: to direct the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. Let's save the bill. I'm asking you to support the offer. Draft Act on Amendments to Article 80 of the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act (for the determination of the legal status of the National Academy of Prosecutors of Ukraine) (No. 5226) Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:58:56]] For-170. The decision is not taken. Draft Law 5226 has been rejected. I'm so sorry. We had the next bill, which was unifying; we simply couldn’t reach it because it was political instead of professional discussion in the hall, unfortunately. Dear colleagues, I'm not going to continue this session for six o'clock. And so we had a hard but fruitful day today. And I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. It was a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for those who did not fully understand the principles of the Council’s work. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock, we'll continue our work. I remind you, as always, on Wednesday the first questions will be the ratification issue. And I invite all the deputies tomorrow at 10 a.m. to continue our work with discipline. Thank you. Good-bye.
